ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In front of you is the draft final draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. And let me just say a few words. This is about intervention in three articles. The fact is that in April of this year we adopted amendments to the agricultural land law and that the intensity of these changes and additions was to speed up the process of availability of agricultural land, to establish the additional criteria contained in the strategic provisions for the development of agriculture for the next period, and to see in total one of the essential factors of further structuring both the agricultural holding and further development of agriculture is also the issue of resolving agricultural land. In the meantime, it happened that in Article 54, if I am not mistaken, Article 54 provided that units of local self-government are obliged to make available within 2 months. Meanwhile, just when the law was published, it came to pass that the representative bodies of the local self-government units were disbanded and that local elections and the period of constitution. For these reasons, and respecting that fact, we suggest that this part of the article 54 be replaced and that instead of 2 months from the entry into force of this Act, it should be replaced by words until 30 September 2005. So, by respecting the facts that have taken place and yet wishing to speed up the implementation of the law, we are determined in front of the Ministry for the determination of the deadline by 30 September 2005. The other two interventions are carried out in Articles 26a and 33a, relating to the establishment and borrowing of a competent tax administration to determine the initial prices for sale and for the lease of agricultural land. Why? We have reason not to have any manipulations that tax administrations in the best, best-quality way, and there should be also institutions that should determine the initial prices, both for the lease and for the sale of agricultural land. Here, dear ladies and gentlemen, these are, I would say certain interventions in the Law on Agricultural Land that should go in the direction of more successful implementation of both the law and resolving issues, availability and sale of agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41368	Thank you very much. Agriculture and forestry committees, local and regional self-government? Legislative? I'm opening a debate. HNS-PGS representative Zeljko Kurtov's club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41369	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Only this supplement, in fact, the Law with these points will really maybe contribute to this law going on because he hasn't done it so far. But I didn't answer that much for it, but I answered because we have problems in the field that we won't solve with these extra points. Mr. Minister, we have a situation on the ground that the availability of agricultural land is unable to be made, the municipalities have not created a programme or have not been accepted by the Ministry. And followers of former companies, i.e. tycoons plant permanent plantations, meaning vineyards and land on which they have no right. I addressed the inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Agriculture, and I was only told that they were not working under the law, and there is a point. However, what happens in practice. If we have a board of 90, 100 acres of land, the tycoon plant 20 acres of vineyards, since the tables are not allowed to be split, he actually concreted to himself the complete board that he would receive, buy or rent. The intensity of this Law was to farmers, i.e. to the peasants that the country would make a production that would rest in the Republic of Croatia in agricultural households and families. However, with implementation until now, how this Law is implemented does not lead to this and especially now this provision when municipalities can no longer create a programme, i.e. they are unable or not wanted, it is taken over by the county, now the responsibility will especially be di in municipalities, smaller municipalities where the possibility or pressure or corruption is greater that this responsibility will be transferred to the county so that the local community, i.e. The municipalities won't be able to reach out, the peasants directly as municipalities but will be transferred to the county, which I think will complicate further this situation. I warn that either the Ministry makes one commission that will go on the ground, which will hold talks before the mayors of municipalities and farmers at least those who are enrolled in the register and craftsmen because there is and there is already a great manipulation on the ground. I don't think that's our goal either, this Ministry or this government, and neither the Croatian state as a whole, so I expect you, Mr. Minister, to personally advocate this issue, and that's the only reason I've come forward for this point, because this one, just the addition of this one, really, is for the purpose of working at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41370	Thank you very much. HDZ club, respected representative Vladimir Kurecic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41371	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Agricultural land is without a doubt one of the biggest treasures of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament adopted legal regulations to protect and regulate the use of agricultural land. Since 2001, smaller changes and since 2002, the law defines agricultural land as good of interest for the Republic of Croatia. It is defined as being considered agricultural land, regulating the protection of agricultural land, the use as well as the change in the purpose of agricultural land. The above-mentioned legal decisions determines how agricultural land is made available in the possession of the country of sale, lease and concession for use. Further allocation of funds obtained after the aforementioned legal actions. It is also obliged by local self-government units to adopt a country-owned agricultural land management programme, which is the basis for a public tender, in line with the agricultural land management strategy owned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The same law lays down the activities of the control of agricultural inspection in that area as well as the criminal provisions. My colleagues and colleagues, the amendments and additions to the Law of Spring this year have improved some of the provisions before, such as the possibility of renting up to 3 years of unprocessed farmland in private and state-owned property, which has been granted by local self-government units. That provision, however, is very rarely used, unfortunately. In addition, the most recent changes are professional transactions related to the sale and lease of agricultural land owned by the State of the county offices, i.e. the offices of the state administration shall be moved to the administrative bodies of the municipalities or cities. Furthermore, on the scale of the purchase and lease of state agricultural land, family farms are put first in the register of taxpayers of income tax, whose agriculture is basic activity and agricultural crafts, and the situation is regulated in the same order of primary purchase and lease rights, where the former tenant who meets the contractual obligations, the owner or the tenant of the neighbour, the Croatian defender, the owner of the built-in production facility, farms and the like has the advantage. The person who deals with livestock, multi-year crops or vegetable production shall all accept the highest price offered. In addition, an economic programme for the use of agricultural land as an integral part of the contract is required, so that, if it is not implemented, a contract for the lease of state agricultural land is terminated. The above-mentioned amendments to the laws are similarly regulated and granted to the state agricultural land in the concession. In order to make the process available i.e. The use of State agricultural land was as efficient and fairer units of local self-government as possible, according to the strategy, to adopt a programme of availability to state agricultural land for its area in which it should be: the total area of land in the area concerned, the data on present availability, the area determined for return, as well as the area specified for sale, concession or lease. Prior to the adoption of the programme, local self-government units were unable and unable to dispose of state agricultural land i.e. I can't run the contests. As the following provisions did not lay down deadlines in which units of local self-government must develop their own programmes, and as regards the implementation of the law, some have been tapped into place because of inert and ineffectiveness, and some of them because of the interest of retaining the status quo, amending and supplementing the laws of spring this year, they have given a period of two months from the entry into force of the amendments within which municipal and city councils must adopt their programmes at the disposal of state agricultural land and, if they do not, the programme will bring the County chapter to... The area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the same with the call for tenders based on the approved programme, so a two-month deadline. These changes were intended to encourage units of local self-government to complete business within a short time period of 2 plus 2 months and to complete the state agricultural land by buying or rent in the hands of those with which the table would be spoken by God and the law and should be completed. And these are Croatian peasants, so our agricultural producers. However, local elections took place shortly after the adoption of the laws and deadlines mentioned, so as the constitution of authorities takes place in some areas and lasts, it is clear that from 2 plus 2 months, nothing can happen. Therefore, it is in the interest to propose a business with the state-owned agricultural land as soon as possible to complete these changes and additions to the deadline of 30 September 2005 in which units of local self-government must adopt programmes for state-owned agricultural land and, after agreement, to open tenders within 2 months, and if they do not, they will do so by the county headship. By the way, I'm asking the Proposer to consider, until these amendments are adopted, whether deadlines should be set here as well. How once again, after a few months, it wouldn't tap into the place this time waiting for the county heads. It is also proposed to return to the jurisdiction of the tax administration which determines the initial price in the tender for the sale and lease of state agricultural land in the area where the land is located. And what authority of the tax administration on the heart should not have been abolished. In short, the Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that the proposed amendments and additions are justified, that they will contribute to the effectiveness of the law, that this saga on state agricultural land will be able to bring an end to that. that quick and easy to reach state agricultural land will come those who live on land, with land and on that land, so we will amend these and supplement the law by emergency procedure and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41372	Thank you very much. The HSS Club. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41373	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. So I think we should say a few sentences about this law but very principled nature, given that the law consists of 3 articles. None of these articles are asked. We all know that all these three articles need to be put into law but the principle question is raised: why did this not happen in April of the month when this law was before the Croatian Parliament but it seems two months later, three months later, and we all know that the ministry, the representatives of the ministry, were clearly warned about it. We can recall that some of the representatives in the debate said that the 60 - day deadline was inconclusive, that it should be moved as an article 3 in this section relating to the shift in section to September 30. So for me, it's just a matter of principle. Which is why this Parliament is being brought into a position to be underestimated in some way, to be and to serve for the corrections of the homework of those who are unable to do in that part of the law that should be written in it. If it's not Mr. Minister's fault, if it's his associates' fault, then it should be made clear that if these people don't put such things into law they can't do part of their job, because now it's happened that three months after this law, nothing could be done because no one could set the starting price because there was no one who was in charge. If it hadn't been known, if it hadn't been written in that previous law then it would have been said, let's say some mistake can be stolen so it can be interpreted this way when something is left out and the work of the law really makes it impossible to imagine. Perhaps this and the opportunity to say a few sentences today related to the very implementation of this law and to what we talked about in April. I think it's good to visit today that the whole issue of agricultural land is an important issue, but unfortunately the question that is standing on the side, it's not solved, many tenders are almost standing in the ministry, it's not coming, I'd say in resolution as if I could even say that it was understandable before the elections we didn't have municipal, city councils, people didn't get into certain things, but given that we're getting ready all together for the European Union, I think that the urgency of this overall process and the resolution of state agricultural land is extremely important. I believe that now that these changes have been made, we will certainly be able to speed up this process, but he has not gone in a satisfactory way yet, but I honestly believe that it will be better. Thank you very much. The HSS will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41374	Thank you very much. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41375	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. This is obviously one harmonisation of the law that should allow for the implementation of the basic law. But here, I put a few other dilemmas that affect law enforcement, which do not depend solely on where we see that there were some obstacles, which is, for example, the representative bodies of the local self-government unit. Here, first of all, we transfer some of our responsibility to the state. However, I have to conclude with dissatisfaction that the state has not functioned effectively so far as certain or most representative bodies of local self-government units have functioned. So here it is very unequivocally said that the representative body of the local self-government unit must adopt a programme of agricultural land by September 30th. There are many units of local self-government that have done this. We didn't hear it here, and it might be good for the minister to hear that they didn't do it and why they didn't do it, because they were bound by basic law to do it. However, what and when units of local self-government bring a programme to agricultural land, they send it to the ministry for consent and then the administration shuts up for years and then the programme is in the ministry for a year or two days and in no way the units of local self-government can get consent to it, not that they can't get consent but they don't know if it's good at all, whether it needs to be complemented, changed or done, and all that time the state land is illegally used. Someone's making incomes and offerings from that land. The state and units of local self-government do not realise the lease or price they would receive from the base of sales, and those who expect to buy or rent that land cannot enter the property. So it would be good to supplement this law in a way that says ok. When the representative body of the local self-government unit adopts a land-based programme, the ministry shall be required within a month or two to manifest itself on the proposal. The problem doesn't stop when the ministry is showing up on that proposal, and I have to realize it's slow. Not only since you're a minister, it's even since your predecessor was a minister, that segment is obviously slow enough to slow down all these processes, but after that you have to get more when you're done, when you conduct the competition you have to get the consent of the ministry to decide who's going to buy or rent that land. Well, now I come from a local self-government unit that requested a year and a half ago consent to such a decision. In a year and a half, four times we've sent an emergency room to let the ministry know if the decision is right, whether the competition is good, not good, what we should do. In a year and a half, the Ministry has been silent. The land is used. Someone unauthorizedly uses that land, which apparently has some profit or income and makes a contribution to it, and everyone else loses. He loses the state, loses the city, loses the county and loses those who went to the competition to rent that land. So here we say units of local self-government have to do something right up until that moment, and then we transfer it to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, or the department's department's department's competent portfolio, can keep it somewhere in the drawer for years. Even when you get consent to the choice decision, the question arises how to remove the existing land user and enable whoever came, who got that country, bought or rented it, how to allow him to use that land. You also have examples on the ground where practically almost conflict with tractors who will plow the land because someone thinks they have an unlimited right to use that land, and according to the land availability programme and their procedures, someone else should be able to use that land. So it's not just a problem if units, representative bodies of local self-government units will bring plans by September 30th, the law enforcement problem is much deeper, much more complex and not just dependent on local self-government units. And since incomes are shared, then I think there should also be a common interest in the ministry and local self-government units to make this process as short and as efficient as possible. If there are problems with the documentation in the implementation, in the process, someone should react without delay and request that it be amended and completed. But it's inadmissible that the program stands for a year in someone's drawer, that consent to a decision stands for a year in someone's drawer, and that someone plows, sows, and reaps culture from that country. The second thing you'd like to mention here, it's just as much a question of the IRS. We define here that the initial price determines the IRS. I am of the opinion that the initial price should be established by the representative, i.e. the executive body of the unit of local self-government and that this initial price cannot be lower than that established by the Tax Administration. For two reasons. Since the tax administration does not determine the market price of a land, it does not have a mechanism to determine the price of a land, it determines the static method of historical analysis. Therefore, it takes several contracts concluded on the purchase of land in the area and sets the average price and finds that the average price is actually a market price, which does not correspond to what this Law says, that the tax administration determines the market price of land. Finally, the market price will be determined at the end of the tender when the amount of someone willing to pay and the market determines the market price. But here, therefore, the way in which this initial price is determined should be defined, I think that the headship of local self-government units has a better picture of how much the market price or the assumed market price of land is in some area and that the assumed market price cannot be less than the assessment of the tax administration. So, the tax administration says ok it costs x kuna and the head office says we don't think it costs x + 10, and then the starting price x + 10, and it's going to be paid as much as it gets in the competition, but if this country is sold at the starting price defined by the tax administration and it's lower than something that's really marketable, then it's at the loss of both state and unit local self-government because there can be a situation that only one bidder can report. And the same problem here is that there is no time limit for the tax administration to set the market price, so you do not have a time limit for the tax administration to, for example, within 7 days, 10, 30 days have to supply market price data and others, that it must provide arguments on the basis of which it has determined the market price of the land to be leased or sold. So some mechanisms that we don't need to be familiar with tax administration estimates that they are. I'm talking here about a situation where the state and units of local self-government are losing because that call market price can be lower as it is ultimately realized on this, but it can also be vice versa that this price is higher than anyone's willing to offer because the tax administration has estimated that it could get more for it. Therefore, I urge the applicant to set for itself the deadlines in which it must respond to what the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government do and others to determine the mechanism by which that initial price will be determined and set a deadline for the tax administration in which the tax administration will deliver that market price to the unit headship of the local self-government which will then open the tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41376	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, Replica, Honored Representative Bozidar Pankretić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41377	Well, I wanted to replicate my colleagues for the simple reason he spoke at this price. This price initial price has existed in the law since the beginning and there has been a lot of reflection on how to set that price and decided to go towards the tax administration. I have to say that this cooperation with the tax administration before and now it's been good and this is not a problem with time, delivery in this part, but I think that if it were to go, that the local self-government unit that's calling the tender determines the initial price, I'm honestly afraid that wouldn't be the best method. However, when you mentioned a colleague Mršić in this section to carry out a particular combination so that the tax administration, with a certain part of the unit of local self-government, is in line with that part, I think it can be considered, but I assure you that the tax administration has so far, at least from the experience that I have correctly done that part of the initial price, and in the most part it has always been only the initial price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41378	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41379	Well, fellow Pankretic, I don't know how many programs you've written and spent, I'm speaking on this other side, the problems local self-government units face when they communicate with the tax administration and the ministries. I therefore very specifically suggested that the responsibility for tendering, i.e. for managing state-owned land, should be fully borne by the units of local self-government, i.e. the representative body or the headship that the headship should also be able to fix the initial price. I said that this initial price should not be less than what the tax administration determines, so it can be equal or higher because I think that the headship better judge market relations in a particular area, than the tax administration that I repeat, it does so on the basis of the static method of analysis of historical contracts. So, the analysis of the contracts made up in the past tense but that's the least of the problems I've ever been talking about, I think the much bigger problem with these deadlines being broken by the ministry. The problem is that the tax administration sometimes doesn't really do it within a time limit that's inappropriate, but that deadline is at something longer, because for example now it's going to be a vacation, which if someone has made a request today for a starting price, people from the tax administration have gone on an annual basis and will give a price 1. Nine. So, two months won't get that starting price, so I think we should set those deadlines as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41380	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, he has no right to speak. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41381	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored Ministers with Associates, Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives. Here's an opportunity to really remind ourselves that this isn't the first case that we're missing something out of the law, so we're putting in despite the warning that it should be, but here it happens and it's good to feel that it's a problem, the dysfunction that it needs to be solved. In principle about these two articles I am talking about where the tax administration must actually be authorised to give a starting price, whether it is still rising or not is the issue of the competition itself. However, the deadlines we set I am in this House, I think this is the fourth deadline that we extend where we are even under the threat of disbanding the local community, so the representative bodies informed that the programme must be implemented within 2 years, that it is an obligation etc. Now we're talking some kind of still September deadline, that's the last deadline. Mr. Minister, I assure you that the deadline does not exist because we are relegating the jurisdiction of more instance, it is the county headship that does not have to bring the same programme because nothing is happening to him, and I believe that this county headship of any, any one, makes it easier to do what it is to resent if it is not a local community that could cooperate with you, and you are one of the brakes and it is responsiblely claimed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, your land department that intervenes in the intervention after a year makes it a good thing and after that year nothing has been solved because and when the programme is brought forward, and when the competitions are disbursed when they cancel or accept it, whoever owns the land he does not own it, but according to your instructions our chiefs still leave the owner for a single vegettarian year to use, rave that same country that he did not acquire it, that he never acquired it, that he never got the property of the property of the other country, and that he could be in fact. We're not talking about millions, we're not talking about what we don't know, it's about some 3,000 households we're going to create, and I'm sure this isn't the law that makes Croatian agriculture d would be competitive with Europe because the second segment that we're not talking about is a circle of private property in a way that the private country begins to collapse, that it starts to create larger family households because of the incentive system, etc. We didn't leave the dead end because we didn't dare. ... If the government had taken a bite, I repeat it for the tenth time, this acid apple, and now we are obstructing it in all ways to make some of it happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I assure you that the family household that would be created and waiting for only that state country train to go to the European Union, we are not in Europe with that country. That's why he needs all the other processes. And that process that started, we're talking about the cattle program, about the permanent plantations, about the rural development that we could expect progress from, and that one boom in the country is no longer in your ministry because you saw the resources left in the end. You and I can only dream of some other programs and out of a thousand and 200 farms, Mr. Minister, you and I must be witnesses if it's ten per cent, it's yours and all of us making great progress because I'm guessing your officers are telling you that there's a thousand and one problem on the ground. And Hamag doesn't help either, the HBOR doesn't help, nobody does, because if we put him in debt like we do, here's how we do it. I'm reading just one of our very agricultural economists where they say the way we approve of the loans, and how we owe the peasants doesn't guarantee that they can survive because we haven't made an agrarian bank, we haven't come up with any favourable loans, so there won't be anything out of this together. So these cosmetic changes actually don't change anything because we didn't actually get into the problem of how to deposit a previous owner and allow the local community to have it available but really has it in one time if it's now September 30th, so let the head office have until the end of the year, county head office. After that there is no more new vegetative season, let's go to land availability, public tenders or rent or purchase. The concession to be realized would not speak of it, I hear various stories in a way that is closer to the roasting is better heated but it's already our old paining functioning system that simply doesn't deal with that problem, the life problem that peasants expect. I repeat, and now that it is not necessary to deploy large parcels, that we have a model of how to keep the peasants in one part, means the plot to remain intact and that he only has his part on this ship and even the program should be the one that doesn't allow him to split it, that the bounds come true, etc. But I'm asking you who's helping these peasants, who's going out in the field and who's actually giving them the opportunity. If I can speak responsibly now to the ministry that doesn't give consent, which it simply finds, again I speak, a thousand and one regret, and only so that the programme can't be passed without the former owner still rapping the country, then I ask you when that peasant gets to that country. And that's why I'd really like to have a good intention, but Mr. Mršić already said, let's set deadlines for everyone, everyone. That within six months the ministry must be manifested and not manifested because someone liked it that the county headship had three months after these two months or three that we are now giving in the transitional period to the local administration units must bring. Let's all be responsible to see if since the New Year's Eve we have to turn a new page and say if we've given, sold, or whether, I say, if then I think the country's been put into operation because I have to, here's the latest data saying that in Croatia about a million hectares is not being processed. Mr. Minister, statistics speak, a million acres. I'm asking now why it's not being processed. Because agricultural policy is economically profitable, because it is the kind of extra profit it makes, because permanent plantations must reach the maximum we need during this medium-term, that we think we have enough milk to raise beef production with this program. I'm sure these programs and for land, but also for the sake of the whole policy that's going on right now are unattainable and are actually a dead letter on paper because one move of brushes or pencils erases some hope of the one that starts with a particular program and then simply stops it, and it can't go any further. These changes and additions are necessary, far from that, but it would be good to assign your intervention to the county headship as well as to the ministry when it should be given its programme. I know how that office worked for the former government. Now I've rarely been, like, a dozen times, but the same impenetrable wall that was before, we simply said, we've come to realize that this team needs to be strengthened, that it needs to be given logistics so that it can be expeditious and at the service of the peasants. I don't know why it's not done. Whether it's a targeted obstruction or not, and then from a policy like this where we said that the family household is imperative will certainly be nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41382	Thank you. Honorable representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41383	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Well, it's unquestionable that every time we talk about agricultural land, there's a considerable interest in both us here in the assembly and in the general public, especially those who are fatally interested in the country, so our farmers. Here, two months ago we passed or two-and-a-half months ago we passed a law which, again, I'm sure I'm changing for objective reasons, and then we said that deadlines were too ambitious and that all those activities that happened in local self-government units were to be taken into account, from the elections, so the constitution of new representative and executive bodies until the season of vacations. All right. Today is a chance to fix these amendments and amendments to the deadlines and to define more precisely the obligations of everyone in the chain. My predecessors have already said a lot, and most of them I agree with them. In general, I think that it is not only a matter of legislation but of what is a cancer wound in many segments and so on. It is about the operationalisation or implementation of legal solutions and the tenacity and tenacity of those in charge of monitoring that we really come to the final goal of the one we have laid down by the laws themselves. But I'm afraid that these amendments to the law will again satisfy the form, not the content, that once again only a picture of the fluid is created that something is happening in agriculture, that there is constant concern and that again because of the indetermination, and above all I think about the uncertainty of the deadlines and obligations of all in the chain, nothing more important will happen. All of us, especially in the units of local self-government, are dissatisfied with the slow implementation of this great problem, but I would also say a significant resource of Croatia. I'd like to hear for myself, Mr. Minister, how many programs have not been implemented so far and in what environments. On the other hand, you also hear the answer, which is why those programs you bring in are not able to be realized. It is not enough just to prescribe the responsibility and obligations of the local self-government units, but of everyone in the chain. In this case and tax administrations to give a price-limit, county heads to replace what the representative bodies of the local self-government units missed, although I will repeat there is no great logic that the county heads are replacing the representative bodies of the local self-government units, we talked about this in the adoption of this Act. I appreciate your judgment that there will be programs sooner. But, I say, in the area of Brod-Posavina County all 28 units of local self-government brought in even 2.5, 3 years ago a programme of agricultural land, but unfortunately we did not reach that final goal,... there are those who will draw the maximum out of it, whether through lease or through sale, which is the intensity of the law and are also not the concessions solved to that extent and in the way that it is objectively necessary and how it can be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this time, I will express my dissatisfaction with the slowness, the primary dissatisfaction with your ministry's slowness, Mr. Minister. And I think there's a lot we should change on that trail. I know that the big problem is that three times the Ministry has to be manifested, first it has to give consent to the available program, and then it has to give consent to the competition, and then it has to give consent to the contracts. If 550 units of local self-government are not difficult to calculate how many times the ministry needs to be manifested and obviously the lack of people in your ministry or something else, I don't know, you'll probably answer Mr. Minister for the reason why even at the state level don't solve faster problems and then we have a reflection to the last one. Furthermore, I think there's another problem that we can only discuss at the same time today. These days, we've been making budget rebalances, and then we've all been witnesses to a change in agricultural land being reduced. A large part, especially in Slavonia, is land that is not put into operation and is not possible to put it in full function for reasons of non-editious land books, catastras and what is happening, it is the third state on the ground. Only in the area of Brod-Posavina County is 10 thousand hectares waiting to be provided primarily at the state level of quality means so that this land, this land, very high quality land, could be placed in full terms of words in function, as far as I know, a programme of availability and these units of local self-government, most of that land is intended for sale. According to the information I have, there are about 42,000 hectares in the Brod-Posavina County alone. Of which, only 10%, 4000, 4200 hectares were agreed by your ministry and all other units are waiting for you to get your readings, i.e. to be in a position to realize the program. And in the end, it's unquestionable, I'll support this, these amendments to the law. Once again stressing the need to define the deadlines, to bind everything in the chain of tax administrations, units of local self-government, heads of the ministry, because it would not be good if we were to make a decision here or I don't know that the ministry shares the fate of what we had in the previous law unless the units of local self-government made available to disband representative bodies. It would not be good to say that if the minister fails to comply with the obligation, that is, the ministry must resign within 6 months. There are more important things that probably need to be sanctioned by the minister or the ministry. But in any case, I appeal, therefore, that the deadlines are very precise and that this whole procedure is accelerated and that, in the context of the overall development of agricultural, or agricultural development strategy, agriculture in general, we come up with a common solution that will satisfy primarily all those who live in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41384	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41385	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Well, I personally advocate, too, the IDS Club for the sale of agricultural land because we are aware that without rounding up agricultural property there cannot be and will not be a development of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. The average property in the Republic of Croatia is not enough 2.8 hectares. In the European Union it is 20 hectares and it is clear that without possession of such size or approximately such size, the Republic of Croatia or the Croatian peasant will be relatively uncompetitive. At this point, it means with all these big supermarkets, insufficient Croatian agricultural industry, huge imports, annually exports between billions and half of dollars of agricultural goods, Croatian agricultural, Croatian agriculture has no chance. It should also be noted, however, that over the past 15 years, the trade deficit of the Republic of Croatia has reached $60 billion and some $10 billion in agriculture. So a farmer needs to be helped and one of the mechanisms to help him can be this Agricultural Land Act. So through the form of sales, that is, through the law institute. However, the last time IDS also warned, the IDS Club was voting against the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land because we are afraid that these institutes may be completely sold out of agricultural land. Then last time threatened and threatened and now to take all agricultural land and I want first of all to apostrophe opportunities in Istria,... Why do you step in, under the quotes of "agricultural" and that individuals get very rich. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it threatened and threatened that after the conversion, after privatizing what we called the robbery of the century to happen another robbery might now be worse than the robbery in conversion and privatisation. In this legal solution, however, there is one fuse under the quotes that is the market price. Let me try to explain why Istra gentlemen is so sensitive. While in Croatia you have between 7% and 8% of the agricultural land owned by the state in Istria is between 30% and 50%. For example in the area of Bujština, Buje, Umag, Novigrad etc. You have almost 50% of the land owned by the state. Why is that? How did that happen? Well, it happened because of the great exudus that hit Istria after II. World War I. It is estimated that the premises of Istria plus Cres, Opatija, Lošinj have left about 140 thousand people, the moss of the Italian population, the territory of Croatia about 186,000 people, the ex-Yugoslavia area of about 220 thousand people. Now after them are respected gentlemen left a large number of agricultural holdings which are due to options, and the option is to keep citizenship by changing the place of residence means the option is also synonym for paying off the war damage of the Republic of Italy, ex Yugoslavia through exactly that agricultural goods. It is clear that today those surrounded have nothing to ask of Zagreb or Ljubljana when war damage is due not, uh, when that fee for their property is already due exclusively to Rome. So these well-respected gentlemen are mostly on the move from Savudrija to Pula or Medulin, respectively. along the western coast of Istria, and you will all agree that the western coast of Istria or that the good in that area is the most attractive in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I'm sure they're reaching the highest price. So without control of that land, I warn that anything will happen. We absolutely ask that priority in buying has a domestic population. If it weren't for that, everything else would be colonialization. You all know that spatial plans, that, to put an emphasis on it, are constantly changing, constantly supplementing, that the building spaces are constantly expanding. That's also logical because Istra, for example, has 30,000 voters more than she had in '93. Forty thousand inhabitants more than they were practically moved into that space. People moved from various parts of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro. These people were brought by an accident in 1992, 1993, and we had over 50,000 refugees, who had exiles concentrated in refugee camps in Istria. But I am absolutely against the fact that, for example, in one Slavonia, someone has priority over the Slavonic. Let's say Istrian or Dalmatian can be in a more privileged position or have priority over Slavonec, but also vice versa in Istria. That's, that would be dangerous. That would be unfair. That would be immoral. However, in Article 1 and 2 respectively, this Law now knows an element of market price that it had never known before. It's still an element of such surveillance, it's an element of what, what kind of protection. However, I would like to warn the honourable Mr. Minister that abuses are made when agricultural land is due to the purchase of that land will not be able to escape because those who have a purchase will pay to be bought by those who do not, and those who have watch out can wait ten and twenty years for these premises to be urbanized. The moment that space is urbanized these people will become multimillionaires. Therefore, in the case of urbanisation of the property under the same condition as the farmers or those who bought it should be returned to the municipality, the city, ie. State. All the rest of the gentlemen lead to one target robbery so I don't tell one projected robbery that's going to happen right away, somewhere in five years, somewhere in 10 years, somewhere in 20 years, and IDS won't be involved in it. Without it being incorporated into the law, without it being incorporated into the law that in the case of urbanization and if something is to be built back into the state, I think we're on the verge of something we know that happened through conversion or privatisation. We provide another robbery of the Republic of Croatia, decomposition only because someone found himself able to participate in the purchase of the land at some point. So, as the elected socialist directors were in 1991, by transforming into a privatisation run by companies, they came into a position to become tycoons as well as the electors of HDZ authorities, so here someone will become a big owner and become enormously rich. I'm not against rich peasants, though, but I am against wealth against or through the sale of agricultural land that until yesterday was state property. I am that the farmer gets the land, absolutely without it there is no bread for our agriculture, but in the case of urbanization and construction on those grounds that land should be returned to the state again. As far as this Article 3 is concerned, by 30 September 2005 these plans should be implemented, it is also impossible for Mr Minister. In 15.5., they were embarrassing local elections and everything that happened afterwards. They're forming heads now. Next summer break or break until 30.9. In 2005, local self-government can't do that job. It should be given one appropriate time limit, say, by 31.12 this year. So for the end, it's red. I warn the IDS will vote for this law if, in the event of urbanisation, that land belongs again to the one who, under quotes, sold the country only under quotes. I think from that position, there's a bunch of our peasants in Istria with everything else going to turn gentlemen into a projected robbery that's going to happen right away, somewhere in 5, somewhere in 10, somewhere in 20 years, and we don't want to participate in all of that. Maybe it's this Law to paraphrase Mr. Markov who said about the VAT Act that he was good for Istria. Maybe this law is good for Slavonia, it's bad for Istria, it's bad for Dalmatia, it's bad for those spaces around the big conglomerates, and I'm warning you once again what might happen. I warn Mr. Minister on you is a huge responsibility, on the representatives of this House, not to allow a robbery that will be more devastating than the one we called a robbery of the century, which is conversion and privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41386	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41387	The esteemed representative said HDZ had favored its own in the transformation and privatisation of the robbery. That's not true. Mr. Representative, when you mentioned Istria, it was precisely in Istria that there was illegalism in buying entire villages and entire complexes of land and re-use, and trying to re-use it for other purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41388	Replica. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41389	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Caine in the first wave seems to have spoken nicely. But he forgot about one thing, one important thing or two important things. The first thing is that the municipalities and cities in Istria, and so under the leadership of IDS, was the heads of the IDS, they illegally occupied forest land that was state-owned and that forest land was illegally transferred to the garland on their own. Then they pitched and sold that forest land because the defense attorneys didn't do anything at all. This is your area of Barbariga and it was only in 2000 that the State Inspectorate discovered and now a procedure for returning to state property is under way. It's the same exact same eclectic robbery. So they're the land that was illegally occupied by the state, illegally enlisted in the garland and then sold it. And now you're talking about robbery. Now mention that robbery. ... In the first wave it seems that this part is about the championship, about Slavonia, and that there should be Slavons and bound in Istria that they must be Istrians, that it is such a beautiful, beautiful thing, and in fact it is about one subtle racism. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If we look at the Constitution, everyone is equal before the Constitution and the law, everyone can compete wherever they want and do not speak such a thesis. It's basically, I don't know if you're aware, but it's subtle racism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41390	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41391	Well, I don't know who's the bigger racist in this country than your friends Kovacevic, who, with their hands up, hailed until a while ago. All the immoral gentlemen have happened or started to happen...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41392	I'm warning you, Mr. Caine, and I'm punishing you for your insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41393	...gentlemen at that moment with that house in Nazor.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41394	I warned you about your insult. Keep going, but in one correct tone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41395	Almost no Istrians, Mr. Jarnjak, who took part in the privatisation. It's almost gone. Let me tell you an example of my Buzet. All the people who came are foreign, all of them. And as for Barbara Dragoner, it's not about Mr. Kovacevic what you're talking about. It's an eclectic lie. Is that the municipality of Vodnjan 100 hectares sold in a public tender with the assessment of the court expert, with the agreement of the financial administration, the country does not know these Austrians what I also condemn, but in addition, it is freely said that no city, any municipality in Istria, which may be an exception, and there is Mr Peru, has not sold a single hectare of agricultural, forest or construction land. Almost no hectare. Almost no hectare. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41396	Mr Cain, I remind you again that it is extremely offensive to call representatives or members of a party in the Croatian Parliament of racists. Take care of what you say. Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41397	Well, first of all, I'd like to say to my colleagues that I don't know what his experience is, but I don't think it's a good idea to say in this House that there were elections, especially local elections, were embarrassing elections. These local elections were elections with the least irregularity in history. The fact that after the election someone opened up a political store and traded with that trust or mistrust that the citizens gave him, that's the problem with those parties, but the elections weren't embarrassing. But I didn't want to replicate it to you, I wanted to tell you next. So it's impossible to urbanize agricultural land. By law, agricultural land can only be converted into building land in the adoption of spatial plans up to 5%. So it takes you 20 years to urbanize agricultural land and you have to get the consent of the ministry responsible for spatial planning and construction, so at all times you, and the Ministry of Agriculture. So at any time, it can be disabled for you. But the problem is that those who buy land today will sell it at a time when they will be able to get a higher price for it and will not be very likely to deal with agriculture. This is a systemic problem that may have been limited or put some kind of obstacle in the law, for example, to say that someone who buys state land cannot sell it for, say, 10 years. And ultimately, this law doesn't lead to a circle of possessions, it leads to depletion of possessions, because the huge tables that had food and agricultural combinations of thousands of hectares are now parceled to ten, five acres and sold in order to eventually be resold sometime afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41398	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41399	It's clear that I thought, I don't know how I expressed myself as I spoke to post-election coalitions, better put it on post-election experiments. But you'll agree, Mr. Grouchy, that spatial plans are constantly changing. They're changing... What's so nervous about the post-election coalition in Velika Gorica? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41400	Mr. Caine, proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41401	Space plans are constantly changing. They change from year to year, and it is enough every other year to urbanize under quotes, i.e. to include in spatial plans those 5% of agricultural land. Buy 5 hectares means at the start you can also know how much to urbanize, i.e. under spatial plans, and the consent of the ministry in charge will anyway arrive more if the interests at local and national level overlap.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41402	Thank you. And a 5-minute debate on behalf of the HSS club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41403	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I would like to perhaps, at the end of the debate, to highlight here perhaps a few of the most important things that I believe the ministry will think very carefully, and I believe that we should, if possible, also impose amendments. I think it was tight enough here to say the deadlines. If we really set deadlines for municipalities and cities, we ask the principle question, that we did nothing if we didn't set it for the county. According to which deadlines these should be, is it twice the deadline for the counties since they are not prepared at all for this task we put towards them, but we have to be objective that in any case some deadline must exist. A really principled question is raised, and when it is now seen in practice, it is indeed necessary to set deadlines in the ministry concerning certain consents and opinions that it gives. Since we have almost three types of consent and opinions that the ministry is really extending to almost a year, there is not nearly a certain part of the work being done, and I think we need to set certain deadlines for the ministry to have that obligation in which to do the job. What may be very important to me, it has not been said so far in the debate, given that I have dealt with these problems personally, is part of the conversation, part of the work that must be done with peasant associations, which must be done with legal entities and only in this way can one work be done correctly. It must be, I remember there have been a lot of conversations in order to achieve a quality programme and in any case satisfy certain peasant associations, and then a championship in family economies, but not to do even a certain damage I would say to those legal entities, especially as it is in law determined that they have certain manufacturing facilities primarily farmed or deal with, for example, seed production. There may have been words here, including some polemic tones related to domicility. Domicileness is clearly defined in the Law on Agricultural Land, and the family economies that are located on a certain territory have the advantage, which is clear and is not why I do not know why there are some disputes about it. If I have a farm then it's logical that if the state land is somewhere near here, that I have an advantage over that land than anyone else. I think those objections heard here still lead to this thinking that certain laws apply to a particular area in Croatia, and for a particular area they do not apply. I don't think that's good, and everyone has to stick to the law. I believe the ministry will consider these deadlines that would surely lead to the possibility that we could speed up this law. I think that this slowdown that is happening right now is not a very bad thing, we don't get rid of the requirements, we don't have available programmes, we don't discuss competitions, and I think it's going to lead us to a bad situation, not according to what we wanted, which is rounding up family farms, strengthening their competitiveness for the battle that is ahead of them, which is certainly the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41404	Thank you very much. Final review, Minister Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41405	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank everyone for this exhaustive debate, which ultimately shows that this problem is very important. I'll try not to answer but to say a few things in part about certain intensities of directing this law by the MPs. First of all, the issue of setting a deadline for the preparation of the programme by the county heads is raised. The fact is that we have had some problems regarding the non-proposal of the agricultural land programme, which is essentially the basis of all kinds of availability because there are no forms of agricultural land available without the availability programme. The fact is that even since the discussions that have started since the intensities of the amendments and the addition of the Law, the situation has improved significantly, the number of programmes forwarded to the Ministry has increased, and I really expect that by 30. 9. means when we determine this deadline that on average over 95% of local self-government units will carry out their obligations. So we're going to encourage them and I'm holding that the most normal and logical thing is for each unit of local self-government to bring in a program of availability for its agricultural land. This was the legislator's intensities when he installed it in the Law and I absolutely support the intensity and decentralisation and management of its natural resources, and the land certainly belongs to one category of natural wealth and we hold the most justified that the units of local self-government and their representative bodies are those that will also bring a programme of availability and according to the programme of availability are available to agricultural land. So I don't see the need to set deadlines for the county because I objectively believe there won't be a large number of cases where the county will have to intervene. The second thing, the counties have a significantly stronger infrastructure, significantly stronger potential, and I believe that the counties will be no problem making up within a relatively short timeframe of the programme available for each municipality. The second thing is the question of setting deadlines for granting consent by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Finally, I see no reason to set deadlines because the authorities of the state administration are obliged to resolve within a month. Unfortunately, I am aware and the facts deny me, because the fact that we have programs, that we have competitions, that we have decisions that have not been resolved within very long deadlines. Why aren't they solved? The practice was not to give a negative opinion. That through the talks, agreements try to result with local self-government units certain solutions to the programme and the harmonisation of the programme with the law. It is not the Ministry that will determine neither the purpose nor the forms of use, nor the areas for which it will be intended, nor the maximum surfaces that will be conditionally spoken, as Mr Cain said, which could be the assumption of tycunisation. Excuse me, the local self-government unit has mechanisms and it also brings forms of availability, the local self-government unit determines maximum surfaces and for sale and for hire, so everything is in the hands of local self-government units. Me and here I want, units of local self-government have been given the opportunity to make and decide on agricultural land, but they also have to be responsible for what they do in their own space, that's the intensity of this law. So, the problem is when giving consent to programmes because of programmes that are not in line with the Law and the intensity of our consent within the Ministry is just monitoring whether there was a program, there were competitions, and then deciding whether it was only in accordance with the applicable legal provisions. Ours is not an intensity, and it is not our task to determine whether someone should have received land, one or the other, and decisions are taken by municipal and city councils in the area for which the competition is called. As far as other issues are concerned, normally we need a policy of implementing the problem of agricultural land because it is the basis for implementing other programmes, the fact is that there is no raising of long-term plantations on the surfaces that have not been solved, means by law a regulated way of making available, there has been a long-term lease, any concessions, any purchases. The fact is, there are cases of long-term plantations being raised on such land, and even the usurped one. But it is also a fact that we have also established by the Law on Support and Regulation the criteria which must be met and one of the basic criteria in order to provide support for the raising of long-term plantations that land is either owned or in concession or in a long-term lease, which must be argued, means the one who usurped the land, the one who does not have a prescribed form of availability, unfortunately, will not be able to achieve, support for the rise of long-term plantations, and ultimately our programme and our intensity to increase areas under vineyards, orchards and olive groves. The next thing I would like to say is also for the implementation of the cattle programme, which has been spoken of here, normally so that credit and all that goes along with the fact that certain ownership or use of certain areas of agricultural land must be attached. Because normally in no normal country, no normal bank will grant credit to something that is not subject to certain criteria and that's a fact. For these reasons, not to mention all other reasons, it is necessary to speed up this process. I, as minister, can say that the Ministry and the services dealing with the issue of agricultural land will significantly speed up the issue of issuing and preparing the release of consent, that all those where we cannot normally comply with local self-government units that we will send negative opinions and that we will show ourselves, and not stick to cases because the fact is that there are cases that stand for many years. It is also a fact that unfortunately these consultations and talks and negotiations with local self-government units have been made as a rule of telephone. I issued a strict order that all correspondence must go in writing, that there must be traces and that then we can argue and unfortunately we will have to issue negatives somewhere, not give consent to certain legal actions. I point out once again, we are not in a position to lead and to have the ministry implement and decide who will be the beneficiary of agricultural land. It is the responsibility of the units of local self-government and here from this pay phone I make it clear and loud and demand full and responsibility and seriousness in the implementation of this job because we have allowed them to be the ones to decide and dispose of agricultural land. This debate was partly used to discuss agriculture. I would not like to get too involved in this problem, in the debate on the problem of agriculture, but unfortunately for the sake of the wider Croatian public, I have to say a few words and point out that the stories are not true that Croatian agriculture has no chance, that Croatian agriculture is going the wrong way and that Croatian agriculture has nothing to look for in the European Union. Croatia's agriculture ultimately in this year has an increase in exports by the first five months since the circus 30%. The fact is that we also have an increase in imports of 12% but what we are particularly happy about is that the increase in exports to European Union countries has an increase of 62%, which means that Croatian agriculture and the food industry can create a product that can also come into the European Union market. We are often told that this is an increase at the expense of exports to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Yes, we have significant exports to Bosnia and Herzegovina but the fact is that in the first five months the increase in exports to Bosnia and Herzegovina is 13% and in the European Union it is 62%. It means that in part they are indicators that show that Croatian agriculture and the food industry have something to offer and what to present on this demanding market. Similarly, when we talk about external trade exchange, it is not noteworthy that the exchange of agricultural and food products has a significantly higher coverage of imports by export than other sectors in the Republic of Croatia. And as a rule, when talking about excessive imports, exports are neglected, compatibility with other sectors is neglected, and there is, as a rule, an emphasis on excessive imports of agricultural and food products. I am convinced that during this term of office we will come to a coverage of imports of exports up to 75%. It means the imports will be covered with our exports. On the other hand, when we also include the needs for the tourist season, I can say responsibly that agriculture and the food industry will have a complete coverage of the imports of exports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41406	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41407	So I'd have corrected the minister if the ministry didn't want to give a negative answer. So, in particular, more than a year stands a request for consent. In that year, no letters, no voices, no pictures from the ministry. Therefore, the decision on the consent to choose cannot be corrected. It can be accepted or rejected. It seems to me that there are those in the ministry who do not want to solve some cases because they may even be suitable for those who are now using land illegally.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41408	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41409	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister has found that the programme of availability is exclusively in the jurisdiction of local administration and self-government units. It's just an illusion, Mr. Minister. You know well that you're an arbiter, that you're the ones who're blocking the process and where it's done well for six months, and where there's by chance some shortcomings that you can't adequately identify whether it's a meadow, ora, whether it's green, blue or not, I don't know what color it is. That I'm not talking. And if it's still a mistake not to even know the owner then it's been a year. Let's understand, you're that impenetrable wall and the point where everything just stops, there's no process going for your office whoever's running and not running that office because we who bled when we made some municipalities have to slap our hands on the table because they're protecting those who were illegally alien land. I've said it ten times. These are the connections that remain of that system and have not yet broken. It needs to be interrupted and please let it happen sometime.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41410	And the third correction, the respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41411	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd say the minister finally took the opportunity to get into this agricultural debate, some things, so I want to make it right. What he said was there is no problem with the position of Croatian agriculture in Europe, that we are doing well and that he cited some examples. Unfortunately, I have to fix that part. If we continue in this direction, I think you too are aware, Mr. Minister, that unfortunately we are facing difficult adjustments and entry into the European Union, especially if those black hunches related to the introduction of quotas are true, then there will be no products you proudly speak of here, which are certainly fixing our balance sheet. But if we get the quota, then unfortunately, they'll be gone, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41412	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. To take advantage of the occasion and to discuss three laws on which there are no amendments or objections to vote immediately. This is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 79 votes for and one abstention and 2 against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41415	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The delegation of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia met in the first round of negotiations in Ljubljana from 6 to 10 December 1999 and then it took six years to meet again from 31 May to 2 June 2005 and the agreed text of the contract was signed on 10 June 2005 in Brijuni. What is very important is to point out that this contract has made a number of concessions for taxing all types of income, as well as for improving the conditions for improving mutual exchange of goods and services, and to increasing the level of overall economic activity of both countries in the way that follows. The concept of resident is defined to avoid double taxation of Croatian residents or prevents the avoidance of income tax. It is possible for Croatian construction and similar companies not to pay profit tax in the Republic of Slovenia if the works last less than 12 months. It is possible for Croatian airlines, road and shipping companies carrying out the transport of goods between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia to pay taxes on profits achieved exclusively in the Republic of Croatia. The final provisions of this Treaty stipulate that Croatian societies in the Republic of Slovenia will have the same status and benefits as those of the state. But what I would like to stress in particular, and this was debate in this House of Commons, there were also parliamentary questions that we are finally solving the trauma of Croatian pensioners in the border area between the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia with this Law. So, what really needs to be pointed out is that this contract regulates the taxation of pensions in the country of residence, the recipient of pensions, which means that the right to tax the pensions of Croatian citizens achieved in the Republic of Slovenia under the contract has the Republic of Croatia as their country of residence. Therefore, after the entry into force of this contract, Croatian citizens who made their retirement in the Republic of Slovenia will no longer have to pay taxes in the Republic of Slovenia. However, since the Law on income tax for pensions has not been reached abroad in Croatia, and after the application of this contract, the Croatian citizen and the Republic of Croatia will no longer pay pension tax in the Republic of Slovenia. What I would also like to say is that after the decision-making process in this House, diplomatic activities should be taken that the Slovenian Parliament initials this Agreement as soon as possible. For the reasons that the provisions of this Agreement apply to pensions for the first month following the ratification of these two parliaments and all other provisions of this double taxation avoidance agreement shall apply from 1. 1st of next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41416	Thank you very much. The Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Legislatives? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41417	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I am very pleased that this Bill on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax avoidance and on property came into the process and I must say this really in record time after the whole procedure has been initiated. In fact, what is important is to note that the Taxation Act, and I will be kept exclusively on this part, is the taxation of pensions in Slovenia entered into force 1. 1. In 2005 and pensioners who acquire property in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of their work in the Republic of Slovenia, which is the largest part along the border section, some remained from 1. 1. 2005 and up to a third pension. The tax is extremely high and the people who have been retired for years have dimensioned their lives on the basis of those incomes they have had all those years and have suddenly lost a third of them, I say, up to a third of these incomes and surely this is a huge problem for those people, even some have come into the situation of the inability to carry out their life obligations they have. The procedure was then initiated and I personally wrote to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a procedure was launched where the Croatian government was involved but it is important to note that here are the negotiations started in the 99s and that it took 6 years for the whole process to be launched and this is the first country that our traffic with, where our people have the most that worked there, we know how many... Their jobs and working relationships, i.e. the 90s and 91s and 2nds, are interrupted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those who have lost their jobs, those who have earned their pension there today are in an extremely difficult situation. Not to be too long, so I ask that every possible effort be made to influence the Slovenian Parliament as soon as possible, perhaps even our Parliament to ask the Slovenian Parliament to proceed as soon as possible to ratify the adoption of this Law and in the Slovenian Parliament because this would mean that the moment that this agreement is adopted in the Slovenian Parliament it will become effective, and that means that these pensioners and those people will practically receive a third of their pensions more than they are now. I've been to several sets of these people where there were hundreds of people who were damaged by it, it's not a small number of people, it's an extremely large number of people and I appeal once again, and it would be good to do so in the Slovenian Parliament as we avoid these people being in such a situation. This is also the lesson that as soon as possible with other neighbouring countries with which we have not ratified such a contract, we also ratify these contracts, because here we have 39 total contracts so far accepted and a series of contracts that are under way and should especially be with neighbouring countries where our citizens could be damaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41418	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41419	Yeah, I forgot to say, the HDZ Club will support that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41420	IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41421	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, this contract, signed by Mr. Sanader and Mr. Janša, means the prime ministers of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, signed on the Brijuni, is certainly a good contract. It is a sign that it is also moving in Croatian-Slovenian relations, well, now I don't expect that all these open issues of debt will be resolved from the Ljubljana Bank towards Croatian savings, Piran Bay, etc., but I want to say that this contract that we are discussing today actually means life. Why? So first of all, those figures of nearly 14,000 Croatian pensioners who would have been greatly cut off without the same and in the future. It is true that the minister noticed that this Treaty would take effect when it was ratified by the Slovenian parliament. So it will start to apply when pensions are in question a month later or 30 days later than the day of the last ratification and therefore it would really be good for the Croatian Parliament to invite its Slovenian colleagues to do so as soon as possible, in fact now even in Slovenia can't do so nine months ago. We also call on Slovenian diplomats working on the territory of the Republic of Croatia to appeal to their government to forward such a single contract to their parliamentary procedure. Until that happens to our people, and in the future, they'll be cut off. But the point is in the next. From 1. 1. To date, and most likely by the end of the 10th month, maybe this whole year, our pensioners will lose between 16% and 33% of the pensions that would normally have belonged to them, which they otherwise received up to 1. 1. 2005. This is certainly an injustice because it is certainly about the considerable resources of these people’s household wakes. The IDS talked about it all the time, and we addressed both parliamentary issues and ministers with the current clock. That is why we look forward to the fact that the Croatian-Slovenian government has heard the cries of these old people. This contract does not apply, however, only to pensions, it relates to a whole range of other, economic, social, etc., issues. For example. This is about a permanent business unit. So in all those who are in some way economically engaged either in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, or the Republic of Slovenia. This also regulates the issue of the treatment of income from real estate, profit from business, international transport of related companies. Here's the question of dividends, interest, copyright fees. Here we talk about profit from alienation of property if we say the profits the resident State Contracting Party makes... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is about income from unsuspecting work, fees to management members, artists, athletes, pensions, public service. This is about students, professors, researchers, property and so on and so on. And what's most important puts emphasis on equal treatment. So this contract has one far-reaching dimension of self-treatment, say pensions. But I'm sure pensions are the point. In international contracts, we can either accept or reject these contracts. We cannot change them clearly in this debate, however, I would like to say that both hands should be raised for this contract. Unfortunately, pensioners who have been suspended since 1.1 this year until today, and most likely by the end of the 10th month will be left without the money they lost, without those 16 and 33%, but at least in the future they will not be accepted for what is objectively theirs. Croatian-Slovenian relations are certainly burdened by a whole series of unresolved issues, such as the border at sea, I do not know the declines of Slovenian fishermen and Slovenian police have been frequented in Piran Bay. That's not good. But good news is that in the full season, disputes do not occur. Otherwise, I would like to say that Croatian-Slovenian relations are good relations, that because of policy, these relations must not be put up with, especially because of politics, they must not tolerate life at the border, as our economy must not suffer, either. I would call on the minister, take this opportunity to open the border crossing of Jelovica in Slovenia, the Slovenian side made it. Come on, let's learn this effort to relive this communication through Cicaria. A trade trade, if I'm not mistaken, is almost two billion dollars. Slovenia exports over a billion and a half dollars of goods to Croatia. Croatia exports about 600, 700 million dollars of goods to Slovenia. This will say that 20 thousand people come to work daily in Slovenia and work for goods sold in Croatia and vice versa 20 thousand people come to work daily and work only for those goods produced, produced in Croatia and exported to Slovenia. From tourism Croatia has a huge surplus. Slovenians are ours if I'm not mistaken for my second or third guests. I'm sure that's something to be appreciated. Of course we spend our time skiing, too. That's why you're smart in the head. Let's settle all these open questions. Slovenia is a friendly country for us, and as such, Croatia can only help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41422	Thank you. HNS club. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41423	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. I believe that today, especially in Međimurje, a large number of people will be watching this debate eagerly await the moment of news when this agreement will be ratified because indeed we in Međimurje have a large number of people who are receiving a pension from Slovenia. And what started in 1.1 this year was all by law in neighbouring Slovenia, but what made people the most angry was the fact that Croatian diplomacy through our state administration in time did not give information about new Slovenian regulations because the law was not passed at the last moment but early in the year, but began to apply in 1.1 this year and because of the lack of understanding of tax regulations in both Slovenia and Croatia, people were first confused, and then people. Because they couldn't understand why their pensions were shrinking at once 10, 15, 20 and 30%, so this might be a good experience so that we shouldn't have to do anything to change the rules in countries where we have these civil interests don't get these people in time of quality, accurate information and instructions in possible protection of their rights. So there were petitions from Međimurje towards the Croatian government about the problem in which the negotiations began in 1999 as soon as possible. And it is true that what we are doing here today, and we will support this law is only half the first step because after our ratification, ratification should also follow in the Slovenian Parliament. I also call on the president of our Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation to try to see with his colleague and colleague in Parliament Slovenia that even colleagues in Slovenia really are quick to put this on the agenda and to carry out ratification with them, and I do not want to believe that other open issues between Croatia and Slovenia will be about, by justification or any other reason that Ljubljana will also not ratify it as soon as possible. After that, the exchange of notes will take place so that when diplomacy exchanges notes and documents are published, I want to believe that this will be done by the end of this calendar year to go into full application from 1.1 next year. The first group of those who can be satisfied with this interstate contract are entrepreneurs who do part of their work and in Slovenia, especially if this job lasts less than 12 months, and in this group of entrepreneurs regarding Croatia, the largest group is from construction, construction and that is good. The second group of pleasures is shared by pensioners about 14,15 thousand Croatian citizens who unfortunately are until this begins to apply lost part of their pension without the possibility of compensation from either side. However, there is another group of Croatian citizens that I am not sure should rejoice or grieve about. And it is about workers of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live and reside in Croatia, whose family members live in Croatia and who work as day or week migrants in Slovenia. I tried Article 14. To translate the agreement into Croatian. This is an international right of diplomatic expression and tax finesse, but I learned Japanese before you could translate this into Croatian. So I ask the Minister not for me but indeed about 600 workers from the Međimurje County who work in Slovenia as day and weeks of migrants to answer the next question. According to income tax and in neighbouring Slovenia, there is the right to personal deductions and deductions for dependent family members. When a worker in Slovenia from Croatia receives salary under the current and this new Slovenian law for dependent family members living in Croatia do not have the right to tax deductions. So if children and husbands or husbands who are not employed live in Croatia on that income tax in Slovenia are not entitled to tax deductions and are treated as single. The majority of dependent families are affected by the income tax by net earnings up to 16%. So it is about all those workers who are daily or weeks of migrants, who have not registered in Slovenia either temporary residence or foreign status on temporary stay, have a working permit but travel from Croatia every day to work in Slovenia. Where they take it, that's my second question, tax card on income tax? The salary is from Slovenia, in Slovenia there are taxpayers, they do not exercise the right to tax deduction, and family members live in Croatia and they support them. This formulation that the recipient should not stay longer than 183 days in one or more periods in the tax year, whether those 183 days should not be in Slovenia or in Croatia, the number of working days in the calendar year is 250 to 260 depending on the day of holidays, holidays. Whether the registered address of the temporary stay in Slovenia automatically transfers it to the tax system of Slovenia or could still make additional efforts to ensure that in cooperation with the Slovenian Tax Administration this category of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, workers in Slovenia and taxpayers in Slovenia are resolved in a way that their tax deductions are recognised as dependent family members living in Croatia. On these two answers, the clarifications of the dilemma, believe me and their future status depend also on the possibility of survival, i.e. the rest of these people working in Slovenia, and I remind you that it is a border area where the number of jobs on the Croatian side, small or smaller than those in Slovenia, and that people are the only way to achieve... to go to work in Slovenia. Mr. Minister, if these two dilemmas can be cleared, it would be very important for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41424	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Proposer, Minister Shucker, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41425	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So in the final negotiations that took place after 5 years of rest, we were aware of this problem because there is no such problem when our citizens work in some countries that are more distant, then the place of residence is not at all controversial. However, here it is extremely difficult to determine the status of residents and non-residents and simply because they work in the Republic of Slovenia, so they are taxed under the laws of the Republic of Slovenia, that they come to sleep to say so in the Republic of Croatia, is the problem of determining residence and non-residentity, however, the exact same treatment is done by workers from Slovenia who work in the Republic of Croatia, so they pay taxes according to the laws that rule in the Republic of Croatia. I Mr. Lesar that this story of yours sounds nice politically, however, it is legislative and professionally impossible to implement and determine. Look, which means the notion of resident and non-resident he if he works 8 hours in Slovenia, that his house is nearby and he comes home to sleep, however, the question is also where certain rights and costs and all expensive from that salary are realised, it is a series of questions to be answered, and since the same rights therefore, and the same obligations have citizens of Slovenia who work in Croatia, such legal status has been left to Croatian citizens who work in Slovenia. However, I think that this agreement solves practically grotesque questions about taxation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, but you must also be aware if someone goes to work in Slovenia, it is his voluntary act and must respect the laws of Slovenia. The fact that they may be more unfavourable to him in certain reliefs than the citizens of Slovenia, I repeat, is the problem of identifying residents and non-residents. And if it were as simple as you said, then probably these commissions from the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia that have conducted these negotiations would have solved this problem, because neither of them is in the interest of this Agreement to bring certain dissatisfactions. The aim of this Agreement is to address the problems of avoiding double taxation and avoiding non-payment of income taxes, and it was not the aim of this agreement to abolish someone. So try to look at it from this side to achieve the maximum that could be achieved at this time, but I say what is most important is the same status of Slovenian citizens working in Croatia and let's not say that tomorrow this relationship between those working from Croatia in Slovenia and those working from Slovenia in Croatia will not change, so what more Slovenians do in Croatia will insist on applying rules such as the law as it is now, and let's say we don't like what maybe a little more Croats do in Slovenia than it does in Croatia. As far as filing tax returns are concerned, they are taxpayers to submit tax applications in the Republic of Slovenia rather than in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41426	Thank you very much, Minister. An agent named Lesar came forward to correct the incorrect allegations, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41427	Well, I'm correcting the alleged Mr. Secretary that what I was saying was a political story. I commended you, expressed great satisfaction on behalf of those covered by the agreement and who will profit from it, and it is very good. But it's not my political story, I'm going to give you the addresses and names of the people who called me this morning, begging that this dilemma be cleared so they know what they're getting into. If it were a political story, I didn't even know about this problem until the citizens met me about it. So, Mr. Minister, we're well-intentioned on behalf of the citizens of the answer, when we're trying to keep the dilemmas out of the way... to clear up, don't give me good political stories, I've never done that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41428	All right, fellow MP, although this is more of a debate that could have gone in a different form than I was correcting an incorrect allegation. Let's move on to the debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, colleague representative Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41429	Madam Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. To begin with, the SDP Club will support and vote on the adoption of this law on ratification of double taxation agreements with the Republic of Slovenia. It should be said that this is a standard contract that he has, that is, before his colleague Jarnjak said, Croatia with 39 countries, however, it is extremely important for a very large number of our citizens who have already been spoken about through these discussions of clubs. Namely, Croatia and Slovenia are developing good neighbourly and friendly relations, but there are many open issues between us and the Republic of Slovenia. In the 1990s, we had a lot of problems with the cancellation of our workers in the Republic of Slovenia and their rights which have been resolved for a long time, and it seems to me that only in 98 years some of these problems have been solved where these workers from Croatia or the Slovenian side will exercise their labour rights. Health insurance problems have also been resolved and negotiations have been launched to avoid double exposure, as the minister said in an opening statement in 99. Indeed, the question is why did it take us so long for this agreement to come to ratification in Parliament. A big problem has just occurred with our pensioners through the application of the new Income Tax Act in the Republic of Slovenia, which took effect on 1 January 2005. Many of our fellow citizens have spoken to us especially in these parts of the border, I will say that this is a total of just over 14 thousand people who are receiving a pension in the Republic of Slovenia. Here in my County of Međimurje it is just over 3,000 people who have earned the right and are receiving a pension from the Republic of Slovenia. It's a good thing those negotiations got faster and that contract was signed here a few months ago, or a month ago. In this law, pensions of up to 108 thousand and 333 tolars are taxed at 16%, and pensions between that class up to 211 thousand 666 tolars with 32%, which are at the very least some of the average pensions received by our citizens who made them in the Republic of Slovenia. The additional difficult situation for these people is that they do not have the right to deduct and facilitate from that first kuna to pay that tax rate, and I think that we should now and that is the suggestion of our club, to take all diplomatic measures, and also those that we have as parliamentarians to ensure that there is a ratification of this agreement as soon as possible in the Slovenian Parliament, i.e. that immediately after Parliament has taken a decision on ratification, there is a change of diplomatic notes, so that this law, or this agreement, will come into effect as soon as possible so that there may be some relief and our entrepreneurs, because this agreement regulates tax relations from business relations, from the adoption of pensions as it was before 1 January 2005, and of course there should be some relief from our citizens in Slovenia. So here is the hope that we will succeed in this agreement in 2005, and we will support its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41430	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club, counterpart Ante Markov was reported. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41431	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, it encourages and looks forward to any open issues with our neighbours, with the Republic of Slovenia and the proposal to confirm this Treaty between the Republic and the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and on property is, of course, long awaited and, of course, all clubs will support this proposal. And of course, an opportunity should be used to point out that several groups of our citizens, and there are more than 14,000 of them as said in the structure of pensioners who are all over Croatia who have spent their working lives in the Republic of Slovenia, and now I will finally be able to equalize myself with my rights and use what belongs to them. Of course not less important is the opening of opportunities for our economies to carry out their activities in the Republic of Slovenia, or vice versa. It rejoices and encourages, especially after many years, this is a positive step in the overall relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, which deserves more attention and attention and it is good that the Croatian Parliament first confirmed this contract and I believe that all together we will send a strong message to the Slovenian Parliament about the necessity of such confirmation and ratification of this contract for the reason that those assumptions and aspirations of all those citizens subject to this contract are realized. Of course, this is also an opportunity to say that other citizens and other groups expect to solve their problems that need to be solved in bilateral relations with the Republic of Slovenia, above all, saves the Ljubljanska banks who are also waiting for their day to fully resolve the return of funds invested in the former Ljubljanska Banka. Of course, a whole series of political unresolved issues and disputes between Croatia and Slovenia suggest that this is good, that this is a good point in terms of movement, good direction of movement and that the unity of all discussions in the Croatian Parliament indicates that Croatia wants and solves all open relations with Slovenia fully and gives an example of the speed of unity and honesty in confirming these, but we also believe other agreements and resolving open issues, as well as in some way calling on Slovenia to bring the road infrastructure to the level that is suitable for this part of Europe, that Slovenia also strengthens efforts to adapt this road infrastructure to the speed that it does and Croatia, and that in this way we are going to establish those relations that belong to good neighbours, and we are certainly and we should be in the future neighbours that we depend on each other, which, with good economic relations of those resources that connect us and good political relations that we have, as well as well as we are able to be able to be able to be able to do so on one of one another. For all these reasons, the Croatian Peasant Party Club joins support for this confirmation of this contract and we express our wish, our hope that the Slovenian side will ratify this contract as soon as possible and thus take all the expensive first step in resolving all the issues I have spoken of.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41432	Thank you very much, colleague. No more club representatives reported. We're on our way to an individual debate for 10 minutes. The first was reported for a 10-minute debate by counterpart Nikola Sopčić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41433	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased to have the opportunity to discuss today the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation. This bill applies to income and property taxes, but in the debate, I will limit myself to taxing the pensions of our citizens who made their pension in neighbouring Slovenia and live mainly in the border area. On that subject, I also had a parliamentary question, and I am glad that this has already come to the agenda today. Such pensioners in border areas as well as in my municipality, the Žača municipality has practically half of the total retirement population. By amending the Income Tax Act in the Republic of Slovenia from the beginning of this year, which has already been mentioned here, for at least 16% and even up to 1/3 of their pensions until the beginning of this year because they have been taxed full pensions, so that their relationship with their Slovenian colleagues who have made pensions under the same conditions has been abolished. The fact is that in the past term of the former government, and primarily because of interstate interference with the neighbouring state, nothing has done to reach this agreement and ratify it in the Parliament and also in the Slovenian Parliament. There should certainly be a confession to our government, President Sanader, which is a harmonized agreement, which is all doubtless resolved and signed at a joint session of the Croatian and Slovenian governments in Brijuni. I am convinced that this has been achieved precisely because of the good relations established with the Slovenian government which is in the interest of all of us who live and work in the border area with neighbouring Slovenia and what should be stressed in that border area our relations with each other have always been very correct. They can also give an example of Slovenian entrepreneurs and businesses operating in the territory of my municipality that they are very correct, very responsible and we want and we believe that this agreement will also contribute to our mutual and exchange and business still living and developing. I am pleased that all the clubs of the MPs have supported this bill and I am convinced that it will be unanimously and accepted. However, I hope that the Slovenian Parliament will also very quickly ratify this agreement so that already this year our pensioners may receive the full amount of their pension they have earned fairly. I believe that there will be no repeat case as was the case of ratification of the agreement with Slovenia on border traffic and cooperation where unfortunately we have waited several years for ratification of the Slovenian Parliament, so if this is achieved by the end of this year, I think it will be satisfactory for our pensioners as well. In the end, Madam Vice President, I'm glad I can support this agreement on my behalf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41434	Thank you, colleague. The next registered representative is counterpart Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41435	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen! Let me also briefly refer to this law as a proposal for an agreement. In the beginning, I can say that I support him and that finally after a great period of time we came to him here in the Croatian Parliament and accept him. We're ratifying. It could have been done before, but it is good that it was done here today in the Croatian Parliament. We have heard so far that in different parts of Croatia there have been some problems in some of our population, which have been due to the law passed in Slovenia, which has been applied since 1 January of this year to tax pensions, that there has been a reduction in these pensions. So we heard in Međimurje and Međimurje County that there are many such municipalities and cities, so where there are many such inhabitants. As an example, a drastic one can serve us the Municipality of St. Martin on Mura where more than 70% of those who receive pensions before work. So in Slovenia he receives a Slovenian pension so that this regulation has brought them great difficulties. What does that mean exactly? There, a pensioner from Vrhovljan who, for example, received 50,000 Slovenian tolars before the law was passed in Slovenia and received 40,000 tolars as little as 400 kuna as possible from January. One pensioner from St. Martin at Mura who received about 220 euros, which is about a thousand and five hundred kuna per new one, so according to the application of this law gets about a thousand and 200 kuna, which is 300 kuna less. A pensioner from the Murski center who received 6.5 thousand kuna is now receiving 4.5 thousand kuna, so for 2,000 kuna less pensions than before. So it's about large funds especially for pensioners who have to survive today and certainly will be welcome to return to the old ones. So, this return to the old is not dependent therefore on the decision of this Parliament alone, so all clubs have declared to support this agreement and I believe that it will be decided unanimously but I am not so sure that it will be the same in the Slovenian parliament is unfortunately in Slovenia there is especially from the opposition of many politicians or parties who use every opportunity to deal with Croatia, so I think it will be the case here. So I am sure that this will not be adopted unanimously in the Slovenian Parliament, but I hope that this will still be carried out and that we should all really engage from diplomacy to our Parliament, so that this debate and acceptance should be held as soon as possible in the Slovenian Parliament. Unfortunately, I said that some politicians in Slovenia use such and similar opportunities to deal with Croatia. We are unfortunately witnessing that we have recently had some of such negative initiatives and not only by opposition parties, for example their representative and the president of one of their parties Podobnik even announced a proposal to call a referendum in Slovenia on Croatia's entry into the European Union, which I think is absurd. And we have been surprised in Međimurje recently by the initiative of the Minister of Transport of the Republic of Slovenia on the setting of the border crossing between Croatia and Slovenia on a new bridge built in St. Martin on Mura, which we in Međimurje did not accept because this would mean changing the borders, moving the border to the middle of the Mura River, which is an initiative on the Slovenian side but we in Međimurje in Croatia are therefore on the point that the border between Croatia and Slovenia is on the old flow of the Mura River, which is the border several hundred years old. So we think it's pointless to discuss it. So, these are just some examples that tell us that there are always some politicians in Slovenia who are using every opportunity to strengthen relations with Slovenia but I hope in the end that it will not be with this law and that our pensioners will all start getting the pension they deserve. Furthermore, I am pleased that we are still passing and that we will pass a law that will fix what has happened and that we in Međimurje County will still benefit from it. Unfortunately, it wasn't the case with some other law. Just to visit that my colleague Lesar and I have submitted laws on Croatian broadcasting where we have proposed that our population in Međimurje, as well as other places along the Slovenian border, be easier to accept the Croatian Radio Television programme, i.e. that those who don't receive the program don't pay. And also, in the case of HRT, it was not accepted in the county, so I hope that this very law will be adopted in order to at least make life easier in that small part of the population in our hill-area and the border area with Slovenia easier. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41436	Thank you very much, colleague. The following has been reported for the debate by MP Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41437	Dear Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, so I must remind myself that this issue, resolving the issues of pensioners, means our pensioners from Slovenia have just been launched by the Croatian party of rights in our proposal regarding the Savardijska vala. And since this contract finally appears in the Croatian Assembly, I am pleased for two reasons. The first reason is that we are obviously starting to solve some open issues with Slovenia, we know that a lot of these issues have been accumulated, they were only disputes, something is finally beginning to solve. And the second most important reason is that finally, at least the issues of our pensioners are being resolved from Slovenia. But about this part, I must say that I do not like this part of the concern that appears here in the Croatian Parliament, namely, the words of concern about the kidnapping when Slovenia will ratify, so their parliament said this international treaty, also by the minister and minister, that we also help resolve this issue. Normally, we all have to get involved here, but first of all, I note that the issue of foreign policy is in the power of the government and the president of the state, normally the Parliament has that part, and the Minister, or the Government, should tell us what she did, so that the Slovenian Parliament can ratify this international treaty as soon as possible because there is this problem, means that, and that fear that everyone here has said that Slovenia could make it difficult to ratify all of this, so that it would only be applied, which would be sad, only since 1. 1st of next year. So, then, you were probably Mr. Ministers at the conclusion of that contract on behalf of the government that was, so you can best know and tell us here in the Croatian Parliament what the representatives told you, that is, there was both the Prime Minister and ours from Slovenia, what they said when and how this will be carried out ratification in the Parliament of Slovenia. No, we can do that part, but you know a better situation than we do. You were on the negotiating team, you were at that meeting, so tell us what the Slovenians told you and don't beat us to it. Because that's still the word of 15 thousand pensioners, and I have to make it up to the public, it was probably a joke for you not only to refer to pensioners living in the border area, referring to pensioners who made their pension in Slovenia no matter where they live. They can live in Osijek, but it's about retirement. But you've made a lapse, I don't know, take a phonogram and take a look. Therefore, I expect you to say what assurance you have received from the negotiators from Slovenia, means the Slovenian Government so that the pensioners know the same thing, that we know the answer, too, we are all likely to send a conclusion, a request, to the Parliament of Slovenia to hurry with this work, but you know the best answer to what they have told you when and within what time they will do so. Because it is normal for the Government in Slovenia to have support in parliament. Therefore, if the Government has agreed with this Parliament, it will be, and do not be afraid to tell us this part too. So I want the right answer for the pensioner they told you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41438	Thank you very much, colleague. The last registered representative for the 10-minute debate is colleague Velimir Pleso. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41439	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, of course, I will definitely support this bill on the confirmation and ratification of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation. I will support him for this because of a total of 14,15 thousand pensioners, first of all, means about the category of which Article 17 of this Treaty speaks and Article 18 of which almost 25% lives in the area of Međimurje, means from the county from which I come from, and not wanting to pollemise in any way with Mr Kovacevic, who said that the rightful ones who raised the question that this law would be found before the Croatian Parliament, I can say that from Međimurje, right at the beginning and this year when the first solutions began to receive and the first pensions of pensioners came signal to the Croatian government that something was wrong and that it should finally be resolved after 6 years of negotiation and this example of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. I am since so much has been said by this point, also convinced not only that Minister Shuker is well aware of what it was and how it was in these negotiations and that he was present at the signing of this contract. He signed the contract along with his Slovenian counterpart, so he certainly knows a very good situation as regards in general all the items in the contract that we are ratifying today. Unlike some colleagues, I do not want to express concern about when and whether the contract will be ratified in the Slovenian parliament. Namely, I'm convinced that the government is Dr. Sanader showed by concluding within 5 months of these events about double taxation of pensions and problems encountered in the retirement population showed something else. It has shown that problems that are inevitably emerging among neighbours cannot be solved by any classical Balkan methods before the final act, but it has shown that by including Slovenia yesterday and Croatia tomorrow in the European Union it is certainly welcome for both countries to comply with European standards. And that and the government of Dr. Sanader and Mr. Janša's government also show that these standards are possible in relations between Croatia and Slovenia, and they are apparent to ask the neighbours that no party can be required to seek a reduction or derogation from the rights acquired prior to their independence. This is worth both the border issue and the property issues. And these relations between Croatia and Slovenia are, in the back of a year, at least a year and a half in any case, good and they are in improvement and they are not based and they are not only in the declarations, but above all by conduct and action of both government and government. That is why I believe that this is the first step in resolving all open issues between Croatia and Slovenia's mutual and neighbourly relations, and in any case I support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41440	Thank you very much, dear colleague. No more reports. For the final word, Minister Shuker, please, on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41441	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say a few findings, nor did I say in my first and second reporting that I would like to transfer responsibility to the Croatian Parliament to influence or transfer responsibility to them for the ratification of this agreement. The normal thing is that even during the talks at Brijuni, Prime Minister Sanader and Prime Minister Jansa expressed a mutual desire for this agreement to be ratified in each other's parliament as soon as possible, primarily because of pensioners and each other because I am talking about people's fates. It's a normal thing that no one's interested in getting away with it. And surely the Croatian government in its diplomatic channels, and therefore Prime Minister Sanader and Janša's prime minister, too, and her colleague from the Slovenian side, Rupel, and I also with counterpart Bioko, Slovenian Finance Minister, will try everything to ratify this agreement as soon as possible and the normal thing is that there are several unresolved issues left. Never with any agreement can all issues be resolved, and the same problem of taxation of the currently employed Croatian citizens in Slovenia is only one elemental issue. On the basis of what they are now paying in Slovenia tomorrow, they will seek pensions. And we can't exactly edit everything into detail, I say, but I think this agreement has solved a lot of problems which, at this point, are primarily plagued by Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian pensioners. Let's say the big thing is that Croatian construction firms, if they work in Slovenia for up to 12 months, will be taxed under Croatian law and will pay taxes in Croatia. It is also a big deal that Croatian entrepreneurs will practically have the same status as Slovenia and what is most important for our carriers as well as for road transport, the same problems will be solved. So this contract is currently solving, we can say the biggest part of the problem, but this part that remains around the currently employed people in Slovenia is one thing that is practically impossible to resolve, and it is about that definition of residence and residence which defines the tax obligation where someone is a taxpayer. It is common for all the laws of the European states to say that the sad taxpayer is the one who stays in the country for 182 days. And now the question arises, given the proximity of the place of work and the proximity of the dwellings, and this is the border between those two places because it is practically impossible to define those 182 days. But given that on this basis, this employment tomorrow, Croatian citizens will be entitled to pension in Slovenia, then it is logical that taxation will also be in Slovenia. Perhaps we should consider some future negotiations with the Republic of Slovenia that, with certain confirmation that children are being educated and so on in the Republic of Croatia, as is the case for an old still-to-be agreement on avoiding double taxation between the former state of Yugoslavia and the Federal Republic of Germany, our temporary employees in Germany have been exercising their rights to personal deductions in Germany, perhaps in this direction in the future, to hold talks and to Slovenia to solve this problem, but I say we leave it for future talks. It's extremely difficult to define who's resident, who's non-resident. And let us not now lose the pace of 15 thousand Croatian pensioners due to perhaps several hundred or thousands of salaries of pay and receiving a far smaller pension, so I suggest that, with the recommendation that the Croatian Parliament also proposes by making a decision on ratification to Slovenian colleagues that they do so. So not wanting to transfer responsibility from the government to the Croatian Parliament but given the good interparliamentary co-operation between the Croatian Parliament and Slovenian, perhaps one such conclusion would not be excessive. However, I consider it only one positive action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41442	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm closing the debate. No more reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41443	Secondly, the Final Proposal for a Law on the confirmation of a contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax avoidance. I'm putting it to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 93 plus 2 is 95. Unanimously, this bill was passed. ... It's unanimous of those who voted. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41444	15th item of the agenda: - Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project of building the Dubrovnik coastal infrastructure, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 326; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure have united the first and second reading, the amendments to the 164th article of the Rules of Procedure can be submitted by the end of the debate. Discussions were also carried out by committees on legislation, finance and state budget, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41445	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I can only be pleased to point out that this is the first of the three contracts to be found in this high House for ratification because a very similar contract for the development and arrangement of the port of Plot is the same before the definition. It's also a contract for Rijeka's port with the World Bank. But what I would like to say is that this contract will finally resolve the trauma of anchoring cruisers in front of the hotel and Argentina and Excelsior because I said in Dubrovnik when we finished negotiations with the RBD that I am sorry for all the tourists who in the coming years when they wake up they will not first look at the cruiser but will still fall to their view of our beautiful Adriatic Sea. So this is a loan at EUR 26.5 million at 13 years with 3 years of starting. In March, therefore, at the moment of talks and negotiations, the interest rate was 3.81%). All construction permits have been prepared, and if the Parliament now confirms this contract implementation of the project, construction works would begin with 15.9. because it is not logical and smart in the course of the tourist season to start such a big and extensive job. So I ask the Croatian Parliament to ratify and confirm this contract so that this very important project for the city of Dubrovnik could be implemented as soon as possible, but I repeat this same similar project is ready and practically already negotiated for the port of Ploće and for the port of Rijeka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41446	Thank you, Minister. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? The committees? None? Legislative, finance, budget, economy, development, reconstruction? Nothing. Thank you very much. We're going clubbing. First, a colleague, Frano Matušić, signed up on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41447	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes and supports this Final Bill on Confirmation of Guarantee Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Dubrovnik port infrastructure project. With this contract, the Republic of Croatia will fully implement all financial obligations arising from the implementation of the contract unless the port administration of Dubrovnik is able to do so. It is about a coastal alignment project in Dubrovnik's port of Gruz so it can be trained to accommodate up to 3 large tourist ships, etc. Cruisers up to 300 metres long. Of course, this acceptance would meet world standards needs to build a brand-new port infrastructure installation network such as plumbing, electrical installations, telecommunications. Then an extremely important solution to the obstinate waters from those same ships and so on. The territory of the Gruž port in Dubrovnik is probably the only building site within the narrow city area where a new passenger terminal may be built through a concession model, even a hotel, as well as sales centres and garages and other facilities that would be related naturally to the tourist offer. What I'm trying to say is that today Dubrovnik is certainly one of the most attractive destinations for large tourist ships to come to, indeed, a very large number of tourists. In order to truly accept world standards as I have already said, it is really necessary to understand that it is a number that already exceeds 450 thousand tourists in one season. When this is compared to the arrival of tourists through Dubrovnik Airport, which today records traffic and greater, somewhere on the border of the largest pre-war traffic over a million passengers, then it is clear to you that it is extremely significant traffic in this part too, through tourist ships, large cruisers. Today it is more than 500 sailing ships, so with a traffic of 450 thousand tourists. In the next decade, this decade, a significant increase is expected to take place in this particular maritime tourist transport, and Dubrovnik is expected to become one of the most important destinations in the Mediterranean, which is, in fact, the port of shipping of these ships and is sure to expect annual growth in the next decade of over 10% for each of the following season. Today, Luke Gruz is, after being killed in the Homeland War, really big, in fact, one half-empty area, which is also suitable for restoration and there will be no major demolitions. It's about leveling the coast. Today, this coast is not high enough for such acceptance and it is absolutely certain that this project will significantly improve this area. However, it should be borne in mind and should be taken into account that this area is also rich in historical heritage, so Luka Gruz is also rich in historical heritage and will need to take this into account first of all when drawing up an urban planning, and of course the citizens of Dubrovnik themselves will say their word in public debate. So we really welcome this decision by the Croatian Government which has recognized the national interest in this project, because actually when 500 thousand tourists are coming to you right now through this port then it is quite clear that they are coming into contact with Croatian culture, with Croatia in such a significant place and that this place of acceptance must indeed be equipped with everything that it should be with. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we support this Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41448	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club, counterpart Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41449	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this is one of the laws that must simply be supported not only but he deserves to say a few words about the reasons and the course of our relations with the EBRD, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, about our most important or most important partners in relation to the relations of the infrastructure systems of the Republic of Croatia, the ecological systems of the Republic of Croatia, and from those starting lines that we had in terms of lending to tourism for war-to-war hotels which took place long ago in 96 and so on, the EBRD has confirmed itself as a solid and reliable partner in the realisation of those projects, of course, which depend on the economic future of each country as well as Croatia because investment in infrastructure systems particularly highways and ports, the coast represents a backbone for generating the development of the entire economy and at the same time demonstrates the commitment of one country to the resources it has. Of course, what the minister said is that the implementation is under way, the finalisation of identical projects regarding Luke Ploca, Rijeka, because it also confirms a single maritime orientation of Croatia, creating conditions for special forms of tourist planning or visits that we have not had so far. Dubrovnik is clearly leading, I agree that it is already leading in the whole region of the Mediterranean and that it is of course a huge challenge, but also clearly this challenge should be monitored by certain infrastructures such as this one, but this challenge should be monitored and the regulated infrastructure of action in those areas because Luka Dubrovnik itself is a non-profit organisation, and it is precisely an opportunity to introduce new systems of communication between public and private partnerships, public and private relations and to create those stimulating opportunities for the development of a whole series of rested economic branches, that is the pyramid that is born in a space where there is a tourist motive and visitation and the creation of some new relationships which, of course, do not have its basis in something earlier. Dubrovnik is indeed one of the most positive examples in this sense of visiting, and it is good that the maritime position of the Republic of Croatia is also confirmed in this way, but it is also necessary at this moment to approach the whole discussion of the strategy on the overall potential of the Croatian Adriatic Sea both in terms of these circular tours which have become increasingly popular as regards Croatia, but also in the design of the answer to the question of how new mega yachts that have come close to the 100-metre limit of certain ports or how to respond to this new form of tourism that is extremely well-income, it is also very demanding and in the nature of relying on such circular trips that bring with it a large number of guests at one point means opening the potential for a wide range of services that can be provided, and this other form of tourism, mega yacht tourism is also available to such content infrastructures as Luka Dubrovnik, as Luke Rijeka, as it did in the last time and Zadar. I am, of course, Mr. Minister, following those words of Cain, which is good for Istria is good for Croatia, of course what is good for Dubrovnik is good for Croatia, but clearly I would like to find places for both Sibenik and the Sibenik port with potentials. Of course, Ministers don't think it's up to you, and I'm sure you'll support it when it comes to you, but, of course, in this open debate, it's an invitation for everyone to get involved in the possibility of achieving these projects that are highly profitable because they create those circumstances that simply cannot be created, rather than in such a large investment that will open the door to everything we need today, which is to create new values, to create new jobs and also to position Croatia as a serious tourist, maritime country in the Mediterranean and the world. Thank you very much. Of course we'll vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41450	Thank you very much, colleague. There are no more reports for the hearing in the five-minute section. The minister doesn't need to talk anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41451	A Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project, a project for the construction of the Dubrovnik port coastal infrastructure. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 88 at the light plus the representatives Kramarić and Marko it is 90 for and 3 abstentions. That law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41452	We are going to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 335 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the proposal in boxes. In accordance with Article 159, the first and second readings were united. Amendments shall be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, Economic, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Representative, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41453	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. We have very important changes to the Public Procurement Act and I would first of all like to highlight and thank the Public Procurement Office which has done a very large and complex job. And I must before I begin to explain the law, that perhaps many of the provisions provided for by this Law have also caused certain misunderstandings and opinions that this may not be good. However, I would also like to say that one of the basic reasons why the amendments and additions of the Public Procurement Act were made is to comply with the legal gains of the European Union, and then here when we align the Law with the legal gains of the European Union then let us not look at that the Law must also provide for certain provisions that will solve our problems in corporate governance in the majority of the state. I think that the responsibility of management in the implementation of laws and regulations should become unquestionable and we cannot ask certain provisions for the European Union to accept us because we may have a poorly solved problem. So, as I said two reasons for these changes, the first harmonisation of the Law with the legal gains of the European Union is the removal of administrative obstacles and the rationalisation of the procurement process. What is important to highlight what makes the amendments to this Act are in the section relating to concepts which were not well-defined by the Law, namely the basic concepts of goods, works and services to new concepts such as the "public procurement contract" contract for public procurement of works and public service contracts for economic operators and the way of purchase. In accordance with the new definitions set out in the European Union guidelines until the full compliance of the basic part of the legislation with the legal acquiss of the European Union, the current concepts and the applicable national provisions on classification of goods, works and services will be used. In addition, many companies will not be bound by law in the future, regardless of the fact that they have a majority share in capital of the Republic of Croatia or a unit of local, regional (regional) self-government provided that they carry out an economic activity on the open market which is not of general interest and which is not the consequence of the specific rights assigned to them which have a significant impact on the ability of other entities to carry out such an activity. Therefore, bonds of law, state and other bodies are state-owned bodies of the Republic of Croatia, units of regional (regional) self-government, units of local self-government. Legal entities which are mostly directly and indirectly financed from the budget funds or which are founders of the state or other bodies referred to in point 1 of this Article which carry out activities of general interest other than commercial or industrial activities for the purpose of obtaining profits, i.e. institutions, agencies or directors, and similar, legal entities established by law to carry out activities of general interest established by law which are not commercial or industrial activities in order to achieve profits in which the state or other bodies referred to in point 1 of this paragraph have a direct or indirect majority share in capital, i.e. business share or have a majority right to decide either direct or indirect majority of voting rights or may appoint more than half of the members of the management and supervisory board. Associations established by state and other bodies, legal persons carrying out one or more activities in water supply and energy, transport, telecommunications under Article 5 of the Law, in all members of the European Union, which is binding according to the guidelines, are obliged to publish a list of applicants to apply the law otherwise, are not possible to distinguish applicants correctly, which is a special problem in our conditions in the Republic of Croatia, as many entities carry out other activities of general interest and other commercial, industrial and other activities with a view to obtaining. These lists are not final, as a rule they are not lists of entities by name, but are lists of activities of general interest which are not intended for the achievement of profits or activities on the basis of specific rights. Such lists in other countries are most often in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance or Economy but in our terms of specificity this is not possible, so this draft is prescribed and I think it is particularly important that, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act, it will establish a list of applicants of the application of this law in the case of incomplete lists such as in Slovenia, state and other bodies as well as legal entities which are bound by the application of this Act, although they are not listed in the list of debtors. The papers are amendments to the part of the exemption from the application of the Law, the provisions on the law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the determination of special interest in the procurement and provision of non-application of the law on procurement between non-binding entities. Legal paper is the possibility of reserve contracts for special employment programmes for disabled persons. It remains the right of the contracting authority to purchase by direct contract, while eradicating the previous obligation to obtain the prior consent of the public procurement office but subject to the public publication of the direct contract and the full control of the public. The possibility of investing an appeal for each interested party in a direct contract shall be introduced. In this way, the responsibility for their decisions is taken directly by the contracting authorities. The new Article 12 provides for cases of direct contract. This is also one of the often criticised provisions by international institutions and the public, with the aim of avoiding any objections to this article, the provisions are fully transposed according to the scope and definition of certain guidelines. In principle, there are two direct contracts, but classified according to bonds, law enforcement and according to the type of procurement. By prior publication of the call for competition, without prior publication of the call for competition in the case of public works of public supply and public service. Full control of the public and the full transparency of each direct contract shall be introduced and published in a public procurement notice in the National Journal, allowing the right of appeal which shall stop the disputed direct contract procedure. This speeds up the procurement process, and the client directly assumes the right to choose how to purchase and also the consequences of their decisions. At the same time, it makes it impossible to hide the contracting authorities behind the consent of the Public Procurement Office so far. The contracting authorities applying the direct contract procedure in the negotiation procedure without publication of the call for competition shall be obliged to make public the decision to select economic operators in the National Journal of the European Union at least 15 days before the conclusion of the contract, and to provide information on the subject of the procurement, the legal basis referred to in Article 12 of this Act, the estimated value of the procurement and the economic operator with which they intend to conclude a contract and to provide the right of appeal to any interested party that could suffer damage. The exception to publication is the calvary conditions, accidents and other dangers. A detailed classification and quality selection criteria are set, which is necessary for a good and functional procurement process, and with a view to simplifying the application of the general law provision, so the newspaper is also introduced in the section relating to the proof of the offerability. The State Commission, exceptionally on the basis of a request from the contracting authority in the event of the possibility of disproportionate damage due to the suspension of the procurement procedure during the appeal procedure, shall be granted the right to decide on the continuation of the procurement procedure and despite the appeal made. The paper introduced in these amendments and additions to the Law is that stakeholders are given the right to object and to appeal to the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure and to the direct contract procedure is also the newspaper that the decision to cancel public competition is given to the contracting authority. Here, ladies and gentlemen, this is a basic summary of the amendments to the Public Procurement Act. On behalf of the promoter, I would like to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendments to the Committee on Legislatives which came before the start of this opening argument and which came out of the debate on the Committee on Legislatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41454	Thank you very much. The Committee on Legislative, Economic Development and Reconstruction, Finance and the State Budget? The chairman of the board is a respected representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41455	Yes, Mr. President. In view of the importance and the paper, the Committee considered and I consider it necessary today and reported, it directly considered at the 34th session of the law in question and on the basis of these earlier introductions at the sitting itself, the introduction of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, pointed out that the proposed amendments to the law on public procurement and the public procurement system of the Republic of Croatia are significantly regulatory and qualitatively approaching in the provisions of EU legislation that regulates this issue. However, the amendments and additions to the law in question did not cover any changes made by new guidelines such as electronic procurement and electronic auctions other than the pilot of the project and others. The reason for only partial adaptation to the guidelines is based on the recommendations of the EU Commission's body to gradually implement the adjustment in two main steps that will adopt a limited number of fundamental changes and additions in the short term to ensure the good functioning of the system until the comprehensive revision foreseen for 2006. The Committee supported the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by emergency procedure in order to adapt the legislation in the field of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU. There were different opinions, so I'm saying some. The opinion is expressed that the law in question should be considered in accordance with the ordinary procedure and not in an urgent procedure as proposed in order to correct the numerous deficiencies observed in its application, in particular in the implementation of public procurement procedures. Next, in connection with the provision of Article 3 of the final draft law, the proposal is supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish lists of debtors by activity or by the name of which this law applies. However, the non-acceptable formulation which obliges the State and other bodies as well as the legal entities which are bound by the application of this law to apply the law even where they are not listed in the list of debtors because that provision raises additional questions and creates unnecessary uncertainty among potential debtors. The following point, Article 5(1) of the final proposal of the law, needs to be amended in order to specify precisely which provisions of this law do not apply. It is therefore difficult to determine what is considered to be a secret or a protection of the essential interests of the State. It should therefore be specified that the provisions of this law do not apply to the supply of goods, services and works marked by a state secret, military or official secret, or where this requires the protection of the essential interests of the State which determines the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the competent ministry. After the debate was held, the Committee supported the law in question and decided by majority vote 6 for and 1 against proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41456	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS, DC, LS respected deputy vice president Đurđa Adlešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41457	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister! I will speak on behalf of our club even though I presented the bill to you a few months ago, both colleagues and colleagues, although I felt that I had received the support of most of you in the debate, it was nevertheless decided to wait for the law that would be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and which should be more quality than the proposal I made. However, I believe that this law too has many shortcomings, of course some improvements. However, to be able to fix the amendments as could be corrected by the amendments and by the law that I have proposed. I hope, then, Minister, that you will accept some amendments and that the law will be better. It is certainly better than the existing because the aim and the applicable law is to regulate the area of public procurement, guarantee greater competitiveness, prevent the discrimination of bidders, increase the transparency of business, rationale the spending of public funds and in fact certain control of taxpayers over the money we all pay together. However, the law did not meet the expectations of the professional public, and even the contracting authorities, we waited long for it, there were numerous exceptions to public procurement, it was determined to whom the law does not apply but we were still the greatest masters precisely in finding those solutions how to bypass the right control and how to bypass the law. It cannot be attributed to just one government, unfortunately, but to the governments as they have changed. I am the bill I offered you, colleagues and colleagues, wrote after an affair with Bechtel and the storm that rose, and then another storm rose at the end of the year and the President of the Republic intervened. Before that, I will remind myself of the same well-deserved storm of the former government when it comes to the purchase of fire trucks. So obviously, we were able to bypass the laws while, for example, our Slovenian neighbours we talked about earlier did not mind that in one government mandate and six times change the law if it is necessary for abuse to be as small as possible. This law is therefore improved, something stronger control mechanisms. However, I also want to make some reservations, but I will also write an amendment or amendments to which the law can be improved. Of course, I will warn of articles likely to warn other colleagues and colleagues, that is, Article 5, paragraph 3, where there is the possibility of certain non-transparency, doubting the correctness of the work done, and therefore I am sorry that the possibility of parliamentary control that I have advocated has been excluded. I was told then that parliamentary control is not common in countries, but if we control the budget on it as well as on rebalancing we spend all days then it would be logical that we can also control something that may rightly be called a parallel budget. In the law that I have proposed, it would be good to accept it as an amendment and in fact something that everyone who goes to public procurement is obliged to attach a statement certified by a public notary confirming, under material and criminal responsibility, that the contractor is regularly paying the net wages to his employees. It is clear to me that many countries do not have it because many countries with some longer tradition and a better arrangement are almost incredible not to pay their workers. Unfortunately, these are not too often excluded for us, so I think it would be necessary to present such a single document because it is known that a contract is concluded with a single company that does not pay salaries to its workers. Certain improvements and the approximation of legal regulations to European existence. However, I believe that we may have been able to further refresh this law, and this may be to accept some new modalities in purchases such as e-procurement, electronic auction, competitive conversation, a framework agreement that falls within international standards. However, this law is likely to change. What I certainly want to praise is the possibility of reserved contracts for special employment programmes for disabled persons who are one quality newspaper, only it will need to be well monitored so that certain abuses would not be detected under such good intentions. There are therefore, companies that are exempt from these laws and are seriously opposed to the proposal is that I don't really know whether quality consultations with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and especially the Croatian Employers' Association have been carried out and I hold that their suggestions would actually be useful. However, I must warn of exactly what could later prove to be a necessary warning, which is that the law will not apply to acquisitions when it requires the protection of the essential interests of the state, I quote, without it being specified precisely, or even about what falls into these essential interests. Or what is even more important is not a specific body, which will decide, or may leave an impression of indeterminateness, the possibility of abuse, if any of the relevant interests of the state. It should be more precise to determine what it is and who will control that particular part. So I come back again that actually parliamentary control might have been necessary in this part, which I've advocated before. Or reporting to parliament, the parliamentary committee, three months ago, there were different models that we should have applied. It is also Article 13, which also changes, that has not respected the proposal for parliamentary control of procurement, is lagging behind, reporting so that we may, during some summer vacation or some time, read in the National Journal of the Government's affairs. I believe that the workers will, above all, resent the possibility for their employers to appear in the competition, not only to report, but also to get jobs from the state, not to pay their salaries. So the law was improved, however, could be more modern, could have had stronger control, parliamentary control and in some elements it was unsettled, we will support it in this form along with amendments and I believe that this law is subject to a very rapid change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41458	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honored Representative Josip Leko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41459	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Since I received the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, I have been trying to obtain data, statistics or analysis, on which this novel was carried out. Does the Government, the Government's Office or the State Commission have information on how much social money must be spent by applying the Public Procurement Act? In European countries, according to statistics that I have explored between 15% and 18% of gross domestic product, it is therefore spent through the application of the Public Procurement Act. If this is added to the fact that the organisation of European security and cooperation places a element of public procurement in the fight against corruption, then this Law could not have been accessed, nor should it have been accessed without a valid analysis of the application of the applicable law either statistically or analytically. Let's take the turn. A national programme to combat corruption and action plan in the fight against corruption, adopted by the Croatian Parliament in March 2002, has seen damage and consequences in the Croatian economy and Croatian society in general. At the same time, international obligations of the Republic of Croatia were also established in the fight against all forms of corruption and bargaining. According to a report by a prominent international organisation dealing with the world's problems of corruption for 2004, the Republic of Croatia has fallen and is taking an ever worse place in the international index of corruption and has fallen to 67th place on a scale of corrupt societies. This led to a further decline in competition between the Croatian economy and the Croatian state in general. This data is even more trendy, we must be concerned and through this optics we should observe the final proposal for a law on public procurement. The idea of introducing property cards for all Croatian citizens was recently placed in public and, for a reason, you can imagine that abuse in the use of social, social care is stated. The government was concerned about social welfare abuses and it is not even 1% of gross domestic product in statistical terms. Public procurement is spent 15-20% in Europe and we are talking about a country in transition where there is still a lot of capital owned by the state or entire companies owned by the state of ships, INE, forests, shipbuilding, even insurance companies and forests and roads that data was not important to the promoter. In observing the problem of corruption, the fact that a public partnership institute is introduced into the Croatian legal and economic system is not regulated by the regulation. According to the experts in this area, the public private partnership falls more under the Public Procurement Act than under the Privatisation Act. But let's go back to the proposal. The government cites two, two reasons, one for amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the guidelines of the European Union, since 2004, and of course that formal harmonisation cannot be just blind copying. Another problem is that the government cites the problem of applying the applicable Public Procurement Act. And this together says administrative barriers and formalism in the competition. However, the applicant does not take into account the state of justice and the slowness of the ineffectiveness of the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia and the long-term duration of the court proceedings. On poor social discipline, on corruption in society and on a high percentage of the economy still owned by the state or in a business relationship with the state. The government does not state as a reason for changing the applicable competition law that the principles, the principle of competition in public procurement among bidders, the principle of transparency in the public procurement process, the principle of careful management and the effective consumption of public goods that are equal to the principles for all countries in the world and the European Union, and we cannot even state from this point of view which the principle has not been applied so far. Therefore, according to our court, it is premature and unacceptable for the applicant to free himself from the application of this Law in public procurement and companies that are in the majority or fully owned of the Republic of Croatia companies that are largely or entirely owned by the Republic of Croatia, units of local, regional local self-government, provided that, under the alleged signs on the open market, they carry out economic activity with restrictions that they do not have a significant impact on other economic operators in carrying out such activities. Translated this means that they do not have an obligation to apply the Public Procurement Act to a company that is mostly or largely owned by the Republic of Croatia, such as Croatian Insurance, HEP, INA, shipyards all or most of them, Croatian Roads, Croatian Forests, etc. If this were to be added to the percentages that stand out in Europe as a cost through the Public Procurement Act, then up to 25% of the Croatian Gross Social Product would be subject to public procurement regulations. Since the Government Commission and the State Commission have not provided us with a basis for such a proposal to amend and supplement the law neither statistically or analytically, we can only rely on our analysis, and our assumptions and assess that the law has of course the best interests. One of these benefits is that the Law provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia falls under the Law on Public Procurement. Then, the law erases the domestic supply that has been allowed so far, it is now prohibited. In other words, it means that the partner who supplied the government or other entities in the domestic procurement, did business freely on the market and thus could use the position on the so-called so-called without competition. open market. Consents have also been abolished and for direct procurement, of course it is not in itself either in plus or in minus but in practice it has created significant problems, simply the Government Office of the Republic was swamped, and when the administration wants to be obstructed, then the administration just has to bury itself, it's a classic way how the administration obstructs work. I'm an administrative worker when he wants to obstruct comes to his boss and asks how I'm going to solve this problem, it's classics and socialism and in every other society. However, what the law did not resolve and had to be resolved specifically for a transition country such as the Republic of Croatia. He was supposed to when he already had a treasurer to introduce a central procurement office. The appeal procedure is not fully worked out, so it will remain that the state commission and the Government's Office seek legal standards or apologize for resolving the procedure. And when they solve it, the Law did not predict who would compensate for the damages if the state commission allowed the public procurement procedure to continue, and the complaint found that public procurement was unlawfully obtained, there is no one to compensate the complainant. There is no solution for a public-private partnership which is logical because this is exactly how private sector stuff is obtained, there is no selection criteria for complex purchases. Namely, even then it was settled in 5 articles, now only one article has been solved, and it is known for all of us that complex purchases are not based on only one element that needs to be viewed is the price. There's a so-called. the most economically advantageous offer that counts far more elements. Such developments in this article are not, or that is, Article 46. The law. All in all, it should be said that in the framework of the European Union, the process of public procurement is increasingly complicated and not loose, not liberal, because I believe that it cannot support the adoption of such a law, because we do not know what effects are obtained in previous solutions, and no one guarantees that this liberalisation of public procurement, while privatisation is taking place, and it should now start to help combat corruption in Croatian society and this was allegedly the goal of these changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41460	Thank you, colleague. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club colleague Antun Kapraljevic, please welcome fellow MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41461	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues from the government, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HNS PGS Club in any case commend the proposal to make public procurement more transparent, simpler and fairer for all participants. All three not only are needed but they are also inevitable, and especially in light of the fact that these changes and additions are well approaching the standards of the European Union or standards of conduct which should at least be partially similar to those of them. And that's good anyway. It is necessary to highlight the improvement in the rationality of the procedure and to remove the need for all regulations, to be cast out because they are inapplicable, so in any case this seems to be a significant contribution to the fact that the rules currently in force are not to be fulfilled and that everything that is strongly represented in society and that we read about it daily in the newspaper. On the other hand, respecting the fact that there is no logic that the legal states, legal entities owned by the state, which are profitable that they act differently from the same ones in private ownership, are here to take care of two facts. The first is that the fundamental purpose and intention of this law is to use taxpayers' money rationally and to avoid manipulation and corruption. Mr Leko spoke of our own corruption rating, so I don't want to repeat this story where we are and what place we hold convincingly about corruption, and the other truth is that just in public procurement procedures, there have been strange situations at the edge of the law, as well as the fact that reports on the work of the state's audit are mostly about public procurement procedures. These two say that it is necessary in addition to liberalisation in drawing up a list of enforcers of this Act to make sure that the whole system does not function without effective control mechanisms. And when necessary, there should be repression in these mechanisms of control. We know what happened in an attempt to contract the construction of a section of highway without a public tender, and we know the same thing about getting some military vehicles, and we hope that such an affair after these changes shouldn't happen. According to this proposal, the list of applicants to apply this Act shall be determined by the Government. That's good, but the question is, who's going to control the government in the public procurement process? And we know there were strangest things said here. I do not understand the provision under which the bonds of application of the Law of the Association established by the Government are. It's probably a couple of state bodies and some weird legal entities and I don't know what associations they are and who that concerns because it's defined as a government-based association. I really don't know what associations they're supposed to be. Likewise, monopolies in the supply of heat energy, gas and other energy are also exempt from the application of this Act and we remember well that we recently passed legislation on the distribution of different types of energy products in which it is proud to point out that this is in line with the best directives of the European Union, commercial activities on which the market will fully function. This isn't exactly what he's gonna do. It is good that the reasons for the exemption from the application of this Law are significantly narrowed down. The list is much shorter, but we don't see the reasons why the Institute of Business Secrets is something among the reasons for exemption from law enforcement. We don't think there's a place for many reasons we know in which way a document or some business can be declared a business secret and we think that there, that we're opening up the possibility and space of manipulation. The proposal introduces additional protection mechanisms for all participants in the procurement process. The contracting authority shall protect itself by extending the possibility of public procurement and making it easier and cheaper while the tenderer is protected primarily by a clear determination of the conditions by implementing the procedure and by increased transparency of the procedure. We know that the public is the only thing that can be a cure for countering malfeasance and corruption, and that's good for these actions to be transparent in any case and to know what, how, who is competing and what is competing for? One of the safeguard mechanisms is incorporated in Article 9 of the amendment and addition and in paragraph 3 and prohibiting the provision of information on the conditions of procurement in a discriminatory manner. Since this is the most common form of manipulation in public procurement, it would also be useful to consider what sanctions should be sanctioned. So if someone gives someone some kind of information about a job that's the subject of public procurement the one that gets the information in any case is in advantage and in any case has the ability to manipulate in the competition and the question is, if someone gives the information that's sanctioned by who put that information in the public? The state commission's right to abolish the suspension of the appeal is well defined. This is good because it speeds up in any case but the question is, what happens if the complaint was justified or who is responsible for the damage? Let's not forget about taxpayers' money, not private equity. So this article 30. I think it opens up the possibility that when a complaint is adopted that it is prolonged and then that if a frog is proved to be founded never to be reparations. The way in which the procurement is conducted is mostly left to the will and needs of the contracting authorities and I think it is the most significant and best amendment of the law because it removes the need to fund purchases and break bigger purchases in a few smaller ones, which was normal practice. It would also be good if the amount of 200 thousand was raised to 500 thousand, which would be realistic and acceptable from the point of view of the purchase costs, and this goal would probably be fully achieved in that case. Article 21, which amends Article 46 of the Law, refers to the drawing up of a report on the reasons for the application of the additional criteria in the procurement but does not refer to what? Where is this document supposed to end? Is it in the orderer's drawer? Should I throw it out the window? I mean, no, it's not defined why it's done. It's actually defined what it's about, but it's not clear what to do with it? And here, in any case, I would like to emphasise the need to be named according to the law in accordance with the standard Croatian language and the usual nomenclature. In this way, some expressions are completely incomprehensible and no one but a proponent or possibly translator can properly interpret them but it is not only the pain of this Law. We've had many of these where there was no idea what or how it was translated. I point out Article 25, where special convenience is given to companies that employ disabled people, which I think is very good and in any case we support and all in all the proposal for an amendment and addition to the Public Procurement Act is meant to do so. There is a good chance that in this short time until the new law is passed, it will achieve the goals set. I hope this passing of a new law won't be some kind of deadline that will, which will be abnormally long because the government has announced that it will make a complete law. All of this, of course, provided that the operating control mechanisms work much better than they've done so far. Namely, the Office for Public Procurement did not have the opportunity to verify the purchase of any of the goods except by order of the competent authorities or at the express request of the supplier who feels damaged. It was the state audit that established that the regulations were not respected. But the state review comes when it's all over and it's usually post-festum. And that's why HNS, the HNS and PGS Club will support these changes and additions, and I hope I haven't defamed or offended anyone in my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41462	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. A representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41463	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Col. Kapraljevic said one claim that does not stand, and in terms of the application of this Act when it comes to business secrecy. There's no mention of a business secret here. It mentions a secret and refers to the supply of goods and services when it comes to the Ministry of the Interior. I think that's what the proposer meant. The Department of Defense of Intelligence and the like. Therefore, what constitutes a state secret, not a business secret, in terms of companies and the like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41464	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41465	Dear Madam Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. So I think we'll all agree that the less the exception from the application of this law, the better it will be for all of us, and the more transparent this public procurement will also be for us, and the greater the efficiency of the public or the better the involvement of the public with regard to public procurement, the better it will be. Without the competition, it was clearly ordered before, and it was trying now. I couldn't believe it, I just read one thing now that according to some estimates at the level of the unit of local administration and self-government only of the city of Zagreb in the health care system, social care illegally says 80 million kuna is draining, and from all the resources foreseen for health care and social care at the level of the Republic of Croatia in public procurement procedures disappears somewhere around a billion and 400 million kuna per year. It may be tenorous, however, and this information is certainly warning. I said that without a public competition was ordered before, it was trying now, but what was allowed in some way by God is not ox. Let's just say that local self-government violates those provisions, and surely there is, we'd crush them like an ant, like a country to no one. And the fact is, both the former and the current government, by direct contract, must have ordered billions of kunas of money. Now some jobs are done by strictly defined companies, for example. bend trains work two or three companies and you can't or have no better words than very much space. But I'm going to say one more time, which is less exceptions than trying to get a public deal, it's going to be better for everyone in this country. What is now of the important interest of the Republic of Croatia for which no competition is required. For example, some military procurement, etc. Okay. I can understand that, however very difficult for civilians. Perhaps in the purchase of ferry in the Croatian shipbuilding industry. However, it is perfectly logical for me to negotiate, i.e. prefer the domestic industry, especially when some like shipbuilding at this point are in need of help. At last, it is necessary to prefer a domestic company to think about it in the European Union. It is also clear that transparency of the contribution and competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia. Before, Mr Leko mentioned something about the decline of the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia and it is clear that inefficient bureaucracy, corruption, administration, etc. This is a good contribution, although at this point perhaps the biggest reason for the decline in competitiveness is the cost of work in the Republic of Croatia. The average cost of working in the Republic of Croatia according to the observed countries in Central and Eastern Europe is around 950 euros, unlike in one Bulgaria 230, Romania about 270 euros, but I want to believe at least as far as wages are concerned that this country will not get close to either Romania or Bulgaria and at the cost of competitiveness itself. But the greatest abuses where can they be? They may be at procurement in public companies either in state or owned by local self-government. We keep controlling relatively well, clearly through the audit of our ministry, but who on the other hand controls these large state-owned companies, I don't know, for example. one shipbuilding, road companies, Jadrolinija, forests, HEP, Inu, Croatian Radio and now not to list dozens and dozens of other companies. There is no fear at the ministry, we have these mechanisms, all of us because of and this political struggle we will engage in controversy with people who lead the same, but what about public enterprises. That's where we just let that segment out of control and let these people be... free to do whatever they want. The truth is, it's overseeing the audit, but that surveillance is I dare say very flexible and there's no difference in state, local self-government is the same. But again, when these cities and municipalities are in response, then we won't forgive them for anything, but the directors of these companies will look everything through their fingers because they are not politically engaged, so let's get over it. In my opinion, when these laws are based on the emphasis of gentlemen should be placed on public enterprises, it means shipbuilding. Let us remember that they have over 9 billion kuna outstanding liabilities on Ina, HEP, Croatia insurance, on Croatian forests etc. and they must in no way be excluded from public procurement especially if this information Mr. Leko spoke of is correct, let's say those companies in the gross social product system participate with 20 and up to 25% there. Now we see something that's amazing if I understood it well, home purchase as it's called, we forbid it, for example. Buying toilet paper for the government without competition, bread for the Parliament, juices for our cities and municipalities, and now we allow millions of jobs without purchase in Ina, in shipbuilding, in Croatian forests, etc. etc. And that's where the question is now who's crazy. So I would like to say once again that the emphasis should be placed on state-owned legal persons, I am speaking now in mind and on a safe turn at an annual level of maybe 20, maybe 30 million kuna. HRT a billion and a half kuna. Croatia's electricity industry certainly 10 to 15 billion kunas, forests with 8,000 employees, as well as maybe 10 billion kunas. I'm talking about that data, that's the figures, but I'm guessing that the trade in that capital of theirs is somewhere in those values, or relations. What should also be done, prefer domestic production, or domestic industry through these public tenders, but once again I will say, let's control these big public enterprises. Finally, it is not possible to clearly also make a distinction when local self-government is in the context of their public systems, for example. Heat energy, water supply, auto transporters, etc. etc. So the less exceptions and at the level of local self-government it will be better than the more transparent public tender procedure at the state level will also be better. What's the point here should guarantee one speed of these procedures, because time is money and that's actually the word. However, here I have just received a brochure given to me by Kramarić and an interesting sentence, that the administrative system according to the author of this text is deliberately complicated, incomprehensible to avoid the possibility of determining the real responsibility of any competent body or person, thus allowing illegal earnings or legalising possible criminal treatment within the public administration and at all levels, and that certainly corresponds to the truth. Let me also transfer a few views of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. They say the Public Procurement Act is one of the laws of which there is certainly great interest, that even before the law was passed, the Chamber of Commerce pointed to its shortcomings, that the three-year application of this law confirmed the fact that the provisions of the law are largely unclear and inadequate. They warned the Office for Public Procurement, the Commission for the Monitoring of Procedure, but did not achieve anything. They would also remind themselves that when the current law was passed, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce argued that the law had not adopted it at the time, and that this is why I am reading their text, given that it was not followed by them or better told them that we had not then adopted it without being prevented by the National Privileges Institute, not a single international contract concluded by the Republic of Croatia, nor did the National Privileges Institute or the Accession Agreement of the World Trade Organisation as well as the Stabilisation and Association Agreement of the EU still have room to try to give priority to public affairs, so to be called, so on. the national industry or the domestic bidder. Unfortunately, this has not been realised and Croatia may have lost this mechanism unnecessarily unnecessarily, even though it itself is a limited mechanism, a limited instrument of protection with numerous and long-term negative effects on the structure of the Croatian economy. I'd just like to note, gentlemen of the Parliament, that it is from 1990 to 2004. Croatia accumulated an external trade deficit of 52 billion dollars. Certainly with 2005 this country will accumulate an external trade deficit of over $60 billion. When there was a debate on agriculture, I said that out of the $60 billion, about $10 billion was spent on Croatian agriculture alone. Just mention that industrial production is in 2004. 78% of those in the 1990s and 39% of the employees working in the same industry in 2005 compared to the number of those working in the Croatian industry in 1990. And then it's no wonder why the unemployment rate at 8.9% in the 1990s reached 18% or 19% today, why public debt and external debt increase, etc., etc. This is just a little bit of one negative statistic that results, among other things, that we do not prefer, under quotes, that national one to tell the economy and all the more so because of attempts to like someone or perhaps the possibility of some commissions being made easier by third parties than by domestic companies. This bill does not contain any amendments to Articles 7 and 23 of the Law of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce suggest that in both cases, the limit amounts of HRK 200 thousand are too low and that for the application of the provisions of the law it may need to increase this to about 500 thousand kunas as well as you, and I understand that if someone wants to manipulate it will also manipulate it with 200 and 500 thousand kuna. Therefore, there is only a need to monitor clearly all these processes so as not to prefer any company for some small or large interests of those who give someone a job on behalf of local self-government, public undertakings owned by the state or the state itself. Further comments from the economy relate to the obligation to repeat public competition in the event that two acceptable offers do not arrive. Furthermore, the 30-day deadline for the selection of bidders is also considered too short for more complex purchases and high value purchases and is proposed here for a period of 45 days, the provision of evidence of the offerability should also be more clearly formulated. In the appeal procedure according to the assessment of members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, it should be regulated by law that the Commission assesses only the basis of the reasons set out in the complaint and that the Commission may repeal the enforcement procedure only if the procurement process is subject to significant errors affecting the choice of the most favourable bidder, the failures which constitute an essential breach of the procurement rules should be taxed, etc. It should also increase the amounts that the tenderer is obliged to pay on behalf of the costs of the proceedings when making an appeal, etc. In one word, I tried to fertilize my speech with this letter from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and it might be good to remove this urgent procedure, or that this legal text goes into such a necessary second reading because it is certainly achieved at the transparency of public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41466	Thank you very much, colleague. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 207(2), it is time for a debate of ten minutes. My colleagues and colleagues, 13.27. I suggest we take a break for lunch. Resume at 3:00 with the same agenda point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41467	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. On behalf of the HSS Club, a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41468	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Proposer, my fellow Members and colleagues! At the very beginning, I will set a hypothetical point of view that such a bill came to the agenda in 2001 when the current Law was passed so that the current ruling majority would vote for it. And would you vote? Of course, 2005 is the year so that answer will of course not be given the right to answer. I would say on behalf of the HSS Club that public authorities in the public sector play a very important role in the market. She's on one side of the seller and the buyer. And that is why, because of this important role that public authorities play on the market, some general public procurement principles that are also presented in the European Union directives, but also every normal national legislation and market relations and public authorities' responsibilities are unchanged on these principles. These are primarily the principle of transparency, openness, non-discrimination and transparency of the procedure. How in the European Union, from the very beginning, and 25 years ago, the Member States of the current European Union have in their own way opened their concerns and respected the importance of public procurement and of public procurement criteria. Today, this segment of public procurement in the European Community is making a little more between 16% and 18% of gross national product or EUR 1500 billion. This only speaks of the importance that public procurement has on such strong economies as the European Union. Of course, in countries like Croatia, the share of public procurement in the gross social product is far higher. And I would say far more significant for the overall national economy, it's far more demanding and far more content. And that is why, by respecting such criteria in the European Union, there are directives that have been adopted and applied to public procurement processes. Of course that was the goal of quality public service, economic growth, job creation, but of course also the fight against corruption. Thanks to such a way of positioning the objectives achieved in ten years of application of certain principles and Directives are contained in the report in the context of the economic reform published in 2004, which says that public procurement prices for the organisation of certain EU Member States have been reduced or the overall quality has been improved by 30%. So a huge effort has been made by countries to organise public procurement as rationally as possible, but also clearly as possible. What is happening in Croatia and what is different in Croatia and who makes it a gray area in supply, in public procurement in Croatia? Of course, right at the beginning, it is said: bad legislation can encourage a gray zone. Of course. But the public administration system is also dominant in all processes as well as in this process. So possible poor legislation can be a condition and a reason, but it can't be the only one. Secondly, the inherited practice in market communication does not have clear notional differences between the free market and under quotes, the free market often puts us in a position that there is almost no legal solution that cannot be bypassed if it wants to be bypassed. It is very indicative, it is very indicative that the existing Public Procurement Act, which was adopted in 2001, is trying to declare inconsistencies with standards, creditors and directives of the European Union, which is of course not true because when the law was passed in 2001, it was in complete compliance with the level of the European Union directive, leaving room for national legislation to regulate it according to its own needs. Of course, the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has opened a new chapter in terms of equal rights in that market competition and for Member States. But it is also indicative that last year, out of the total number, he was about 8 thousand and 700 items that went through the public procurement of the number of complaints relating to those who complained about a particular procurement tender was 9% of the cases. The rest, the other part concerning the Administrative Court has no information on him. What it says is that the system can also be implemented in terms of the existing law, but it depends on the organisation of public administration. They say that one of the most important zones, gray zones, is in our way of understanding public procurement that you cannot verify the process of certain data, that there is no quality of supervision and so on. That we have undeveloped institutions, which is also true. That it can be very easy in practice and in units of local self-government, but also not only in them to have a job that crosses 200 thousand kunas, so let's say a million divided into four small jobs, so you don't need it for it. That it is kind of tolerated in a quiet way and that the law can be played that way. All together, of course, it does not give anyone the right to declare the legislative level solely responsible for the state of affairs immediately and with a saying. And that is why it is very difficult for us at the HSS Club to understand that part of the amendment and addition of the Public Procurement Act relating to the concreteisation of the solution to these problems that were created in practice. Instead of trying to solve them by just introducing elements that will strengthen the surveillance system, which will introduce non-existent practices as practices, which I will introduce that procedures can be checked on the basis of evidence. It simply deprives all these instruments and opens a free and liberal public procurement market that, by the way, crosses the 33% of gross social product in Croatia. The number of companies in Croatia owned by the majority state or state-owned 100%, which are companies that somehow dominate the economic system, they are still the backbone of the system, they are also dependent on transparency, but also on the position of other economic branches and entities on the market. They are a Croatian economy locomotive and still in most cases, especially when it comes to individual branches. As a result, in our club HSS, it is not quite understandable, rather than facing the obvious problems in the public procurement system, the problems that have resulted in various affairs, but above all the problems of inefficiencies, problems that have not been compared to how certain goods have been purchased on the market to compare them with the lowest possible prices, that we have certain applications, certain simulations that will show how public money was available, how goods were purchased, from whom goods were purchased, I don't think we should be ashamed in the Croatian Assembly and talk about not all of which are under the same conditions whether you bought Croatian goods, Croatian product or obtained by foreign goods and goods. National legislation gives us the opportunity for gentlemen to take care of our economy, our production, our employees, our gross social product, and not to worry about how the spirit of those in charge will return. Therefore, we do not need to help those who tasked us to make sure that we repay the debt. No, I don't. We will even help them more if we help our own production as much as possible, rely on our own resources and thus the function of public procurement in the public service is very important. It is very important as a stimulater of the growth of domestic production. Therefore, the principles set out in the European Union directives are principles that are acceptable to us: the principle of rationality, the principle of transparency, the principle of non-privilegalism are principles that are acceptable to both national legislation and national practice in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we have no reason to look for what we do not have, but we must not run away from the problem by leaving the free market and the trust of the manager. Whether in public enterprises, we have managers, good managers or good politicians in those companies owned by the state. It is a very open topic, citizens have an opinion on it and it is evident that entrepreneurship in public companies and has not been very affirmative, has not developed to the end. There is no strength and weight that would guarantee what the minister rightly said, so let's let the manager argue with his knowledge, skills, but also the responsibilities he has under the Company Act manage the resources he has. Absolutely accurate thesis. Unfortunately, the circumstances and conditions in which we live deny us to accept such an attitude with fullness. We need to have reserves, and the reserves are in control and supervision that must be established when we mature as a society not only through our own affirmation of new managers but also through the health of the nation that is being viewed in order to enforce the law, to break as little as possible. Therefore, our reserves are not on the trail of resisting a system that is fully acceptable to free entrepreneurship, the responsibility of the manager and the fact that it is not an important form of ownership but a way of managing that property. That's where we passed school, in the '90s we thought that by changing ownership we would change all of us, the structure of production, and that all together it would flow honey and milk, unfortunately it's not like that. The change in ownership does not necessarily lead to a change in the behaviour and efficiency of production, but exclusively to a change in the way in which companies are managed. So it's less important whose companies are. There is no need to follow the model in which Croatia will survive, run out of important companies and positions. No, the more we advocate that the state be guaranteed in the Croatian economy that it has someone to rely on, but we will not be able to achieve this if we skip one part of the way now and I do not doubt anyone for good or bad managers, but experience teaches us to be completely sensitive to it and do not accept that we give these companies liberalisation in the procurement system because we have no experience, we do not have the institutionalisation of our system, nor have our experience so far given us reason to open up such a liberal approach to such valuable resources and such great resources that they impose. I am in favour of regulating if the state finances someone to know exactly how much they need to be bought in Croatia, whether it is possible to introduce that restriction. Yes, if already the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for example finance the domestic economy, whether it needs to run to Italy immediately to buy equipment or it can be done in Croatia, and we have a lot of such cases. And if the state of Croatia gives money it has the right to expect the farmer to obtain at least goods, so much decency should be given, should he obtain goods in Croatia. So let me get this straight. For these reasons that are crucial to us because liberalisation in this process can lead us to great problems...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41469	My colleague, please conclude the hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41470	...in big trouble. The HSS Club is solely for this reason, and not for reasons not to understand the need to improve the law, we are for improvement, it cannot support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41471	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41472	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna save two or three minutes that my colleague Markov spent extra, so on behalf of the HSP club, we donate to him. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, according to the HSP Club, first of all contains so many amendments and additions that Mr. Ministers would be much more meaningful if you had proposed a new law than proposed these amendments and additions. Secondly, I have a feeling that the bill itself was done at about the same speed as it came to the agenda of this session, because it is abundant in really nomotechnical errors as rarely which the bill that came, of course you didn't write it, but you are responsible for the illiteracy of those who put it together, and these are different spaces, marks, quotes, two-point, interpretations all almost in law, etc. To that end, at least a dozen amendments should be submitted to each article for no-technical reasons only to correct that error. It is precisely for the reasons that I will state later, but also because of this hasty which is clearly written by law, the HSP club proposes that this law be conducted either in the first reading or withdrawn from the procedure to remove all errors and illogicalness, in order to deliver the text in Croatian to the Assembly, indeed in Croatian and Croatian legal terms and in Croatian normative legal standards, and only then to be discussed by the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, the fact that it is not so in itself has deeper reasons than just surface or haste, and it is interesting to say that we at the HSP Club find these reasons in a symptomatic fact that they are also initiators of these changes and we believe the co-creators of these changes are actually strangers from different world interest associations. For example, one of these associations is a famous SIGMA organization that even provides on its website a completely different analysis and assessment of the situation for the Western Balkans, and among their clients, SIGMA are as is the website of Croatia, Bosnia, Albania, Serbia-Montenegro. Of course, their interest in all regulations in the financial area is not negligible and it is really interesting for us, and in public procurement, their function is actually to prepare the ground for the entry of foreign companies into business in Croatia, and certainly not or certainly their interest is not to arrange the state of play and the efficient functioning of the state apparatus in the interests of the users. citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This allows certain freedom for some domestic societies, but that freedom allowed by our court is entirely unfounded. For example, it is unfounded to introduce exemptions from the application of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act to legal persons who are founders of state, state bodies or local administration units who carry out commercial activities in order to achieve profits. And in such cases where legal entities are not financed, however, they are founded by state capital and it is very important to ensure, through the application of the provisions of the public procurement law, as rationally as possible, the use of funds for the supply of goods, works and services, which would, in any event, directly affect the result, i.e. profit and through this tax, i.e. the profit of the State through budgetary income. In fact, we are witnesses and it is really here we are talking about the Public Procurement Act but it is indeed a public secret that when some public tender business gets a job of some companies that are founded by state capital or capital units of local self-government, then these transactions, despite being obtained at low prices in public tender, later the annexes become the most expensive jobs and are viewed through the fingers, for the simple reason that they are founded by the capital of the units of local self-government. And that looking through your fingers, you don't go on the hands of these companies, and you don't go on the hands of those people who are employed in these companies, but you go on hand actually, you go on the hand of actually opening up a space for corruption, for bribery when deciding to draw up these annex contracts that are actually drawn up through this Law. Thus, it is rare that the swimming pool in the city of Zagreb produced by a city company costs twice as much as it cost according to the contract made by public procurement, but you know what the main explanation is, the explanation in these annexes is like this: during the works, there were unpredictable difficulties and then the annexes were drawn up, and then there were 3, 4 annexes, which are actually the total of these three annexes are actually in the total amount of financial twice as much as the basic contract that was drawn up under the public procurement law. And then you look through your fingers because it's a city company, it's a county company, it's a company founded by the capital of local self-government or state or this or that etc., and it's actually about the most common robbery, and on the basis of actually guessing let's tell these companies that are founded by state capital. Therefore, this should be avoided here and domestic societies should be protected in a different way. For example, here are a few comments on the articles themselves. On the amendment of points (a) and (b) of Article 2 of the Public Procurement Act, which is currently referring to the conclusion of contracts after the procedure for the procurement of goods, works and services in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, and the following provisions result in the fact that these are legal transactions and must be drawn up in writing, it is unfounded to prescribe that contracts are public procurement because the contract is always an expression of the will of the parties, regardless of the procedure which actually preceded the conclusion of those contracts. Why should it be written that these are contracts drawn up on the basis of public procurement. It is sufficient in our court, therefore, that the provision that it is a legal transaction and that the contract must be concluded in writing is completely irrelevant to state in this article that public procurement has preceded it. On the other hand, it is necessary to specify and determine the content of the proposed Article 2. In view of the circumstances, in this case, the bodies referred to in Article 4 shall be taken into account. The law cannot have a dominant influence in a company in relation to capital because capital can be a state or unit of local and regional self-government. Furthermore, in the process of monitoring the correct application of the provisions of the public procurement law, we all know this because of the provisions of Article 7 which stipulate that the provisions of this Act apply to the supply of similar goods and services and works. And in the provisions of the current law, and even in the draft text of this new Law, it is not defined or decidently defined or described what is considered to be the same slave, i.e. the same service and works, and this should certainly be much more thorough in order to determine the meaning of this concept of the same goods, services and works for a simple reason to avoid the institutions of the type of famous Bilić, which, if there were doubts whether it was equal or not to similar goods and services in the Ministry, would then be written to him that he, during the last Government, was to give interpretation of the Law, and then to him to interpret the law as it would be with the order with interpretation. So, a man develops into an institution to this extent, that when he was asked to sort of push some business through public procurement, then there was no more talk about competition, the conditions of criteria, and it was not even said that the ministry's opinion was sought but said that we would send Bilic. And then the thing he comes back with the answer right. So the man became an institution, per se. Therefore, these are the things that should be avoided in this law. What, by our court, should, of course, be passed through the whole law as a lay motive and should therefore be underlined is the protection of Croatian companies and unfortunately, or, of course, there is no such thing in this bill. This bill is therefore only another one in our court to exploit our desire to join the European Union and this wish is actually exploited in a way that guarantees foreign capital and ensures good success in advance, so in advance, to ensure that they have good success and that their capital will be well fertilised. And our wishes, for our wishes and interests as we can see from this proposal, obviously we're going to have to make a lot more of these adjustments to this law to get them in line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41473	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41474	It's not an incorrect quote, it's a lapus, it's a Mr. Bajic, not Bilic. So it's not Bilic, it's Bajic and it's still working today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41475	On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41476	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We've talked a lot about the Public Procurement Act, we've never talked a lot, we've come across a series of cases, and here's the coincidence that I'm a member of the committee inspired me so I could speak more emotionally than my predecessors, but I'm still going to leave it to my next speaker for a few minutes, I guess. So, I'm gonna try really hard to put it short. This law is detailed and that's good. There have often been a lot of misunderstandings that we've dealt with in one way or another, interpretations have been all sorts of things and abuses are always as much as you want. We all swear it's best to publish an ad in some daily list plus the National Journal of Normals that have to go because then there will be more offers still. Now I'm going to tell you how this is a nice utility company, a big utility company doing a million-dollar contest is being called but, watch out in the competition, looking for a construction firm that has 15 electric engineers. Awesome. Well, it just doesn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Two firms called. One of them is quietly suggested not to be attacked because she'll get a job another time and the job's gone. The estimated cost of building such a facility was 50% of the auctioned but, dear God, it was legal. Next, we've got one firm that got a job without a problem, and it's got all its competitors. I think there were six million out there. Not long after that, they wouldn't believe a $3 million annex. 50% without a problem, the license went, so it was all legal again. The permit is clear on the direct contract and similar lags. So now I'm asking a question. What about those companies that lost their jobs, who they complained to, how to complain and probably didn't follow or find out because the other thing happened a few months later. The issue of dumping. We follow a little, we watch in one case, we eliminate some small company to get the next job and the same firm that got the job in three, four tenders offers really dumping prices and goes smoothly. So the interpretation of dumping can be done again anyway. So it depends on the commission, depending on the commission that does it, clearly both on employers and the like. What maybe hasn't been changed here and what we expected to change is the unfortunate 20 grand that doesn't actually need some kind of procedure because that 20 grand is so little that just every malfunction, the more serious the malfunction is larger with today's sophisticated equipment and so on. I think maybe one day there's some final law that needs to be lifted. Prices are a lot of repairs. The Chamber of Commerce objectes, saying that even those 200 thousand, the limit of 200 thousand is too small, that they expected more. It's relative, cover that but in time it's lost. So, I'm even trying to keep that 200 grand between us. I think it would be good and that because of what we've heard that 33%, one of the predecessors said, I think that colleague Markov even said that the employers of state and local self-government, that simply by some law, would prevent officials from participating in public competitions, whether those who discuss ministries, were local self-government. Be assured that violations and abuse would be significantly, significantly less. I was in the Union of Cities and Cities two, three years ago, and come on, there was some kind of, there were actually new elections and now I'm listening because at the same time there was a change that instead of three offers there had to be five offers. One mayor said I don't care, so far I've told the man get me three offers, now I'm gonna tell him get me five offers and that's it. So the law can be broken with all these details that we're talking about here. How contracts can also be manipulated can be by breaking a contract. It can be very difficult to talk about the same kind of thing, but then we can change the word, two, then a little one contract up to that much, the other to that much, so the limits can break here too. So, there's a lot to be careful about. The direct contract is always very, very sensitive. I can get licenses, too. So we can go to such direct contracts, we will find a valid reason, but in any case, it is the elimination of many who may be more favourable, who should certainly participate in such a competition because we know that good competition is very low in prices. We're saying there's no surveillance. Well, I don't know, with us, the state review was really common, it was every minute, all of our contracts were reviewed until in detail, so we got an opinion on local self-government, that's what's done. I don't think the review was that poor, state-run audit when it came to the ministries. It was, some of them were, and they skipped, and we didn't get nearly as detailed a report as they did in local self-government. And finally, I agree that everyone, that the procedure should be well described, that it should be well monitored, that it should be well controlled, that it should be protected, that I agree with the predecessors, the state interests as far as possible and wherever possible. So this law contains pretty much everything together, so the HDZ Club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41477	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41478	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! This proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement indeed has several, in fact I would say a whole series of very good solutions that have created doubt and then a duress in the application of the existing Public Procurement Act. This is, above all, the paper, which deletes the provisions on government law, government law, so far the government of the Republic of Croatia's right to determine special interest in the procurement, and the direct contract. So there's a whole series of good solutions. However, all of these good solutions will fall into the water if the government stays with this newspaper that eliminates all these good attempts, which is that many companies that are, that is, all companies that have their own, in which there is no majority share in the capital of the Republic of Croatia, so it is with those companies, with those companies where the Republic of Croatia has 49%... They are not covered by this Act or the Amendment to the Law on Public Procurement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's something that's not good. It's something that's basically dangerous and it's not good first of all for a public change that's in the public procurement of suspicions. And that's why transparency is the best way. And there's no obstacle whatsoever because the way I do other good provisions is enough and the guarantee that public procurement will go quickly, transparently, is very important transparent, so why this provision? She's reopening the doubt again, she's reopening her suspicions with the public. This is not particularly good for Croatia at this time when the eyes of our public and others in Croatia are against corruption. We have exactly this very unfavourable piece of freedom house. So, houses that give full analysis every year in 27 post-Communist countries, transition countries. In that report, Croatia also received the worst score for corruption this year since it was observed, along with Serbia. So, we can't have, you're allowed these provisions at the moment when the eyes of the public are, I say, and it's especially important for our local public to face this problem. This is how we open up big doubts because 51% or 49% of the potential for this kind of action is high. It's just as good, and I'd say that in this part of it, it's a good solution that the appeal doesn't have a suspension effect. But already when we talk about complaints in any procedure, then one small absurdity that is precisely because of the principle of efficiency, speed and speed of action at the end and efficiency of the state and in this public procurement procedure that the complaint does not delay the execution. But then why did we go back, and here I have to go back to that executive law where she usually postpones in practice the solution. So when it comes to citizens,... We don't care if he's a believer, we're not interested in the expedition, and here under the parole of expeditionivity and urgency we want to introduce this institute where the appeal doesn't have a suspension effect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'm saying is that it doesn't have to be bad in itself if it's done in a transparent way and I say I support a whole series of good solutions here that have really created a big doubt, but I appeal that the Government cannot afford, because of this moment, or a good solution in itself, that such companies, unless the owner of Croatia is over 51% that this Law does not apply to them. After all, this has already caused great confusion in both the public and the great condemnation of the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41479	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Later, after the representative delivers, I've already called him, you pick up in time!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41480	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The purpose of the Public Procurement Act is essentially two objectives, one objective should be to ensure the protection of public, or budgetary money and another fundamental objective of such a law should be to ensure the protection of a fair and fair competition on the national market. And then speaking of it in every sense is any law better than any law. Since there was no other practice of public procurement in Croatia, it has a decade-long duration, so there is no exceptional practice as it seems, in particular, how certain problems arise within the public procurement process are solved, then in any case, there is a need to complement and correct the law and rules which determine the public procurement process and precisely through the basis of the experience that we have with, from the procurement process or in this case with the experiences that the European Union has, that is, through the guidelines that this European Union imposes on us to apply. And that's certainly good. It is good if we achieve these two objectives and if the changes that go into this contribute to achieving these two objectives. What would it mean to protect the use of public money? This would mean that you can use this public money for the purpose for which it is intended to seem completely transparent, that it makes it absolutely accessible to the public and to the citizens. On the other hand, the protection of the competition should be that everyone can apply to the same criteria and be the ones who will use that public money to meet the needs of citizens. So, those who compete within Croatia and who have seats inside Croatia but also those who have seats outside Croatia if it comes to major international competitions. What we have so far had a problem and what we do not do with this law are public competitions that exclude the Public Procurement Act, i.e. competitions that are based on various international contracts. Unfortunately, then, this Public Procurement Act does not apply and, unfortunately, domestic bidders are mostly in a discriminatory position with regard to large multinational companies that have a lot of reference and which are about and by contracts already, as they would say, affected by these transactions. In my view, it is a good solution that companies that are largely largely owned by the budget, regardless of whether it is the budget of the state or the units of local self-government, are no longer able to get a job on the basis of Article 6. However, I think that too little time has been left, and that is only three months, for these companies to adapt to organisational, functional, governing answers to this Law or to be able to compete in public tenders on 1 October, which will obviously then be called for all those jobs that will come after 1 October. I would suggest to the Proposer to extend that deadline to at least six months, or at least until the beginning of next year. I am not sure that companies owned by the state and local self-government units will be able to adapt within 3 months to respond and apply to public tenders. There are a lot of employees in these companies, and we think we should give a little more time but then apply this law in that sense. What was a problem in the application of the existing law is the discriminatory rights of some, i.e. the possibility that some investors applied. First of all, this refers to the criteria of similarity. There seems to be something here, but I think it remains quite vague again that it is understood in Article 17(3) of point 4. it is changed and it is said: "that the offerer and the competitor has not fulfilled all the obligations of the previous contract due to serious professional failure." I think it is absolutely incomprehensible and that again leaves complete discretion to the person who issues any confirmation to issue it or not and leaves the possibility for the bidder to regret that a certain discriminatory, discrimination in obtaining that confirmation has been applied to it. I think you should say exactly what it means to be serious, professional, serious, professional failure? Which means fulfilling the contract, not leaving the possibility of it being freely interpreted. In the same way, I would argue that, in the case of similarity criteria, we should say in Article 18 that a confirmation must be made that the offerer has a collective contract or if he does not apply a "border" collective contract for his employees. So not only does he pay the wages requested by counterpart Adlesic, but I think that we as advocates must be in order for our workers to be fully protected. Not that the employer reports them on minimum wage, pays them minimum wages, doesn't pay them their work on Saturdays and Sundays, doesn't pay them overtime, but we do if the budget money is invested, and if Croatian citizens pay some goods and services, they have to be sure that those working with that employer will be paid by the basis of a "grand" collective contract or if it is more favourable for employees to have their collective contract for the company. It's here when you look at international contracts, and when you look at big competitions, then you know that's where contracts are made based on what's called the so-called. A fiddice. Fidik has one whole chapter that talks about the relationship between workers and employers, about the protection of workers, about wages, about protection of work, and so on and so on. Never, we have a public tender in the national frameworks, then we can easily shut it down, skip it, and let someone get a big, huge job financed from city, municipal or state budgets, and for example, have registered workers on the minimum. As far as I am aware of the application of the article, the existing Article 46 has so far been almost impossible in that section relating to additional criteria. I have some information that the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure has brought down all the tenders that applied the additional criteria, and where they were, where the complaints were. I do not know how the commission will respond, for example, to the fact that you have said that you have applied several points or additional criteria for aesthetic criteria when, for example, building a sewerage network. You can do it by this law. You could have done it under the existing law, but I repeat, the state commission crashed all such competitions when someone was complaining. I think it should be defined, therefore, that the most economically favourable offer is indeed not an offer with the lowest price but to say what are the additional criteria and to say that they can be specifically evaluated, rather than leave the possibility for the state commission to say whether they have been used or not? And what has been misused so far is exactly the appeal procedure. Those who did not get the job, those who could not get the job in any way complained, obstructed the tender procedure for three days and eight days and 15 days, and then the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure made it difficult for two months because there are a lot of cases and eventually maybe the competition was brought down and there was an obstruction because no budget money could be used for the purpose for which it was intended. And I have a concrete example for you where the state commission did not recognise as a credible document in the tender documentation printed registration of companies from the website of the Trade Court certified by the public notary because he said it should only be the original or the copy of the original. So at the moment when we're talking about the rapids, the state commission said it wasn't a credible document. That's why she crashed the contest. So I think that, here, we need to work out a lot better who and under what conditions can complain and prevent those who do this orderlyly work. So those who haven't had any chance of getting a job today have a chance to complain about it. In particular, they have an opportunity to complain about direct transactions because it is said that any economic operator with an interest in this supply can virtually complain about such procurement and obstruct such procurement process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41481	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, I'm sorry before that, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41482	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to perhaps try to clarify certain things that change in this Law and based and principled remarks, and all I think is that the question that might be the most controversial question is that this Law would allow many companies that are also owned by the Republic of Croatia to not be bonds to actually be purchased through, based on the Public Procurement Act but provided that they carry out an economic activity which is not of general interest on the open market. And there's real now, we're in one thing to say and the doubts were how and act under these conditions because most of them have companies that are mostly state-owned, which deal with the activity that's on the market. So it is not a monopoly and with that position, therefore, the public procurement of many of these companies have come into an unfavourable position. But what is fundamentally a problem for me is that when you look at a public procurement system in banks that are mostly owned by foreigners, you can be sure that they have far more stringent criteria of public procurement actually than is prescribed by our law. But why? These are the criteria that their management has brought. And we can't really drink everything legally, but the basic problem is that the people that the government has appointed, who have been given confidence to manage the companies in the majority state property and these companies are engaged in activities that are competitive on the market so they don't have a monopoly status, they should be the ones who would be bonding with the regulation that they're going to carry out the purchase, but the procurement that won't stop them from taking to the construction of a company that, let's say, take a gas station. INA or any other, who, who has gas stations owned by INA, is here in a far more unfavourable position. Now, let's not talk right now if INA doesn't conduct a tender under this law then there's gonna be a crime or something like that. So management has to offer a model of public competition in such cases that will guarantee, I mean guarantee practically almost lead to the impossible to happen some kind of embezzlement, some kind of malfeasance. But we also cannot insist on the implementation of this Law to state-owned enterprises that will put them in a more unfavourable position on the market. And so it was these two misunderstandings about how to put yourself in such a situation. And that's the basic problem. So I fully understand what the distinguished representative Anticevic was saying, but we must discuss both this problem and the other segment. So on the position of these state-owned companies on the market. How many can they be set up? But I repeat, if we saw the rules for procurement in society, let's say we start with banks or any larger corporations that are present in Croatia or the majority owners are foreigners then we would see that these criteria are far more stringent, far more sophisticated than those we have proposed and clearly know the rules of the game. So that's the thing about people who run companies, they have a responsibility to prevent what's often heard about today all morning and this part of the afternoon debate here. So it is their responsibility to prevent it, and the government did not go in that direction to free them from certain malfeasances. We will likely by the government's decision that they are obliged to submit their internal documents on the implementation of public procurement in the part in which it relates to them. But I'm also saying that it was a big misunderstanding for the government how to solve this problem in the law itself. Because if we leave them under the Public Procurement Act, in a certain way, we make it difficult for them to be in one market game, and on the other hand, if we liberalize them again to do what they want, we're putting ourselves in a situation where what we don't want can happen. So it's certainly what we talked about in the government when we passed this bill that all these companies, so the management of these companies, will have to adopt their rules on public procurement, so they won't be able to do what they want, and in such a way we think that we will satisfy both things, so that on the one hand they will control the purchases in these companies, and on the other hand we will not be able to slow down those companies on the market. But what is very important and what you would like to say is not a final amendment to this law. It is at this point, we are waiting for some further guidance from the European Union which is likely to happen by the end of the year and then we would completely go with a new law that would be in line with those two guidelines that should be adopted by the end of the year. I'd like to say that, I think colleague Rozic said that this law has so many amendments that it would be a better day to make a new law. We have been thinking about a new law, however, at the moment when we learned that new guidelines from the European Union are coming in, then we decided to amend the law, and when these guidelines are passed, we will probably go to a whole new law that might allow us to do some more things that are even more quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41483	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41484	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Not only in business circles, but in general in public procurement, it has always been a great deal of attention, and the frequent political bickerings we have seen for a number of years, related to public affairs contracts and public works, have in some way cast general doubt on all levels, regardless of whether they are units of local self-government, companies owned by them, whether it is a county, whether it is a state level and companies that are also owned by state-owned companies. However, such an image in some ways is the result of often certain political relations and bickering, but I believe that in most cases, in large cases public procurement at all levels has been carried out in the spirit of the law. That's my opinion, and I think we should start with that fact. What matters when it comes to the law that is before us is the following. That the proposed amendments and additions proposed by the Government bring this law into line with the legislation of the European Community, the European Union, mean European directives. On the other hand, this is also one contribution to transparency and public procurement as such. There, he would agree with counterpart Anticevic, who said that the law itself will not contribute regardless of what he looked like, will not contribute to the public's belief that what we do is right and true, but that data, the way of working from the procurement process to the conclusion of the contract must be publicised, must be publicised by all interested but not only by them, but in general the public. On the other hand, I would point out that these proposed changes are going towards giving greater confidence, I would tell the contracting authorities, both state and state-owned companies, state-owned companies and lower levels of units of local self-government. I find that positive. This is in no way the liberalisation of public procurement but one new chance, I would say one trust that should be between the contracting authority and the service provider and which should be present in some way among all those who are competitors of a particular job. The very process proposed by these amendments and additions also goes in the direction of its simplicity, and what is most important I think it respects the fundamental principles of public procurement as such. Since the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not only said the minister but also said it in the materials, they said that somewhere early next year it would go to the Public Procurement Act, which would be let's say fully in line with European gains on this issue. In a way, it also eliminates some thinking in terms of whether this should be first or second reading. I'm also on the Committee on Economy, together with my colleagues we've been in the same dilemmas, but all together if we look at and start from the observations made by the Chamber of Commerce I don't think there are any elements that they don't touch the essence of the proposed changes and the addition to going to another reading. Personally, I have some remarks, so let me take my chances. I am interested in Article 4(1) of gas and heat. I think these two activities when it comes to the production and distribution of gas that it becomes the subject of a competition. He's no longer municipal, so he's not a public service, and I don't know if he should be treated in this law. I will certainly mention that in Article 7 of the current law, the applicant did not go to intervention in terms of limit values when it comes to public procurement and when it comes to limited and offer collection. It is my opinion that these borders should raise the main limit of 20 thousand kuna as the lower limit when the client is obliged to collect 5 or more offers. I would certainly like to highlight the good interventions of the proposings in the way they are obtained and in articles 9 to 14. of the existing law. In this way, it enables companies and generally contracting authorities, specialization, typing, which has often been impossible to do without being wrong about the existing law. On the other hand, it is possible for all levels, so that the contracting authorities can obtain certain goods services at far lower prices than they are marketable in terms of some convenient sales. Also when it comes to the purchase of bankruptcy and the societies that are in liquidation there is a direct contract and I think it is, and not until now, to be formally any manager in any municipal society or in any institution to be bound by law and not to be able to take advantage of the opportunity that exists. This is in no way liberalisation, and the promoter well stated, put, installed, in these proposed changes and complemented that all these jobs must be published 15 days before the signing of the contract in "The People's Newspaper". I think that's exactly what the public procurement principle is. I also consider Mr Minister that in Article 18 of the proposed amendments in the last paragraph concerning financial statements, as regards the previous three years, it should be deleted if those data are available. Namely, there may be a habitual dilemma there, I know that, that the proposal is related to the date of establishment of a company but I think, in my own opinion, I'm not a lawyer, but I think there may be a habitual dilemma about it and that it should be deleted and I think that the chamber has put certain remarks about it. Certainly when it comes to Article 21 of the amendment and the addition of the Law, I am glad that these criteria are the economic and most favourable offers other than the price, the additional criteria that can play a crucial role, I think that they are very important and that just the lowest price does not always have to mean the most favourable offer, I think that this is a good approach and that we need to support it all together in some way. In Article 25, the intervention in Article 61 when it comes to the existing Law, when it comes to the selection of tenders, I also consider it good because it is given priority on the condition that offers are in egal, favours companies that employ 51 or more per cent of people with disabilities. Today it was also a matter of national privilege, I think it is declassified to talk about a country that plans to be a member of the European Union to even mention it and to conclude it. I support the amendments and additions of the Law, I believe that it will simplify the process and make life easier for all those involved, so that the bidders who participate in the procurement process. I welcome the greater trust in the relationship between the client and the bidder, and certainly what I think is the most important quality and better information in the public that is proposed in these amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41485	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41486	I thank Mr. Vice President, I will join all those who, of course, support our government's every desire to regulate an area that is very sensitive not only in Croatia, but in the world as a whole, and in particular in our country, I will say that I repeat that I do not know which times we are in the situation that this moment the state through its ministries and all its organisations is one of the biggest employers, so it is an extremely interesting market for our entrepreneurs to compete on. So, that everyone who participates in this, and not even the MPs, are probably the most interested in introducing as much order as possible, as much less abuse as possible, and as clear and transparent as possible, so that I say in some way, I'm going to be more inclined to comment on those who want to compete in individual competitions, and who also want these competitions to be as transparent as possible, to make it easier to choose the best bidder, and then the conditions under which jobs are agreed are available to everyone, that there is no time-losing time in time, that there are no additional material costs and everything that we have to say at that time, so I would just refer to a few articles where certain questions are being asked, so I suppose, in the final words of the Commissioner will even help solve some dilemmas. Therefore, it is not clear to me whether Article 3 will also apply to those legal entities in which the State has a share if they are engaged in commercial activity and the question arises whether these entities are also exposed to the market or are eligible for the burden of public funds. So, are they in line with everyone else or are they privileged? The question in Article 5, since it is sensitive topics of international contracts, is particularly relevant to the transparency of the procedure, I ask whether these procedures will also apply to the basic principles of the Public Procurement Act or will be totally excluded and fully normised by certain other regulations or laws, which I do not understand. In that article, I suppose there was also a confusion, so Article 5 states on procurement activities which include water supply, if the client therefore, I consider that this is not about the client, but about the bidder, probably that concept in translation or I don't know what wrongly stated, so if the bidder deals with one of the activities that are of communal or public importance, so either energy or gas supply, or water supply, then it's in some position, and not the client, I guess that's where it came from, just take a look at it, just for a change of terms or for a copy, and that applies to the bidder. In this case, where it is said that, for the purpose of further sale or lease, the provision of services or the execution of works... may be agreed if the value of the purchase is not equal or greater than the value for which the publication in the European Union's vote is to be made, the question and the uncertainty which these works may be considered to be carried out for further sale and which, I suppose, will be regulated by some additional regulation. Also in Article 9, when it comes to the negotiation process, my question to you is whether any procedural provisions will be further laid down in a procedure where this would be more detailed because it could result in a different non-performing if it is not specified in detail what is considered a negotiation procedure listed here as one of the options. Also, let me just manage a little bit because there are a lot of articles, the question arises when to provide a job with some banking or other financial instrument, which is considered to be under that other financial instrument. I think it's enough to say the proper banking so that these words can be deleted for reasons that this concept is relatively wide and allows for the avoidance of the legal provisions that dictate right now, should exclusively dictate that only official banking documents. In addition, where any participant in the competition wishes to compete, he shall make statements on his business and on all the information required, in my opinion it should insist exclusively on official authentic documents or certificates by the relevant authorities of the state administration which issue them and which are the only criteria of certain capabilities which can be verified, exact and not a declaration which may otherwise be displayed. Also be kind, the question arises, since we have all talked about liberalisation, and it is good that we are an open market, but the system of evaluation, therefore, in the case of documentation, and the whole process should be done so that as many objective criteria as possible are prescribed for choosing the most economically favourable offer, because here it is left at some level of the one who reports that I am an estimate that indicators are better and that are worse, and in my view should be an objective criterion for the whole country equal. And I wouldn't be too much longer, I hope you'll solve that dilemma, which today causes just extra costs and some of our ministries, because he's been in the process of getting the circumstances, I'm familiar with some specific cases, so where there have been certain complaints, lawsuits, the job has been standing, the foams have been running, the interests have been accounted for, the state will have to pay them, so it's not always the one who's been competing and who's eventually lost his job but also the one who's been calling for damages and the state should protect itself, so the one who's calling for a case where, after a court or any other administrative case, it turns out that one of the parties had damage and was right. And I hope that very soon we will have a new Public Procurement Act in the autumn with even more detailedly elaborated these remarks which could now only go in the form of amendments. I have not given these amendments, but I hope, therefore, that the promoter will resolve some of the dilemma in his address after our steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41487	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41488	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act where it is evident that the Republic of Croatia is a country with a very short tradition of editing the area. However, for such a short period of time, the effects that arise as a consequence of the arrangements of the public procurement system in practice are seen. This law is certainly one of the laws for which there is a great interest in the wider social and particularly economic public of those who are bound by the application of the prescribed procedures to the supply of goods and services or those which appear as providers of those goods and services. The work on making the Public Procurement Act is divided into two parts. In the first part, there are amendments and additions, and in the second part is the proposal for a new Public Procurement Act that we expect in the process by the end of the year. In any event, the adoption of amendments and the addition of laws will allow assumptions for the adoption of government regulations which will operate on its provisions. We expect the new law to enable the transparency of the procurement process itself, the protection of all participants in the proceedings as well as its simplification. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction held different views on the need to adopt this law by emergency procedure yes or no. My personal opinion is that this law should go into procedure by emergency procedure. The emergence of this law has made one important step away from the previous practice of contracting between the state and the private sector. And the legal arrangement of this area has tried to achieve greater competitiveness, to allow equal conditions for all bidders and to achieve greater transparency in the business of the contracting authority. We must not forget that the effects of public procurement are also reflected in other important areas for the functioning of the state but also strengthens public confidence in the work of the state and the prevention of corruption. We must certainly be objective and say that the amendments and additions to the Law on public procurement occur in extremely complex circumstances of the transitional period but also at a time when the other members of the European Community are in the process of adapting their legislation in the field of public procurement. The amendments and additions to the laws relate to a series of concepts which have not been laid down by law but also by many companies in the future will not be bonds of application of the law, even if they have a majority share in capital by the state or unit of local or regional self-government, on the condition that they carry out an economic activity that is not of general interest and are not the result of specific rights granted to them which have a significant impact on the ability of other entities to carry out such activity. We must also take into account the specificities of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the other countries of the European Union because Croatia is a far greater share, since Croatia has far greater share of state capital in companies than in the countries of the European Union, so that a little more than 15% of the total money is spent in the European Union under this Public Procurement Act and in Croatia the amount is significantly higher and more than 1/3 of the total money is spent through the Public Procurement Act, which is even more important in the application of this law. I'd like to take another chance and draw attention not only to the domestic companies with whom we are quite rigorous in the adoption of this law. I would like to say that we have international tenders where, mainly because of the incompetence and incompetence of our companies that are not even able to offer consortiumly, to make their offer for the job, so it happens to say, I will say, in the construction of platforms that are called by INA Adjip, mostly Italian companies that are obliged to give 50% of their jobs to Croatian companies under the terms of the tender. However, after the job was no longer done via Viktor Lenco, through which up to 53% of Croatian companies were able to raise in the construction of the platform, it happened that here is now our share between 10% and 12% and thus is played by an international tender that is called but guaranteed that half of the work will be obtained by Croatian companies. And in the end, we certainly need to support this law, so that's what I'm going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41489	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, members of the government! I must say that when this law was passed in 2001, a great battle and a great debate took place on national perks. At that moment, HDZ representatives, I took the effort today, and I also read a phonogram that was then, today's minister and then Ms. Marina Matulović-Dropulić, saying on behalf of the HDZ Club, that it should be done and that this law should be classified as a national advantage. I'm taking the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister here who are the reasons why the national privilege isn't included in this law? At that time, it was also said on a large door and in large words about the need to protect the Croatian industry and Croatian production. Therefore, there are reasons for including national privileges. Or one is said when the party is in opposition and something else entirely works when the party is in power. I would also like to hear the reasons, given that the Committee on Economy has also received comments from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, they have given something in the amendments' proposals, but then a representative of the Government or the Public Procurement Office for a short period of time did not show any of these remarks. I would, however, do so for the public and for the public to talk about what sentence are some of those remarks that I consider important. The first thing is in Article 4(2) when it is said that the Government, on a proposal from the ministries and together with the Public Procurement Office, will make a list of ministries, legal bodies, legal entities which are required to comply with this law. However, it is an interesting sentence that states and other bodies, as well as legal entities that are bound by the application of this law, are obliged to apply this law even if they are not listed in the list of debtors. If we want to make it this way again that the state bodies, the Government Public Procurement Office, simply don't do their job and give them the green light in advance so they don't do the job properly. I personally believe that if someone or some company or legal person in majority state property is not on the list to exempt himself in that case, otherwise we have legal uncertainty and it seems to me that the time has come when we must not approve that the state bodies are doing their job, or that someone does not do their job for them and the consequences. The second thing I want to look back on is Article 46(3). It is clear to all of us, and these amendments to the law, however, give a stable view of my personal opinion not enough progress in the public procurement process because I agree that the price cannot be the only criterion of quality or to get a job. However, it seems to me that such a structured article, or paragraph 3. The 46th paragraph is not sufficient and I propose that sublaws be regulated in more detail by the Ministry of Public Procurement, together with the Government's regulations. I'm aware that it can't be done in one law because if you order and, Mr. Vice President, I think you still need a little more peace. So if the client wants to agree with someone, then without clearly specified details about certain criteria, I'm afraid we'll come back again and there will be doubts about the public procurement process again because if someone wants to agree, then they will adjust their criteria if they are not more clearly prescribed under the regulations. Of course, here we have and I have an objection to complaints, which was given by the Chamber of Commerce. It seems to me that the deadlines for appeal or appeal for public procurement should go according to the number of working days, not in the number of days from the time when the solution is obtained. The number of working days is much more precise, better and quality because it can happen that we have any holidays, either Saturday, Sunday as unworkable days, and then we bring some or any bidders, either often investors in an unfavourable position, which I think if we want a better solution to this Law we need to change. These are just some of the remarks, I think this bill is still a step forward. However, I would also like to hear additional statements particularly related to the national advantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41491	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41492	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I adhere to those who appreciate that the proposed text of the law is what is acceptable and that the text of the law is the one that completes, I would say, the shortcomings of the earlier one, harmonizes us with European practice and can indeed give far more quality effects in application. Alki, too, must in some way only turn to two points that are difficult to accept in this law and when we say whether or not we are in a dilemma whether or not to give support to this Law, then precisely because of this one dilemma remains the question of whether I will personally support it. What dilemma is that? It is evident that this dilemma is the one that speaks about Croatian specificities and therefore some of the provisions of this proposal might not be a good thing to apply. I therefore think that whoever is talking about the market economy will not dispute the proposal, which says that companies and in the majority ownership of the Croatian state should not apply the provisions of this law if they are engaged in competitive activity. I think it is something that is in line with European practice. Something that really means better quality competitive relations. But let's get back to Croatian practice. And at that moment, a provision that is quite acceptable when applied to Croatian practice becomes the opposite. And what is the specificity of Croatian practice? Let us first assess the national audit reports from year to year concerning both companies and the state. The main comments of the State audit are to be made on the application of the Public Procurement Act. At the same time that the findings in many of the observations of state audits and companies and administrations, regardless of whether it is state or local, are being changed, accepts suggestions from year to year, removes shortcomings, unfortunately the slowest, at least in this particular issue of the application of the Public Procurement Act. In the application of both state administration and local administration and companies, they also show a tendency to use corruption. And it's clearly major government audit reports. So it's a Croatian practice. What is another Croatian specificity compared to European specificity? It is that the Croatian state still owns above 50% and in... companies where we have a market, commercial activity of these companies means that they are not only engaged in providing public services, providing, I would say monofilament activities, but unfortunately... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This also applies to shipbuilding when we look at a part of the energy sector that does not deal with distribution and, of course, when we talk about the financial sector, when we talk about Croatia, insurance by the basic bank or business bank and what is called the Croatian Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is evident that we are owners of a far larger package of shares than it is practice in Europe. So we need to know that this is a Croatian specificity. And that's why Europe is essentially trying to say that in companies engaged in mono-complete activities where majority owners or I would say public services are provided and that part of the commercial business in that part or market business should not be engaged in public procurement, in Croatia the situation is quite different because we have not completed the privatisation processes. So there is one question, then, whether these provisions that are logical to apply in terms of Croatian characteristics, I would say, given Croatian specificities. And, of course, it is evident that we have to take very seriously the reports that speak about Croatian reitting on bribery and corruption because it is not bribery and corruption itself, I would say the charge of politicians, the bearer of the executive parliamentary authority, but it is evident that corruption is what happens in commercial societies and that is what also affects the assessment and rating. And precisely because of these I would say the characteristics we have in Croatia precisely because the government has a programme to fight corruption remains the question of whether it should insist on what is acceptable for Europe, which is also logically quite acceptable. And it would really be a shame if this law that cannot be found with larger objections had in it I would say this possibility to economic operators in the majority ownership of the state to be able not to apply this Law. It is said here that serious companies, let's be honest with Croatia's insurance and the INA and the Post Office are really companies that should have their own regulations on public procurement, do not have them, do not believe that they will even bring them in. I don't think he'll stick to it, why? Because when we observe the implementation of the current law in the State Audit report, we see that there are abuses, I would say not applying the law is quite present in these companies. Therefore, we are aware that there will be no significant change in the behaviour of these companies, that this will again affect negative assessments of I would say the government's battle against this evil called bribery and corruption. And therefore, assessing that no internal acts would be adopted or let alone applied, but if the internal acts of that moment were brought, the procedure would not matter, either would I say, change. They'd be permanent again. They'd be commissions again. Afterwards, it is only a matter of course whether a public procurement monitoring committee would, probably not, be present, so perhaps at that last stage, shorten some deadline, but again also competitions and elections and commissions and first competitions, the second and then probably the role of the commission would take over some supervisory body within the company. Five is a procedure that will not significantly cut deadlines. It's not gonna cut the deadlines. And that's why it's hard to say that they're uncompetitive because they apply the Public Procurement Act. And even internal acts if they came back important, they wouldn't have diminished anything. And that's why my suggestion and my proposal to the Proposer is to really keep this quality of the law in such a way that, in the end of the day, the application might move this in two years. In two years, probably part of the privatisation cycle will change. These internal acts can be adopted, so it can be justified that the internal acts will lead to a battle against bribery and corruption, but the application of these currently I would say articles will cause doubt that we have not taken the necessary measures to combat one of the greatest evils in the Croatian economy again, or I would say the biggest negative messages we send to foreign investors, which is that something more, more actively, we do not work on that part. So this is in some way exactly a suggestion that only in part of these provisions can the proposer be able to postpone application for a year, two, maybe just for a year, and we will try to assess after a year whether something has changed significantly in our rating, and I would say in the adoption of internal acts? It is enough to mention that INA will go into the construction and reconstruction of two refineries of 500 to 800 million dollars. It is an enormous amount that will no longer be under the influence of the new Law. To talk about Croatia insurance that has over 50% of Croatia's property insurance market. To talk about two business banks and so on, that's still what I'd say are warnings that we couldn't just miss. Therefore, it is personally difficult for me to raise my hand unless we find a solution to not apply these two, three articles at present because it will be the negative effects of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41493	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41494	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for an extremely correct and above all sound debate because there have been a lot of objections and clarifications of certain principles, but given that Agent Linic specifically mentioned some companies I would like to say that this Law will apply to both INA and FINA. So the INA to conduct the refinery tender will have to implement it in accordance with this Public Procurement Act. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you, too. This part of the law will in principle not apply to companies that are in the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Practically all these societies, we can talk about these 8 large companies that are not in the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund will generally have to apply this Act. So these misunderstandings that most of them were talking about... The MP also challenged the members of the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's be honest. Because we are aware of the facts, above all, of our country's assessment of bribery and corruption, so we are aware that such a provision, which is on the one hand when viewing the market conditions of business, is going towards that they shouldn't be here, and on the other hand, and that most of the MPs here have pointed out, looking at specific Croatian examples, then things shouldn't go. That is why I say clearly to clarify that INA, FINA and so on will be the bonds of implementation of the Public Procurement Act and we will consider any objections and amendments until the vote. Looking at these amendments that we received during the debate most of these amendments were in principle perhaps because it was just not clear whether INA and FINA and similar firms would be here so these amendments were submitted and submitted, but I say there are some nomotechnical changes and so on and so on, so perhaps my mistake in the opening part was that I didn't mention that INA and FINA would not be exempted with this Law, but I say thank you again everyone for the debate. I hope that this law on public procurement is one step forward to the new law because it is obvious that and as most MPs have said, this is one area where we all have to work because it finds state audits for us regardless of the corrections from year to year but they are just giving us this, and maybe one day we make a political consensus for the property card and it will help us solve these corruption problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41495	Thank you. We've completed our discussion on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41496	We are going to vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. We have the first proposal for the conclusion of Mršić's representative, which reads: The final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act was held in the first reading. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? In conclusion 32, 3 abstentions, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to vote on the amendments. Minister Shucker, here you go. Let's go to the amendments to the Legislative Committee first. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41498	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41499	It's accepted through?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41500	Through the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41501	Okay. ... all amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted and become an integral part of the Law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Amendment, amendment of MPs, Vice-President Đurđe Adlesic, Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41502	Amendment One is not accepted. It cannot be accepted that the conditions and abilities are determined by Directives 17 and 18. The European Communities and the conditions set out in the amendment are contrary to Article 45(e) and (f) which prescribe that the conditions of competence may be to pay social security contributions and to pay taxes, and in accordance with the legal provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41503	Dear Vice President, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41504	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand your arguments but there must be a possibility in a law that can provide workers of a company who can get a job like this. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41505	Thank you. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41506	The government does not accept the same arguments as Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41507	Amendment 2 withdrawn. Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41508	The government does not accept the provision as it is not acceptable since the provisions of the previous two amendments have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41509	Retracted. We'll come back to your proposal for a conclusion later. The amendment of the representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41510	The government does not accept because we believe that a period of 60 days is enough for all technical preparations to be applied then.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41511	It's a scone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41512	I don't think it's enough 60 days, so all the companies that are owned by the budget, which means municipalities, cities, counties and states, will be ready and able to compete in competitions for what will happen after 1.10. I think that in order to protect the interests of these people and the governance structure and the budget should say that by the end of this financial year, leave them with the possibility of adapting, and then with the new budget that they are simply competing on the market. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41513	Thank you. Please vote for, as regards the amendment. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We also have an amendment to article 18 of Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41514	The government does not accept because the conditions and competences laid down in Directives 17, 18 and the conditions set out in the amendment are not in accordance with Article 45 of Directive 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41515	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41516	Well, Mr. Minister. Directives 17 and 18 have come from the European Union. In the European Union, it is unthinkable that someone is working on a minimal without working on Saturdays, Sundays and overtimes and that the employer is not paying his salary. It's not normal for us, it's common. Therefore, I think it is necessary to install in a socially sensitive state that, as a criterion of the ability of an offeror, it is important that it respects the criteria laid down in the collective agreement, or that it has a collective contract, and if it does not apply the "border" collective contract of the branch in which it operates. Because today we have a situation where, by tax money, these people who are on the minimal, we finance jobs or we buy goods from an employer who pays them on minimum wage and he makes extra profits in that way. At the same time, the war inspection does not react or control whether this employer applies not a collective contract at all, a border collective contract but a basic, basic provision of the Labour Act, overtime, work on black. Working on Saturdays, Sundays and weekends, and I think this is what it takes, and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41517	Thank you. Who's up for this amendan? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 81 votes for, 4 abstentions and 22 against the law adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. We have two suggestions for conclusions. One is the Legislative Committee. The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to conduct a revision of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements before its publication in the "National Journals". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 104 for and one abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41520	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government cannot accept this conclusion for the simple reason why the proposal's position is based on the fact that the Government has already formed a working group to draw up a new Public Procurement Act, which will be based on the new directives of the European Community, and therefore there is no need to adopt such a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41521	Dear Vice President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41522	I have to admit, this seems funny to me. Actually, this is a great opportunity to accept what I said and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41523	Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41524	We move on to the following: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Post, Second Reading, P.Z.E. Number 233. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State at the Ministry Drazen Breglec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament were held on 25 February to discuss the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Post. It was then concluded that the emergency procedure was converted and directed to these amendments of the law so that it was directed to another, to another reading. in a regular procedure. I do not want to take too much time by explaining the basic intensity of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Mail, but I will focus first and foremost only on the differences that occurred in the meantime and on, and to refer to the accepted or unaccepted comments from the first reading. First of all, some of the concepts which appeared as insufficiently defined or as insufficiently defined have been redefined and redefined in part, so also in Article 2 where concepts such as the notion of universal service, which is new, has its new definition in Article 2. Then we accepted one significant change from the first version of the amendment and addition of the Law on Post, which is the definition of the separation of couriers and postal services. Therefore, these amendments and amendments to the Law on Post, the final proposal provides for, in particular, postal treatment, and in particular the treatment and definition of curriculous services. In this way, we believe that in the good part we also accepted the intensity at that time in the parallel debate referred to in the procedure and the Law on Courier Services. At the same time, by accepting this principle, we have respected the good part and remarks of parliamentary representatives, Mr Ferenček, Mr Tadic, as well as the IDS Club of Representatives. Certain differences have also been made in increasing the powers and obligations of the Postal Services Council and, in particular, in carrying out expert supervision of that regulatory body in the field of postal services. The possibility was also introduced, i.e. the possibility of introducing a post office or council supervisor. So practically the operating body of the regulator on the ground. The explanation in advance of why postal inspectors could not be with regulators is that the Law on the System of State Administration allows postal services to be carried out only by civil servants while the Board is not in the system of state administration and their employees are not civil servants. The provisions of criminal law have then been amended and amended in several places. First of all, it should be pointed out that an objection on suspension of a provision which allowed the inspector to impose a safeguard measure on the prohibition to carry out activities for three months to two years has been accepted. So that provision has been deleted, suspended. This also led to suggestions from the debate by parliamentary representatives of Mr Korenika, Ferenček and the IDS Representatives Club, and also proposed certain changes in the allocation of fines that may be imposed by the postal inspector. It is also proposed to extend the deadlines for an outdated infringement procedure to three years and still some minor technical harmonisations remain. I would like to warn in advance that there are several amendments, five more precisely to the Government's amendment with the aim of nomotechnical harmonisation which are very benign as you will see from the amendments themselves, but all in turn are exclusively from nomotechnical, for the reason of nomotechnical harmonisation. On this law, then, I can only conclude that we expect by accepting it to enable the basic principle defined by the basic law, the Law on Mail, but we intend to implement these amendments to the law and provide instruments to which the basic law will be implemented. We were not able to apply those suggestions in these four months between the first reading and the final proposal, which would continue to allow the same job being done to be called with two different names. The reverse intensity of these amendments to the law was precisely to define and specify what the reserved service means, which means universal service, meaning courier service in order to get through these precise definitions and through the instruments that these amendments and additions of the law provide, could finally bring the market to that level that all would wish to have together. Here I thank you for your attention for this opening part and I am available for all questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41526	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Zivko Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41527	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, what is the point of this amendment to the Post Law? It's about legal regulation of the courier services market. It is known that there were two concepts of this solution. First through the special Law on courier services and secondly, through amendments and additions to the Law on Mail. And how did this happen? The postal law came into force in November 2003. This post law has lost the monopoly in accordance with the European Union directives and has been left with the reserved area above postal services of letter senders up to 100 grams which Croatia as a public operator had not only the right but also the obligation to carry out in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions while possibly another public operator has the same right but does not have that obligation. As these laws define courier services as postal services, I would say with additional value, which also means additional transport service, delivery time, the possibility of tracking the shipment, etc. and this will be said in the law, until the Law on Courier Services enters into force and which the Parliament has a special conclusion, which has obliged the Government to release within six months of the procedure. Since this was not done, the Croatian Employers' Association initiated it, and the Committee for Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications accepted it and submitted a special proposal for the Law on Courier Services to the Assembly procedure. In the meantime, the Government also referred to the procedure of its Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postes, which we are now discussing in the second reading, and as a final proposal, which, most importantly, regulates the market for courier services. Unfortunately, in the meantime, even today, the government dares to say, the grey market for courier services is unsustainable and unacceptable for a state that strives to be regulated by the state. The HDZ Club accepts and supports this concept proposed by the Government, which means a concept to address the problem of courier services through amendments and additions to the existing Post Act, not through a special Law on courier services. Why two laws on the same matter? The proposed solution from postal services sets out and specifically defines courier services. It prescribes the manner of their conduct and punishment for the transgressors. Here's why we're here for this concept. Because this is a better and more complete solution, it is difficult and there is no point in a special law to separate postal services from courier services because courier services are actually postal services but with an additional service. After all, no Member State of the European Union has a specific Courier Service Act. All countries solved it through the unique Mail Act. And almost all national mails have a monopoly for written shipments, how-who, but some up to 100 grams and some up to 350 grams. With us, it's for shipments of up to 100 grams of weight, which we consider very acceptable. Here's what I'd say is the essence of all the problems, misunderstandings, conflicts, lobbying, etc. those 100 grams. By law, it is sufficient for the Council to report to the postal services the activity of postal and/or courier services and to obtain a permit, of course, with the fulfilment of certain technical conditions for work. Now everyone would do courier services in Zagreb, Split and other urban environments where it is worth it, and leave it to Croatia to carry out this activity without competition, of course, in rural areas where it is not worth it. Is that the market? We don't think so. HDZ is for the liberalisation of the market but under equal conditions, not that a private operator covers us with a cost-effective field" and that the state operator is being forced by law to cover or unsuspecting terrain. Of course it's not the real market. And that is why it is necessary, as the European Union countries have done with a more developed market than our own. Leave a state operator to Croatia post a certain monopoly for written shipments to real 100 grams of weight, while couriers are made for shipments over 100 grams or of course some below special. After all, 10 legal persons have, by virtue of the existing postal law, acquired the conditions for the provision of mostly courier services but also some postal services. The vast majority of them work in accordance with the existing postal law, but some fat ones use certain ambiguities, indefinities, and poor repressive apparatus, so they do as I mildly said in so - called. The gray zone, and the people's words are not wrong until such a time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Club supports this Final Proposal to amend and supplement the postal law and believes it is finally time to edit another one of the grey markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41528	On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative, Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41529	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The IDS Club cannot support this bill, we have concluded that this amendment and supplement of the Mail Act goes into third reading. If we go back a little bit when there was a first reading of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail, we at the IDS Club had a lot of objections, but now I'm just going to point out some and remind you of them and now I'm afraid that this Law in the second reading is only doing cosmetic changes, because with a few little concessions, there is an impression that a solution to the satisfaction of all interested parties has been reached. That is to say, through the law, interests and mail and courier companies, which have created this whole problem. However, let's start in order, first we in IDS have advocated and now we have to comply with the laws in the Republic of Croatia, then the MPs were forced not to comply with our own laws and the Ministry was least said to be irresponsible at that time. What kind of message did we then send to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when only the Ministry does not have to respect the laws, nor do we MPs, we also conclude that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not have to comply with the laws. The laws we don't respect are just proof of the incompetence of the rule of law and another proof that the rule of law doesn't work. Let me make this clear, P.Z.E. Mail Act. 780, which was voted on in 2003, has Article 14 where courier services are regulated and Article 65 states that this Article 14 will be in force until the Courier Service Act is passed. The second conclusion also obliges the Government to make proposals on courier services within 60 days, which we all know well that they did not and did not respect so that the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections was a proponent of the Courier Services Act. When the Committee was proposing one such law, then the Government was better, proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail with only 14 and 17 articles respectively, and under the designation P.Z.E. 233. So at this point, without being in line with the European Union, what was the obligation under the basic law, and offered by the fact that HUPIS was using the possibility of, of course, by means of the Maritime and Transport Committee to refer to the Courier Services Act in the procedure. Of course, now this law is P.Z. Re-getting E. just confirms that in the first reading, the law was done in haste, stychically and without reasoned views. All it took was to protect the mail and its monopoly in any way. We are also proposed the law then and now, which is in collegiate with other laws in the Republic of Croatia or the Law on Commercial Companies and the national classification of activities. And it's also a little bit consistent with the European Union, it's a little bit coordinated, so it's not, so let's say again it's consistent with the European Union. Secondly, the next miss at... is even this second reading is disrespecting the Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Neither does the opinion of the Competition Agency nor the National Competitiveness Council matter. This in some ways deceives MPs not to know the true state of affairs. And how the material came to the Economic and Social Council, I won't even talk about it. Third, we warn that on 1 February 2005, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement entered into force and that we must adhere to the signed one, i.e. that after that date we can no longer pass laws that are more restrictive and discriminatory than those previously signed, Articles 56 and 57. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. Fourthly, in the first reading there were talks about the business of the Croatian Post Office, there would be a lot to talk about, because it is certainly hard to adapt to those who are "protected as bearlike bears" and now they are driven to market conditions can only give you an example of how much the stamp costs in our neighbouring Slovenia 1 kuna and 40, and in Croatia the cheapest is 2 kunas and 30. And the fact that Croatian mail also takes the largest fees on payment of accounts and other cash transactions. In addition to this financial part, it is also a sign of convenience for HP Express, which is also a courier company, or daughter of a Croatian mail company, and which operate under their protection and with their material resources. So at one point you have a postman's car and a courier's vehicle at the same time and the one who drives that van at one point is the mailman and the second is the courier. So there's a lot of illogicalness that needs to be resolved. It was heard here just before to protect the monopoly because that Croatian mail must deliver mail throughout the Republic of Croatia and in islands and where it is not worth it, and I will tell you that in such areas only 5% of the territory is waste. And from what I've seen, some other courier companies have opened up their representative offices in the islands. Whether it's an accident or not, but if we're going to look at the structure of the post office I don't know if it's an accident, but HP is in the hands of HSLS, and so is our secretary of state from the same party, and I'm afraid all this law goes for these four hands that rise here in Parliament. That's why we in IDS cannot accept such rigid legal solutions as to suppress the competition, and this is an obvious example that this is done to enable someone to sell a monopolitical company of course with a very positive balance. The law does not want to define precisely what business documentation is. He wants to appear to leave unresolved provisions that could be interpreted in various ways and for which no one would ultimately be held accountable. It is important to stress that, unlike us, Europe has been defined, so it is said in the European Union directive that transport services of business documentation cannot be reserved. What is important to say when defining postal and courier services, and in what do these two services differ at all? It was a dispute in the first reading, and we can see that the second was also not resolved. So services vary by weight, by content and by method of collecting and distribution. The postal service is reserved up to 100 grams. I agree that post office may have a monopoly on it but on individual shipments, postcards, postcards is exclusively universal service. The postal service under the European Union Directive is considered to be a service of reception, transfer and delivery of letters and packages while, in contrast, the courier service is considered to be a service for the collection, transfer and delivery of letter mails and packages. From all of this, it is seen that the key difference is not only in weight so that we can argue whether it is 50 grams or 100 grams but the difference in how the shipment is taken over. In the postal service, you yourself must go to the post office and submit a letter or buy a postmark and insert a letter into the mailbox. Unlike mail, couriers don't have their own stamps, they don't have mailboxes or post offices, they already have to leave, collect to the address of the sender. Although this House has entrusted the government with its conclusion that the laws and stakeholders try to settle and come up with a common solution which, of course, did not occur because the ministry is uninterested in the fate of more than 3,000 employees in courier services companies. Mr. Secretary of State said on our Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee that he spoke twice with a representative of the courier services. It just shows seriousness in the approach to making one law. At the very least, I expected that a working group would be formed that would try to bring the opposing parties closer together. Of course, however, this did not occur. In the end, when the post office has set up all the benefits with the help of the restoring ministry, it is not enough but the ministry must have its own inspection. The truth is that they can no longer shut down the company but even penetrate certain items of the law. So, despite all the initiatives as well as the legal provisions of the existing Post Law, the Proposer has voluntarily submitted the final proposal for a law by brutally ignoring a transparent debate regardless of the initiatives of both domestic and foreign institutions. Regardless of such a proposal for a law, it is exclusively similar to the achievement of the interest of only one participant. The Croatian Post Office has disobeyed the remarks of the Government departments that I have and can give to you by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Economy and the Ministry of Justice. Regardless of the comments made by these Government bodies, the Proposer refers without question to a more restrictive law, ignoring the agreement that I have previously stated. Such a non-transparent amendment of the law without the involvement of stakeholders as well as experts in this area leads to the conclusion that the Government is changing the law only for the sake of the interests of the companies in its ownership and is in no way in order to comply with the European Union. The definition of courier services as direct transfer services supervised by the postal inspector of the resolution ministry also raises the constitutional rights of entrepreneurial freedoms as a definition of the Republic of Croatia's free market conditions. For the end, what can you say? From all this comes Mr. Secretary of State that you're just confirming that there's nothing from a good and efficient state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41530	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41531	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The first reading of this bill and debate a few months ago caused a real storm in this hall. And I'm going to remind you even more outside of it than I am today. Why don't I know it that way? The unions are silent, they are not in the streets or in front of the Croatian Parliament. Maybe that's the consequence of the law we passed the day before yesterday or the night before last. I don't know. The newspapers and other media are also silent, which leads to the conclusion that everyone is satisfied. The main objection to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law is the monopoly role of the Croatian Post Office. The government argues that it has been governed by European legislation under which Croatia's mail as a public operator under the law is obliged to perform a certain level of postal services throughout Croatia's territory. And therefore in Croatia there is a reserved area of postal services that can only be performed by a public operator, which is delivery of shipments up to 100 grams. I remember, and I will remind you of the debate in the first reading of this bill that has caused great interest in the media above all. I'll just list some headlines from the daily press that appeared at the time. I quote, the government is not destroying couriers, it's implementing the law, it was on the morning list. And the newspaper Dnevnik published a text entitled On behalf of the City Express Ministry undermines the postal system, while in Free Dalmatia it is titled War for postal services up to 100 grams. Before the entry into the Croatian Parliament then the trade unions of couriers and delivery services share leaflets of this kind of content, couriers and suppliers in Croatia are a endangered species. I quote further, are our places less important? They are accompanied by activists of the Croatian postal unions and share their leaflets seeking to regulate the postal services market modelled by the countries of the European Union. The postal workers say, quote, because of unfair competition on the courier market, we lose between 50 and 60 million kunas. From the City Express courier service they match Croatian mail in connection with the competent ministry they want to destroy the City Express. From all of this, it is evident that the opposing parties had conflicting views on these amendments to the law. And in that I may see the main lack of this bill because it seems to me that the conclusion that we have had is not respected, that stakeholders sit at the same table and arrange their relations in the best possible way. The essence of the dispute is very simple, they tell us in the ministry. The provision of postal services is cost-effective in urban areas and creates losses in rural and remote and poorly populated places. Croatian mail as a public operator under the law have an obligation to perform a certain level of postal services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, in Croatia as well as elsewhere in Europe, there are so-called the reserved area of postal services which can only be provided by a public operator and these are delivery of a shipment of up to 100 grams. Therefore, the Ministry believes that the City Express violates the law by delivering mail but only in major cities where this job is profitable. In their opinion, it undermines the postal system and, as a consequence, it can have the closure of smaller and inert postal offices in smaller environments or cover the loss of Croatian mail from the state budget. Furthermore, the Ministry argues that amendments to the Law on Mail do not contain any more restrictive articles than existing law. However, the Ministry argues that the reduction in the scope of universal services makes the law even more liberal while on the other hand in the City Express argues that it also came that the Croatian Parliament committed the Government to adopting the current Law on Mail to adopt the Law on Courier Services within 60 days but the Government did not respect this, which continues to confirm the marginalization and ignoring of the role of the Croatian Parliament. In this war, the arguments for and against qualifications as regards the company which is the only courier company in Croatia violates the law and which has therefore been filed several infringements, and that the only one who objects against the law in the City Express is in agreement that they are not concerned with the delivery of mail but with the transfer of business documentation and are doing their services at the request of the client on the territory of the price of Croatia. Of the 150 thousand shipments performed by Citiy Express, none were written by hand and the individual message in the envelope, no postcards or letter shipment with stamps and persistently trying to show how Citiy Express delivers and such shipments. The City Express states that several times they are supervised by the economic inspection of the state inspectorate, who is the only one in charge of his business but has never found any irregularities or evidence of a breach of any legal provisions. As Croatia's largest... The delivery company wants to warn that amendments to the Law on Post Offices are an attempt to spread the monopoly of Croatian mail and to prevent further work of couriers and delivery services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was not clear whether private courier companies had the right to operate with a shipment below 100 grams in cases where they were not subject to a stamp. Private courier companies used this inaccuracy, they are able to offer almost half the price of Croatian mail because they are concentrated only on larger cities. In Croatia, the post office calls such a way of doing business unfair competition, until the City Express calls for the right to competition and demonopolise postal services. As the proposed amendments and amendments to the Law on Postage are in breach of the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia in the context of the entry into the European Union, as the Stabilisation and Association Agreement of Croatia is in force, the obligation not to impose more restrictive measures on the market than already existing ones which do not fully bear witness to the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Due to all this, we in Croatia will propose that the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Post Act be changed to a portion of the reserved shipment to 50 grams because it is also an obligation to regulate it in such a way in 2006, and unless the application of this law is delayed from 1. 1. 2006. We at the HSS Club are for further liberalisation on the postal transport market, who is better, more successful and cheaper to survive on the market. In this business, they should not be privileged and so let their work be the sole measure of their effectiveness. And that's the attitude of the HSS, we'll support it if we evaluate that this bill is how it regulates this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41532	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs would now stop this debate in no time, and I would like to propose an addition to this session's agenda. We continue to discuss amendments and additions to the Law on Post and Two Notifications. The president of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health called for a meeting of the Committee today at 1800 hours in the Chamber "Ivan Kukuljevic" with the agenda of these laws that we included in the agenda. And the chairman of the Legislatives Committee, with the same agenda, called a committee meeting today at 6:00 p.m. at the Josipa Ban Jelačić Hall. We continue to discuss the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail. On behalf of the SDP club, Honored Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41534	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41535	Is someone supposed to be prescribed a hearing aid? Can't some people really hear it there? Time stops Mr. President of the HDZ Club, time cannot be stopped except in this case. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41536	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I must say that we at the SDP club believe that this law still works in the house should be sent to third reading in order to further align the permissive moments in this law. I will remind you of a respected colleague that when this law was passed at the end of 2003 that it was then and that points to our principle in these benches that we do one thing and talk when we are in opposition, another we talk and we do it when we are in power. At that time, during the debate in the adoption of this Act, the biggest challenge was the definition of courier services, and that is why the HDZ and HSLS clubs also said that the constitutional right of economic operators should be protected, i.e. Article 49. The constitution says I quote "no law on a type of service can define and limit another type of service" and then we advocated the liberalisation of the postal services market in the Republic of Croatia. Just to remind you, somewhere in early 2000, Croatia joined and signed, joined the Marrakech Agreement and signed a contract with the World Trade Organisation when we defined that we would fully liberalise courier services. I must admit that this text of the law that comes to second reading is still more quality than the text of the law that we had in our first reading and that we then sent for repairs or second readings. I must say that at this moment, the main dispute in this Act can be spoken of as speaking on behalf of the Club, it is the definition of courier services, and I will immediately pray that perhaps, in my performance, Mr. Secretary of State says what might be the opposition and what may be caused by commercial companies dealing with courier services, which is a direct transfer of the postal shipment. In the interpretations that are heard these days in our assembly benches, the council towers are told by my deep conviction that it is a direct transfer from the moment a certain courier takes over the shipment that this same courier should constantly travel and deliver that same shipment. However, it seems to me that care should be taken and care should be taken of that the courier service, under of course financially different conditions, provides, of course, a service with added value, that it is a service that ensures faster transfer of certain consignors but also greater security so that the delivery provider and the contracting authority can at any time know where the consignment is and otherwise manage the manipulation of such consignments. It's the first dispute that can be in the adoption of this law. The second thing that we consider in the SDP Club is the possibility of inspectorial supervision, it seems to me that a less quality solution is that the postal inspector is also overseeing the courier services. We believe that oversight of the courier services should be carried out by a state inspectorate such as this moment. The third objection that may be is that article that goes under criminal provisions, that is, that is, it is unlawfully obtained profit and whether the otherwise acquired gain can be taken away by a solution. I also have an opinion in the creation of this Act, and the Ministry of Justice means what is within the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where Minister Vesna Škare-Ozbolt argues, we also state that in the current Article 59(3) of the Law on Mail, the possibility of giving away a safeguard measure of confiscation of property benefit achieved by an infringement which should be corrected because the confiscation of property benefit is not a safeguard under the law on infringements. It seems to me that if it's cohesion and the Ministry claims it should be taken into account. It also seems to me that one part of my colleagues does not differ when the debate on behalf of clubs began, which is what is the difference between the services provided by Croatian mail as a public operator and courier services, courier companies, or courier companies, we must say that these Croatian mails which are at this time the only operator and the liberalisation of services will be able to be more operators to provide Croatian postal services to citizens, the postal meaning of the Croatian postal system, meaning they provide universal postal services, they are a set of postal services of certain quality which are available at an affordable price with the purchase of a stamp or with a handover in a mailbox, whether in a post office in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. That is why Croatian mail has the possibility of losing, obtaining a grant from the state budget. The other thing is also they have reserved postal services which can only be provided by a public operator. The courier services, however, are value added services, here we have a whole article that defines what courier services are, but what is extremely important means that those during a certain technological sequence from the moment of reception, or collection, because we need to know that courier services, they are collected at the postal address of the sender at a special tariff, and of course they are always safer, faster and at any time the courier must know what they will do with such a shipment. I must say, as I mentioned, it means that this Law which has come to second reading is something more quality, however, given that the recommendations are related to the possibility of couriers coming into more unfavourable positions than they have been in the past 10 years as they work in the Croatian area, we must note that there is talk or saying that there is a disturbance in the courier service market is that so. The fact that the government, the Ministry of Employment or the Croatian Post Office and postal services, but also the courier services, failed to define in the past 10 years what they were, the Law on Commercial Companies, we allowed such companies, such companies to operate and work in Croatian premises, probably part of it was not covered by legal regulations but it is not the fault of those who opened the companies, but it is the guilt of us as a state, state inspectorate if he found that something in the work of these services, or courier companies is wrong. That is why I think we should take care of, that is, a letter from the National Competitiveness Council, which sent a letter to the employers' association, which advocates that a broader and comprehensive debate be held in order to achieve a better and better Law on Post, when we have already failed to fulfil the obligation made by the Croatian Parliament in 2003 and asked the Croatian Government to propose a special Law on Courier Services to the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, too, this government still believes that the law on courier services should not be passed but that everything can be defined by the postal law. If that is the case, why is it that he did not respect the conclusion of this House in February of this year, or the first reading of this law, and why not all the interested ones sat down at one table, discussed and came with the best and best possible solution to help us get out of this mess? That is precisely why the SDP proposes to conduct a third reading on this law. What's the reason we're proposing a third reading? On the one hand, there is still a dispute over the definition of courier services on the one hand. On the other hand, we are aware that Croatian mail has not yet gone full, full power into restructuring. If we know the number of people who work in the Croatian Post Office, it seems to me about 10,000 but let us not forget that about 3,000 people work in courier companies. I'm sure no one in this High House is the target of any of these people being out of a job. That is why we propose that we try to move and go into the third reading of this law if it is in any way possible, and I personally believe that it is without these phrases whether someone from HSLS, SDP or HDZ is going to come up with a solution that will benefit all interested. When I say for the benefit of all interested people, it's perfectly safe if we have cheaper postal services on one side, on the other side of the courier service, and it can be more competitive for our economy to be more competitive. An estimated total set of postal and courier services is estimated to be around 3 billion kuna a year. I'm sure there's room for everyone in that market. We advocate it means that there is order, that the law is respected but not in a way that, by adopting a more restrictive law, we go to the facility and closing jobs in any part of Croatia's mail or courier companies. What is interesting about the proposal of this law is that when we talk about courier services of definition as I have already said often in the proposal of this law, I may be wrong, but it seems to me that mail services are being chased because we know that from 1 January of next year there is a further liberalisation of the market within the Croatian Post Office when they are writing, meaning written shipments are only protected up to 50 grams. I'd like to hear it here from the secretary of state because I think it's interesting for all of us at which stage is the restructuring of the Croatian Post Office. In which way it can and must be done to the end because it seems to me even when it comes to the adoption of such laws that it should be said and what segment of the entire market in Croatia. The natural thing is that Croatian mail as a public and so far the only operator has an obligation to have their offices in remote islands and in small places where their work is certainly not profitable to the end. However, Croatian mail has one large resource that in their offices which are extremely large in Croatia we know that fewer such post offices are profitable, but they are in some way, these post offices are in one good part especially rural environments the way out in the world. There are counters of the Croatian Post Bank. Therefore, there is no reason, with the help of the state in this part of the universal postal services of Croatia, to do better and better. The natural thing is that even so far Croatian mail has struggled and it should be commended and stressed that, we have the services of HP express, so obviously Croatian mail has also realised that courier services and this cake, this segment of Croatian markets are extremely important, important, profitable. Therefore, this time and Croatian mail if we are already talking or if we want to say that courier companies are working illegally, absolutely certain that, in this case, Croatian mail also works illegally through their HP express, especially here, it is already in discussions and stressed that Croatian mail and these universal shipments occur, means those services for which the public operator are often used by the same vehicles, the same staff to work and service the HP express. That is why and ultimately this bill is a step in relation to first reading. However, this is not a step enough, and that is precisely why, because of the preservation of jobs both in the Croatian Post Office and in the courier services companies, we propose to go into third reading, to honour the conclusion that we had after the first reading of this law, that all interested Croatian employers' association, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Mail, trade unions and, of course, representatives of the ministry agree and that in the third reading we adopt a law that will be more high-quality, not restrictive but that will allow on one hand to have a modern, quality, liberal postal law but also not to destroy any job in the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, as a product of all this, they'll be cheaper both postal and courier services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41537	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual discussion. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41538	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. I think that this law, that is, this final proposal, is once again on the trail of the already criticised and publicly voiced claim that this is essentially the consolidation of the state monopoly. And we saw it there, but it's clear why somewhere after he insisted on the state monopoly, and let's say, specifically, at Jadrolinia without any scruples or fences, we got rid of that monopoly, so here's exactly what our media is about and wrote whether concessions to companies that can't even compete with the state-owned company Jadrolini from far away. So here's the question. If someone who owned the courier services had just happened to be in the election, I would recommend that all of them report to the next election, and then there will be no problem regarding the monopoly especially if they're out there somewhere to stay or get power in a certain local self-government because we have it in action. So, two arches has a state. It's not here, there's no concern for Jadrolini, but here the mail has been ridiculously defended, and we don't even mind that, in a particular case, I'm just going to look back on one segment, something that is causing the general I'd say detestation and concrete profession when it comes to delivery, a postal delivery that the post office insists on not doing, even though it's mandatory under the Law on a litigation procedure, often by the Law on administrative procedure without even talking about the Code of Criminal Procedure. One-fifth of the budget of the Ministry of Justice goes to unscheduled shipments carried out by the post office. Ten and twelve recommended consignments in a specific case, although the parties say the person is at a specific address. And it is a persistent question and a persistent refusal of mail that it is not only subject to the Law on Postage but is subject to regulations which apply to all citizens, which are provisions on the delivery of the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Administrative Procedure, the Law on Procedural Procedure and all procedures governing delivery in the Republic of Croatia. And it's a lex specialis and in any case a higher rank law that has to be obeyed and mailed. Courier services behave and carry out but mail often doesn't. And then it blocks, you see how it's connected, that the state is doing damage to the state. Its company makes a third branch of government, as well as the authorities in general, huge damages because they will not conduct order in deliveries. And what can a court do when it has an unsettled shipment instead of delaying a hearing? But the public just doesn't accept it anymore, they don't accept the parties, they don't accept the neighbors who see that the neighbor was home without the shipment being delivered to him. So there's a variety of malfeasances. I wouldn't want to hurt everyone here because most of them do their job, but part of it does damage to the post office, does harm to the state. I can even say that since competition and when courier services are also carrying out that type of delivery that has improved and still not sufficiently, and now we will regain the state of what is originally going to cause again then to re-behave in these deliveries especially when these deliveries are at issue in any way monopolistic because no one else can make such a delivery. But I'm warning you that, too. Even if a law of this kind had passed that simply the Law on Mail could not suspend the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Parity Procedure which does not allow in these cases a monopoly of mail. There, so much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41539	Thank you very much. Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41540	Thank you very much. This is, in fact, a proposal for Croatian privatisation could be said exactly the way privatisation is happening in Croatia. A conflict, no matter who conflicts in this activity. The government owns the mail, therefore, state, society and has done nothing to qualify the mail for the competition or has done little to make the mail competitive on the market or not enough to stop competition. And then now we have to look for Solomonan solutions to make the wolf full and the sheep count and that's not possible. The development of the market or not in postal and courier services is a false dilemma we must go to the market. We have to go to the market plant because the market is a system that we develop in all areas. But when the area isn't arranged, then it's a wonder who's stronger and more powerful. Then irresponsibility reigns. As a result, all attempts to establish a supervisory board or to try inspections will not succeed and will not produce results until a continuous duty and mail reorganisation is introduced in the post so that it can compete on the market. To be rational, to be responsible. As far as I know as a citizen mail needs to be modernised, to ensure that it is able to compete, very precisely define the area for which it is in charge as a state-owned institution, a state-owned company and the rest that is on the market also enable the post to operate on the market. Well, she already seems to have what's called City Express, HP or I don't know what her name is, so she's got a courier delivery. Therefore, this Law is hardly possible on the basis of some, certain precise data which state the position of mail, where it lags, or how much traffic is in the mail as a state-owned undertaking, how much traffic is carried out with courier services, what is the income and what is the competition, or what is the situation with courier services what they do, how much they do, and how much they cover the terrain and how much they cover that area of activity. Well, then we could talk about who should now be able to make the law fair to everyone. Well, to quote, I wouldn't want to, of course, have them, because I can seduce both myself and others, but I really don't think this is capable of judging by sword but by analysis, so it would be good to have a third reading where we would have really good information about the number of employees, delivered senders, the structure of the senders, what does HP express, what is the competition, how many senders come back, how much is covered... One, the other, and then we as a Parliament could perform our duties and ask the Government to act on the development of postal services and courier delivery services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is really not how I'm going to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41541	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41542	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I can't and can't be surprised because here as a representative I have a far greater freedom of debate than when I speak for the club and I have to say with full right to wonder how some clubs' representatives have changed their thinking in less than a year or a half to two days. When we discussed this Act in 2003, then the opposition was just then, today's position of lila crocodile tears that the law is not liberal enough, how they want to destroy courier companies, how Croatian mail is bad and how bad things should be destroyed in some way. This when I say destroy, please understand it not literally but in a way to improve the quality of work. At the time, it is said, here I will quote on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS, it is said that the HSLS Club is now in favour of the full liberalisation of these services specifically of courier services. I can ask the Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State, since he is from that party, how come he and his party have changed their opinion so drastically? Because at all costs, he wants to secure a kind of monopoly? I think we all have to push against the monopoly because we have an opinion, a competition protection agency that speaks in that sense. There was nothing better than HDZ at the time. At the end of that party, the minister, who also advocated that, because everything that is related to the courier services is in line with the directives of the European Union and they have advocated, means that the provision of Article 14 of this Act which we now have, which regulates the courier services, remains in force until the entry into force of the Courier Services Act. I can only ask you colleagues from the HDZ why, suddenly, such a change of thought, then, your insistence is also a voted conclusion that the government is delivered in the parliamentary procedure of the Courier Services Act. Now all of a sudden, we don't think two laws like that need to be done. I can accept that we do not need the Law on Post and the Law on Courier Services, but it would be normal for there to be a little more liberalisation, because, as I pointed out on January 1, 2006, further liberalisation must take place when only written shipments of up to 50 grams will be protected. Let's not forget, too, that by entering a world trade organisation, we've signed that contract, we've made it clear that we'll respect the liberalisation of courier services. Now suddenly we step away from it or at least in one part. That's why I support the SDP Club's opinion that this law still needs to go into third reading. I think there's too much in play, there's too many jobs in the game. And for this reason, on one side, it is necessary to protect jobs in the Croatian Post Office. On the other hand, it is necessary to protect jobs in courier services companies. I once again ask Mr. Secretary of State to explain to me to the end what is this direct service, or what is this direct, direct transmission? I suppose that interpretation is not so rigid, but if so, it brings us all together, because in that case the courier services will not be absolutely profitable. In this case, it will not be profitablely profitable nor will the HP express that we have and which they founded with the right of Croatian mail because something that is profitable at it should be done. I also think that in all this law that is progress, however, I believe that Mr. Secretary of State should be seen and why is it not in accordance with the Criminal Law? I find it illusory and rightly possible, I can accept thinking about courier companies that if the postal inspector is in charge of their work then he will probably more protect Croatian mail as an operator because the government is the owner of Croatian mail and the government will not find interest in protecting private, private companies than it is likely to be interested in protecting his company. In doing so, I must stress that the start of the restructuring of the Croatian Post Office is good, but I can ask a public question here for you, Mr Secretary of State, but also for all of us. We have a chance these days and read again about some affairs in the Croatian Post Office. To do that again, we had four centres of post office in Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka. Now we have 21 center of state mail again. I'm afraid this is not a good way to rationalise the work and activities of the Croatian Post Office. We are reintroducing means we have probably the ones who need to be given a position, and I think that one such company should find the most optimal organisational scheme, the most optimal organization that, in part, also taxpayers, will cost a lot of money if they resupply losses in the Croatian Post Offices. I'd like to know why that happened. I am sure since from the Ministry responsible for the work of the Croatian Post Office, eventually Minister Kalmeta is if I remember well the only member of the Assembly of that company. And you, Mr. Secretary of State, are a member of the Supervisory Board. I'd like to hear what that led to and you to expand that we have a 21-centre post office. At the very least, I have to admit, perhaps I wanted to follow what could also be one of the solutions to the regional and regional structure of Croatia in the counties. But I'm afraid that's not good. I'm afraid it's not good when the director or director of those centres' post office is being returned again by people who have proven against the law to give people notices. People who go back to the board of directors, who don't want to execute court decisions. I'm sorry, if that's what we allow as a Croatian Parliament. After all, through the Government we are also owners of the Croatian Post Office. Where's that going? How to protect people who work in the Croatian Post Office from the whaling of people we brought back to our positions? That's why, Mr. Vice President, I think we should support this law going into third reading on one side to get to a better solution, to resolve the recommendations that exist. There's a lot of here, and I have to admit to the termological discrepancies in this law, and I've personally given a few amendments. I hope that by accepting these amendments, you might also be able to improve the text itself, but I personally think that the best solution is the third reading of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41543	Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that at 17.52, it's been 10 minutes. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Mr. Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to start from the beginning, from the club statements. I have estimated that it is necessary now, that it is high time for some of the remarks that have been repeated and repeated, to give an answer to them in order to be more rational in further discussions and not to repeat the same remarks. I'll take a turn from the IDS Club's remarks. It's impossible to answer everything that's been said. Every sentence was almost incorrect in its essence. I'm afraid I have to repeat it again as I did last time and I'm only going to elaborate the most important. It is not true that the opinions of the judiciary, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration were not respected. Finally, the government is proposing this bill. The government has united the basic proposal and all opinions. First all opinions are positive and ultimately the Government is a proposing therefore making a distinction between individual opinions even if they were different would not be appropriate. Anyway, they're positive. It was said by a representative of the club's exhibitor... that no law can be passed that is more restrictive to the SAA and that is correct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I claim that this Law is no more restrictive in any of its elements than the basic law which was then passed by by the parliamentary majority, therefore proposed by the previous government. This Law has the basic intensities to implement instruments for the implementation of this basic law. There are no elements that are more restrictive than the basic law. In fact, it has proven several elements that lead to further liberalisation such as reducing the scope of universal services, as I also cited last time, and also strengthening the regulatory body is going in, towards the same goal. Next inaccuracy, HP Express is not a daughter of Croatian Post Office but is only one service provided by Croatian mail. So again it is completely wrongly addressed and interpreted here, and Article 25 of the Law obliges Croatia to mail on separate display, to separate accounting presentations of business, services of universal, reserved and others. So this is an obligation that Croatia must consistently carry out and we have warned it about as a resolute Ministry responsible for the control and compliance of the law. This very comprehensive, comprehensive job according to the Croatian Post Office will be completed by the end of this year. Wrongly it was said that courier companies had opened outposts on the islands. No courier company has opened any offices on the islands. I'm responsible. A completely wrongly addressed political connotation of ownership is the influence of a party specifically HSLS on Croatian mail. It was said exactly after that of the honourable legislator of Korenik that the President of the Assembly is Minister, I do not need to further interpret the alphabet to the parties and I would also not want to label or represent the party membership of individual members of the administration because it is not in, but certainly how much I need one member of the three members of the administration is a member of the HSLS. "The exchange services, the document-sharing service cannot be reserved," is quoted from the presentation of the IDS Club representative, Article 12, paragraph 4. speaks explicitly of the exchange of documents is not considered a reserved service. I can only conclude that you missed this when you were preparing for this debate. Over 3,000 employees of courier companies are at risk, it was said. Wrongly, courier companies don't have 3,000 employees, and she, not one job in courier companies, is at risk. Not a single one. I have written support from the representatives of the courier companies in speeding up and implementing even the first somewhat stronger, i.e. a slightly more rigid version of the amendments to the law, where a protective measure of banning activity was envisaged from three months to two years. Even at that point in time, a dozen of them, the vast majority of the world's largest people who know how to work, four of them in writing, gave support to that version of the law. The ministry, i.e. the government, has made a compromise, respecting the remarks made in the first reading, and has removed this provision so that there will be no apriors of any evil notions. Further representative of the HSS club presented the proposal, or referred to the question, sorry, he made a proposal to limit the monopoly to 50 grams. It is true that the European Union Directive speaks and obliges members to determine the maximum reserved area with a weight price of up to 50 grams from 1 January of the following year. Which is why at this point the government has assessed that this would not be a good solution. First of all, because of the market situation. A provision of 50 grams allows and opens space and certain manipulation, as the difference between 25 and 30 grams is the weight of the average shipment and 50 grams is very small and the current state would be even more difficult to control, there could be theoretically some heavy envelopes and therefore a service that is not postal would be fully done, thus eskiating the intensity of this 50% reserved protection mechanism. Furthermore, as regards the proposal on behalf of the SDP club, the direct transfer of the postal shipment was a direct question addressed to me. Therefore, both the media and this issue are mainly referred to in Article 14(3). A law that says that postal shipments are transferred directly and delivered to the recipient's address. However, these changes have thrown out a more rigorous formulation in a technological process. Therefore, these amendments open up the possibility of direct transfer being interpreted exactly as it is, and that is one or more modes of transport explicitly in Article 4 after that, so it is necessary to read paragraph 3 which says it directly transmits but also paragraph 4 which further states what direct transport means. It explicitly enables one or more modes of transport, so this thesis that is going completely wrong through the media is disabled that a letter must be taken and, for example, by a writer. in Dubrovnik and then it's a courier service. So no, it's not, it's all very clear and there's no talking about it at all to sanction any opposite action other than the one mentioned above. The third reading, which is proposed, I am convinced that it will not bring uncompromising attitudes together, because the approximation of a peaceful attitude would mean allowing or only what would be accepted by couriers, I have a feeling of deep, no courier companies, but one company that does not want to be declared as couriers so I cannot call it as courier but is loudest, would be defining a postal service with two names and allowing the same business to be carried out by two different names under one name, where it would not be sanctioned under another name where Croatian mail would be obliged to perform. Here I am, unfortunately, given the light that's bright, I must thank you for your patience in this debate. If there is an opportunity, of course, I will refer to further comments from your discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41545	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukoac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to correct only two incorrect allegations, and first of all, it concerns that HP-express is only one service as postal as we know it itself that HP-express does courier services and not postal services. And I'm wondering how it can be separated accountingly, if there's a number of packages, so let's share how much fuel was spent on a single postal service or a courier's service or what share of pay the driver has as far as the courier's part or the postal part is concerned. It's very difficult to explain, and I don't think that the thesis stands for you, and even the more you had an obligation to separate those two companies. It means that HP-express has to do business on its own. Secondly, I don't know about other islands, but I saw personally on Krka and Cres's office of courier companies 15 days ago when I was on vacation, I saw when I was passing that it wasn't a post office but it was a courier company. I won't name which, but there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41547	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41548	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In every civilized country, there are two sanctities, both of which are state and national interest. Do we have in the Croatian state and national interest or is everything colored by ideologies and policies? Before I begin my debate, I must criticise the ruling party for letting this law go to another reading, and I will explain it. Someone with me can agree and disagree, it's his right, but I'll make some arguments. Because that's when it was over-calculating, and we came here. Croatian mail is a company of particular social, state and national interest such as mail everywhere in the world. But here and there, we want to make a joke out of it. The Croatian post office is spread throughout the country's territory, and it must be in man's office. I also spoke in my own, when we spoke in the first reading, in my presentation and in my numerous replicas and corrections of the incorrect quote, I advocate the market, and now I will say yes to the market. Who doesn't fit the market? The market doesn't match the City Express and those who defend it. If we had a legal state then the State's Attorney's Office must urgently take certain measures and at least revise what this company has been doing for example in the last two years. My colleagues and colleagues that politics is the elaborate lady we talk about when we speak metaphorically, or when we do something immoral, it also speaks about Croatian post office in the first reading as it is today. Now imagine hypothetically that we do a little survey here and ask the following questions. Are you up for the market? The answer to all of us would be yes. And do we have a market today and who's disrupting that market? If we asked if we were against the monopoly, we'd all answer yes against the monopoly. And who here had a monopoly? If we asked if we were against breaking the law, would we all answer that we are in favor of obeying the law? But that courier so-called. The City Express courier company in the last few years has been an unprecedented violation of the law, and if we were to ask if we were against crime, then we would all say that we are, and I call once again the State's Attorney's Office and all the competent services to deal with what this company has been doing in the last few years. You see colleagues and colleagues in the last few months, the City Express has had more advertising in Croatian spaces than Coca-Cola. This is amazing, I would suggest to the Croatian Post Office and the Croatian Government who manages these mails because it is a state-owned company to place Mr. Owner of the City Express as spokesperson of the Croatian Post Office and give him a monthly salary of a million euros because he is incredibly skilled in public deception and in breaking the law. And now I'm going to tell you something, and what I'm saying about it is there are 10 witnesses, some people who have now split up with the ruling party and since their people are holding a monopoly in a big Croatian region then this gentleman was coming to my room, in front of 10 people, in front of 10 witnesses, I can testify to him asking me how much I cost. I said I have my price, 100 million dollars, so don't Mr. Loncar so, 100 million dollars I have my price because he knew that I am a great advocate of this Law that imposes order on the Croatian Post Office, he knew that I am a member of the Supervisory Board, and I was appointed there by the Croatian Authority to protect Croatian state and national interests, and I am asked by a private person who violates this law in front of 10 witnesses without any shame and shame how much my price is. And this story today is about morality, this story that we need to have the market, this speech, and now 10 days ago, you saw when the second time this law went into the procedure of all newspapers, state television, commercial televisions all write here again, walking around Europe, lying about Europe because Europe doesn't understand the unfortunate Croatia and all of our events and accidents that are happening here and not about the market, it needs to be adapted to this. Gentlemen, everyone has the right to think what everyone wants everyone has the right to say what they want, so I have the evidence, so for the third time I call the state's attorney's office to start doing their job. With a train in large bags, they send shipments to Split, Rijeka and other major cities, even in the mail without any shame or shame, there their people welcome shipments and then take it around, is that the market, is that Europe we are fighting for, whether we need such Croatia. These gentlemen who are at the head of that so-called. The courier services say here it is, we started introducing to places that aren't paying off their branches, so where they've been so far. How many shipments were carried, for example, in the Croatian islands, by the Dalmatian Zagora, by Banovina, by Lica, Kordun, by Žumberk, but where they carry, they carry here in Zagreb. Whom they have, the municipal court, gentlemen, do you know how much every day from the Municipal Court goes to a shipment of certain addresses, from the County Court, the Business Bank, the Zagreb Bank, public enterprises, so please be nice about what we're talking about, so whether it's a market, whether it's someone's monopoly, and this law does some things, this law isn't a sacred cow, it's probably going to be changed again for a while, but we have to sort of set the rules of the game, take just for example the football field. Well, we can't say we know ourselves as a game rule when the ball goes through half the range it's out of the field, so we can't talk so sorry it didn't go off the line but half a meter. This is exactly what happens to these gentlemen here. We have one more thing, here I will not mention which party, it would be convenient for the mayor of Zagreb, Mr Milan BAndić, to say why the post office does not return 10 million kunas, clean without interest, even the president of the Croatian Post Office was very real on my speech, do not use it now in pre-election because it is not moral, because they were afraid if it brings it out, he promised to return that money, now nothing but when it was promiscation now, look whose materials in promotion wore the City Express, I'm just asking why. I don't know, I ask the question. My colleagues and colleagues, there is nothing more to be added here, each of them will vote on their conscience, I would ask you to understand as is everywhere in the world what is mail, let this post office be subject to the most demanding market laws but not to do this in the last few years which has acquired the City Express and which has shown to the outside let it be checked once, and finally check how many employees there are there. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41549	Thank you very much. We first have one correction and then two replicas. First, Mr. Miljenko Doric's correction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41550	Mr. Vice President, I agree with a great deal of what Mr. Loncar said but it is not true that citizens in every civilized country would answer your questions... But it is true that in every civilised country, any company's management member, when the company or the supervisory board is discussed, would refrain from speaking, would not be declared and would not take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41551	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Mrs. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41552	I've given the replica, I thought I'd replicate it that way, I really admire Mr. Lonchar's fine speech, and it's a journalist and his rhetoric is good, but it's a very empty story without arguments. As for the same funding and delivery of materials in campaigns, I also have information that Mrs. Vice President Jadranka Kosor was delivering material through the City Express during the presidential elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41553	Answer? Miroslav Korenika, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It seems to me to me that you have gone a little too far when you are attacking one company because I think there is no reason here to talk about one company but the service when you associate this company with the services of transporting its shipments even by public transport, because the fact that even in this Bill proposal, if you have carefully read it under Article 14, paragraph 4, under direct transfer of postal shipments, etc., and says the courier service provider can carry out the shipments by his own or her own or rented means of transport, as public transport. In addition, it is illusory to expect that the courier service will not come to the furthest place in the Republic of Croatia only this must be paid, that is the point. As far as I know, it is incorrect among other things, I must also take advantage of the opportunity on some of our islands like Krk there are offices of postal, courier services, but I must also say that it is illusory to expect that without paying the courier service, and the courier service costs and in that case whoever pays will have to deliver every part of the Republic of Croatia. So it's all about price and cost and how much we as a person are willing to pay. That's the difference between courier services and postal services. That's why the state's interest is that there are strong mail, correct mail that they do then I said in my presentation on behalf of the club that mail and mail offices have often been the only way out of the world for small-town citizens or residents.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41555	Thank you very much. Here's your answer, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41556	Mr. Vice President, thank you fellow Koreans, so he may have unwittingly confirmed in an indirect way what I was talking about. My colleague, Korenik, I'm up for it, but I think you'll agree with me, it's unacceptable by train or even mail to send several thousand shipments to Split in one crate and then down there to wait and then go to share it and it's a huge charge, that way someone gets damaged, I'm against it. Here, even in this replica, I've been listening to you, I'm still here to take advantage of this empty story, there are no empty stories why, on purpose, I'm talking about the City Express because he's here that yeast of all the riots that are happening and in his basic debate I've said several times and now I'm going to repeat I did for the market but everyone has to be equal, here is the threatened Croatian post office, and why this courier, so on the other hand. The courier service so far has not gone to these areas I've talked about before, but they've just stuck to big cities. Now that they are threatened with the danger of no longer being able to break the law as they have violated it so far, it now appears here and there in certain places. There is a problem I am for the market, lived the market, but I am not for the monopoly here had someone else to harm the Croatian post office.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41557	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41558	Mr. Vice President, the distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! What interests me, as a layman in this matter, is that work works. I return to what my colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic said. The great reason or important reason for the outflow of many items, the numerous mail shipments to some other entities is a fact and that is, the fact that mail delivery did not work. I suppose it's not possible to regulate the law that the post office will be neat or messy, or in one way or another, but it has to be imagined over the fact that one of the most sensitive services in this country, which is the judiciary that we all have such big objections and criticisms of the victim was, for a long time, a victim of poor delivery and that it simply forced her to go to other solutions and even including the use of civilian these individuals who serve the military deadline. This is just a note from mine that those who are doing mail that is certainly an important service in our country are imagining over it and that they are starting to adapt to something that will inevitably come and that is competition in the fullest sense. And now that we're talking about efficiency, something that's closer to me, it's a violation provision, and I've put some amendments in there, and I hope that some of it will be accepted. Here is how we want efficiency and this is the efficiency of the state which we strongly advocate in Article 61a. In fact, the new ones are constrained by the efficiency of inspection services because under the general rules of the Law on Infringements, the inspector at the scene can impose any punishment and not just the one that is restricted in Article 61a. There's probably some reason for that. I guess if there's any particular reasons it wouldn't be good to accept a more efficient variant. But I'm saying, I can't get in because I don't know enough of the problems that are there. I'm just surprised that at a time when we're going towards greater efficiency, we have this kind of restriction. If not in any case in that same article, I'm warning something that's actually a technical awkwardness and I see a little bit, even if I think there's a virus in the government in the computers that I'm looking at this Retirement Fund Act right now. Well, there are countless articles that only have one item and it says one end. I mean, it's just not a big deal in the legal sense, but it shows that it might not be careful enough to process the text, so I suggest that if the whole article isn't deleted, too. And now what I think is very important and what in some way gives a picture of Croatia as a state also I don't think there's any evil intention but it just turned out. The Law on Infringements allows certain infringements to be waived by a special law. The general limitation period is relatively one year plus one more, two years, in execution the same thing and usually the legislator used that possibility in serious violations or those sensitive, so he prescribed longer limitation deadlines. And now that I've seen it done here, I've thought about it so well that it's such a terrible offense that we've been allowing the 12 years of the system to deal with something that's committed that offense. For six years, in the very misdemeanor procedure to an absolute statute of limitations and another six years of execution. And then I watched those violations and I have to say that none of them seem so scary to me, especially this article 61, it's a violation that you don't have a mailbox to say or to run it messyly. So is it such a violation that we've dragged 12 years of people through the body of a misdemeanor? I suggest you move it because it is simply not a beautiful picture for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41559	Thank you very much. The replica of Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41560	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs! I don't know if this is a replica. I couldn't say the correction of the incorrect assumption because my colleague Josipovic did not say that delivery in the judiciary is better if it is delivered by private couriers but I certainly agree that delivery in the judiciary is extremely important and in administrative procedures and that it is bad but I argue it is responsible from my own experience that it is equally bad and when it is left to private courier companies. So that wasn't the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41561	Thank you very much. Five minutes on behalf of the IDS Club, Mrs Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41562	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps it would still be important to say in the end that destroying competition in the field of courier services is the first step and I assume that HP will also go to those involved in payment traffic. We have a chance to read and see ads from FINA companies or FINA institutions, financial institutions through which half of the postal traffic will now go through or around 250 million kuna, and that amount is that citizens will pay bills through FINA and not through mail because in this case, what they are offered through FINA is cheaper and better. I wonder if we'll also have a few months ahead of us the law to go to the FINA so that mail can charge still the most expensive service in terms of finance. I think the ministry should except that it only goes to the post office and protects the state-owned company, and I agree that the state-owned company should be protected, but in this case I have a feeling that the post office or one spoiled child who asks Mom and Dad for more and more and it's never enough for her. I'm curious about how to deal with the gray economy because we have shipments of any letters, packages with many other ways where neither services are paid nor VAT nor anything. As far as Mr. Loncar is concerned, I have the impression that as a member of the Supervisory Board you have a sense that you have done nothing about restructuring the Croatian Post Office and now everything is bothering you and that everything on the Croatian market should be abolished in order to allow Croatian mail to survive to be restructured, to have a positive balance and to make a Croatian privatisation, which, of course, would ultimately again benefit from privatisation in a Croatian way. I suggest you go to third reading. We have given amendments and I really ask if we will seriously deal with this law so that all interested parties can sit at the table because no job in Croatia can be destroyed and neither can courier companies. We need to be as social-sensitive advocates, we can't side with each other. And the fact that our judiciary and our state were ineffective and let ten years of companies operate without sanctions, I got the information that no offense in these ten years, that no courier company was reported guilty, whether criminal or otherwise doing anything that wasn't legal. But, and we don't have any convictions that we can at least call on these guys to work illegally and now we're going to shut them down. I could raise my hand immediately for this law if the mail could guarantee that all couriers would take over and that they would continue to work. But no one can guarantee it these days. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41563	Thank you very much. First of all, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41564	Mr. Vice-President Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac has injured Rule 214. Let me explain. You colleagues were consistently inconsistencies here when you said I didn't do anything for restructuring. You obviously don't know what the supervisory board's job is. I couldn't do what I could in a few months, and that's not my job. Second, you're talking about my guilty conscience. What am I supposed to be guilty of? Well, I guess you should have a guilty conscience because you're someone's very bad spokesperson here, which was seen in your first reading when every little bit on your cell phone you flew out of the hall to get instructions on what you're going to say. And believe me, I have entered the functioning of the Croatian Post Office very well, and I have seen those you advocate what they have done to the Croatian Post Office and ask them how many taxes they have paid over the past year. That's about the Rules of Procedure. I've got a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41565	But it's not his conduct in the lead to the general rules of conduct.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41566	What do you mean, it's not? She's questioning me. What was I supposed to do there? What are my powers? Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41567	It wasn't that bad. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41568	I'm not cursing, I'm just saying no to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41569	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41570	A colleague of Dorotea Pesic said that the post office is a spoiled child from Dad and Mom, it is absolutely not true. Look at how the Croatian Post Office ended in 2003 and how it ended in 2004, it was led by the administration you set up because you were, or your party members of the coalition government. I ended last year with 137 million kuna losses and in the first 5 months already, compared to the same period last year, are positive for a million kuna. And like this, if I don't keep talking like this, but you'll see what the results will be in the end. And these 137 million kuna minuses should be thanked to the very ones you support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41571	Thank you very much. It can be considered a correction because apparently mail is not a child but a post office but, I mean, well, let's move on. Final Mr. Secretary of State Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41572	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have remained in debt for a few more direct questions, i.e. the answer to a few direct questions, so I will also take advantage of this final, final address, and in that sense. Ms Antičević-Marinović, a respected representative, stated that the post office refuses to implement the provisions of the Law by administrative procedure, litigation procedure, etc. The mail, of course not, without any claim to defend the mail, no, I'm going to read about it in the end, but it definitely doesn't say that it refuses to carry out, it may in any case not be effective enough to carry out certain tasks in the delivery of court letters. But I'll remind you that according to the Law of Infractions and the regulation that was passed during the time you were a minister, it was allowed for couriers to deliver court letters. One of these letters was also addressed to Secretary of State Drazen Breglec, delivered from the City Express a few days ago to my desk, in which he called for a court and said that the case in which I am the defendant was appointed to the Municipal Court in Zabok, which will indeed conduct the criminal proceedings, in an oral conversation with Mrs. Sanja Mazali, I am coming to know that this clearly coordinated pressure on the state official caused by the City Express company, which calls me to a lawsuit against me at the moment. I am not, of course, complaining or afraid of this farce that will be carried out because she, as she was in the previous reading of the farces of the non-existent initiative then, has not yet been registered in the register but has announced that she will submit a report to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Of course, the application was submitted on the first or second day after they had received the entry solution, the application was considered in the meantime, unanimously rejected on the commission, as was the only possible procedure and the competition protection agency which decommissioned the solution was absolutely negative. So this kind of pressure from the secretary of state won't scare you. I'm ordering those who do it. In fact, you can only strengthen it on the tenacity of Croatia to bring very valuable assets with full responsibility to the level needed and not allow its weakness and then privatization of one kuna as it was said in a previous debate but with reverse connotation that it is precisely what we want. So, of course, it is the responsibility of the Croatian government that condition the strengthening of Croatian mail, strengthening Croatian mail, which means, of course, restructuring which I will conclude in two sentences once more about it. However, here it was, here it is necessary to give an even more answer on the fact that the honourable representative of the Korenika asked how I changed my mind. I would like to remind you that I was not a state official and that this intensity, these amendments and the addition of the basic Law on Postage strengthening the basic idea and intention of the original law, is not a single new solution in this Amendment of the Law. So, accordingly, I hope that you will also give support to this Law because these amendments and additions to the law go towards strengthening that law that you then proposed and which the former majority voted on. At the end of the insinuation that inspectors will only protect the interests of mail if they remain inspectors within the ministry is completely deplaced because they could say that all inspectors will only protect, the sole interest of state-owned companies and it is not at all impossible to deny it in any other way or imply this claim. However, it was wrong of the legislators of the Korenika to state that we had four centres of mail and now to introduce the 21st center of the post office. It is true that the post office had four regional centres, so it had three levels of governance, a post office centre, four regional centres and 21 county postal centre. One of the first moves of the new administration to come in December last year was to abolish an unnecessary administrative level. Four regional centres have been abolished and 21 other post office county centres remain. So that's the real truth. Four managerial, for example, or leading posts in the Croatian Post Office have been abolished and not out of four of the 21st, it is true, you can check it was one of the first concrete moves of the new Croatian Post Office. The Supervisory Board of the Croatian Post Office, which I am the basis for the Government's decision, is not important to say without my knowledge, I learned after being appointed but I do, I believe in the job description. One of the first decisions was to reduce the number of members of the administration. By December last year, the number of members of the Croatian Post Office 5. Since December last year, the number of members of the Croatian Post Office 3. So we set out as, as a supervisory board from the head, and I can say so in the political jargon, we may have sacrificed two managerial additional places, despite the fact that there may be something different and different from what was before, so at least 6 leading places in the first two moves have been abolished and thus contributed to making Croatian mail and this administrative section more efficient but also less cost. Of course, we will consider the amendments that the esteemed representative Josipovic has submitted. The first look at them suggests that they are worthy of attention and you will see from the obvious that the result will also be appropriate. Final mail needs to be strengthened. Why? Because Croatian mail has a specific mission. They have a mission to provide universal services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions. They have to do it. The second opportunised request, which is expected to justify full liberalisation. Complete liberalisation is definitely the direction to go and end in the next few years. There is no other model that works in the world other than the model that a public operator who has a duty to perform universal service throughout the area is strong enough on the one hand to withstand market competition pressure and on the other hand can perform a universal service as well as a mission. And that is why Croatian mail needs to be strengthened, and therefore I ask you to support these amendments and amendments to the law because it is only going in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41573	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by Mrs. Agent Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41574	Unfortunately, it is not true what Mr. Breglec said that mail may be ineffective but that it adheres to the Law of Criminal Procedure and Administrative Procedure. You see when it comes to the recommended shipment then they round up "insured, did not ask" and consider the recommended shipment to be delivered. So, according to the Post Regulations, which I did not bring, she brought her own-initiative mail despite the opposition of the Ministry to comply with the laws on criminal or litigation proceedings. Therefore, no re-delivery of recommended consignments shall be made as provided. Which means it's inserted down into the mailbox instead of climbing to the 5th, 6th, 7th or 12th floor. And I'm really sorry the court is calling you, but it has nothing to do with us. And the police are coming to the door, and it's perfectly justified that you give us a call because she didn't find us at home. Well, no one thinks it's pressure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41575	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41576	We are going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail. Here we have a proposal for clubs of HSP, IDS and MP Miroslav Korenika, a proposal for a conclusion that reads: The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Post will be carried out. Please engage. We can vote. The result? 33 for closure, 6 abstentions, 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to debate and vote on amendments. Secretary of State Drazen Breglec. Amendment 1 to the representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41578	Amendment 1 shall be adopted in a way that the new Article 61a. delete the current article 61b. becomes Article 61a. and, accordingly, Article 38(1) is amended and reads as follows: "A new Article 61a is added beyond Article 61a. which reads: " So the amendment is accepted with this supplement that is more accurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41579	So the amendment was accepted, right, with this correction? All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41580	Correction is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41581	Then he was accepted with that correction. Okay. Amendment 2 also includes representatives of Josipovic. This is where he proposes if the Proposer does not accept Amendment 1 I propose this amendment. Since you accepted Amendment 1 then you do not need to talk about this second one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41582	Thank you. That was my explanation, too. So Amendment 2 has no need...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41583	I ask the mayors of Koprivnica and Velika Gorica to... Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41584	It is not accepted, given that there is a given and alternative in the follow-up will be made known. This one won't be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41585	We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41586	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41587	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendments to MP Miroslav Korenika. Amendment 1?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41588	The amendment is not accepted. We believe that adding the proposed definition of written documentation is not acceptable because neither the European Union Directive nor the World Postal Convention contain that concept, so we believe that this amendment is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41589	I ask the mayor of Varazdin not to communicate this way with the recent mayor of Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41590	I would ask a vote on all my amendments for efficiency if I didn't explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41591	E, we have to go in a row. Who's for Amendment One? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41592	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41593	The vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41594	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41595	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Fourth?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41596	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41597	The vote. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifth?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41598	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41599	The vote. He didn't get the necessary majority. The IDS representative club is being amended. Amendment 1?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41600	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41601	A colleague of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41602	Well, the intensity of this amendment was to really define the reception of consignors as described in the rules of the World Organisation and the Postal Union. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41603	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41604	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41605	A colleague of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41606	I'd like to get at least one explanation from the secretary of state about the amendments, not just whether it's accepted or not. The introduction of a new concept of shipment collection explains the difference between reception and collection in accordance with World Trade Organisation standards. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41607	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41608	Amendment 3 of the Representatives Clubs is not accepted. Explanation. The addition of the proposed concept of the document cannot be accepted because the World Postal Convention Directive does not know the concept either. The postal directive knows the concept of the exchange of documents and this concept is contained in the Law on Post Offices in full compliance with the definition set out in the Directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41609	Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41610	All the objections that have so far been different between postal and courier services have just been in the definition of business documentation and I think that the problems between these two services would finally be resolved. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41611	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41612	It's unacceptable. According to the final proposal of the Law in question, courier services are services of takeover, not collection and transfer and transfer to the address of the recipient. The final proposal for a law also contains the notion of a postal consignment containing both written consignments and packages. In short, it is far more precise and nomotechnically more correct formulation that is in the original proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41613	A colleague of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41614	I gave this amendment because I noticed there was a conflict between this law and the Company Act, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41615	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41616	Amendment 5 is not accepted. Article 14(4), which is proposed to delete, clarifys the concept of direct transfer referred to in Article 3 of that Article and is not directed to delete it, thus moreover, in the discussions yesterday, there were direct questions from parliamentarians, which is direct transmission. We can't accept erasing that idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41617	Amendment 5 withdrawn. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41618	Amendment 6 shall not be accepted, in accordance with the Labour Act, the term worker is used, for employees of all postal service providers, as well as courier services, and in this amendment the term takes over which one of the previous amendments is disputed, and one contradiction is used. The current formulation of the proposal is more precise and nomothechically correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41619	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41620	Amendment 6 withdrawn. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41621	Amendment 7 cannot be accepted by reason of the provision proposed to delete the courier's service provider under its powers under the Act ai application to receive any consignment which meets the prescribed conditions, it cannot be accepted to delete that provision because it would simply lead to the irregular provision of courier and postal services by the operator.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41622	How we have taken over international agreements and Stabilisation and Association Agreements and have committed ourselves not to pass more restrictive laws and this article is going towards it more restrictively. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41623	Who's for this amendment number seven? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41624	Amendment 8 is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into The postal law provides for the area of reserved postal services while for courier services in Article 14 it is stated that they are carried out on the free market, meaning that this is not a reserved postal service. The obligation of separation to be proposed by the amendment is also resolved in Article 5. Proposal of the law in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41625	We at the IDS Club thought it wasn't defined enough and that's why we gave this amendment. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41626	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41627	Amendment 9. The IDS representative club was previously accepted since it was identical to Mr Josipovic's amendment, so it was already accepted, it is identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41628	Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41629	I have to admit, I didn't hear, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41630	The amendment has already been accepted, is identical to the amendment submitted by MP Josipovic and has previously been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41631	Then I take it back, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41632	Amendment 9 withdrawn. Little bit of a bench here. Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41633	It is not accepted that the proposal to remain in force for the provision under which the Courier Services Act was to be adopted cannot be accepted, in fact, this debate has been conducted in that tone so that this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41634	Representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41635	Dragging
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41636	Amendment 10 withdrawn. And Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41637	It is not accepted on the grounds that the Law has entered into force 8. The proposal not to enter into force on 8 but 60 days is not acceptable, in the light of this amendment it is stated that the amendment is proposed for the purpose of enabling legal persons to adapt to the law imposed until such an identical time limit is already given when the Post Law is passed, the deadline of 60 days has expired on 6 January 2004. We do not consider it necessary to adapt under this Act for 60 days because the applications to be made by couriers have been subject to this obligation for more than a year and a half, so we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41638	I ask for a vote, I believe that not everyone can adapt within 8 days of the entry into force of the Law, i.e. the publication in the National Journal and after eight days. I think we all need to set a proper deadline for them to comply with this law, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41639	Please, who's for Amendment 11? He didn't get the necessary majority. We also have four amendments to the Government that have come within the deadline and become an integral part of the Law. We're done with the amendments, thank you, good-looking secretary of state. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail. Please engage. You can vote. Score. With 83 votes in favour, 11 abstentions and 9 against the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Post in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41640	We move to two points that are proposed to connect, which is: - Proposal for a law on humanitarian demining, first reading of P.Z. No. 331; - Proposal for a law on special rights in the pension insurance of persons employed in demining operations, first reading of P.Z. No. 332; so we'll connect these two points. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply in the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. If he wants, and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Do the work authorities want to further explain the proposal? We have a report from the board. There's no one on these three boards. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of the PGS, Mr Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41641	Mr. President, no, no, I assume that the motionors or representatives are here, right? Are you for this one, too? Oh, no? No, I don't. Then, in absentia, I welcome the representatives of the motionary. My colleagues and colleagues, I think it is incorrect if there is no representative of the promoter here for a reason because it is not only important matter but we really wanted to help and here are a series of suggestions regarding this Law to try to help us with another reading with a more quality law on benches. So I don't know, Mr. President, what I'm about to do right now, but I'm just going to say that at the PGS Club, we are of course in agreement that the existing Mine Action Act is insufficient in many of the elements, especially in the missing professional components. It is certain that the existing law requires better definition of relations between the participants in the demining process from reconnaissance to demining itself. There is a way to comply with this law and with our country's international obligations, but also a termologically certain repair of many things. But here I say now I really don't know what to do? Only when no one's gonna come in front of the promoter so I can go ahead and ask them to try to read our messages tomorrow from the phonogram tomorrow, or we'll fax them messages because I thought the purpose was our... SMS, no, I'm very clumsy with SMS and I wouldn't have been able to send it for two days so, here, but I'm still going to start by respecting the matter and the ones to which this Law applies. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So let's do this. I will essentially present a 15th of our proposal to improve the text of the Law and propose what we think should be changed to make this Law really significantly better than it is today in the second reading. In Article 4, there is one uncertainty as to the proposal of the national demining programme itself or the demining plan itself. The first sentence reads: "The Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, brings a national programme," and the third sentence reads, "The proposal for a national programme is made by CROMAC," so the Croatian Mine Action Centre, with the consent of the Ministry and so on. So that's where we need to coordinate anyway, that's not clear. It seems to me that I understand what they were going to say, but everyone has to understand what the promoters thought and the law has to be interpreted as it says, as anyone thinks it does. I therefore ask that the fourth article clarify the procedure itself, the course of the proposal of the national programme and the demining plan. We then have three groups of objections in Article 7. First of all, it's about idea projects. Namely, when it comes to idea projects here, Article 7 states that they are the concerns of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and part of their business, in order to later find that the idea project of searching and demining is part of the documentation offered, so basically candidates who participate in the competition will produce that part of the idea, namely, and the idea projects for it and there should certainly be clarified by what sequence and who makes it. Then, if it clearly states that the CROMAC Croatian Mine Action Centre is developing a proposal for a national programme and a plan, which is set out in Article 4, then the 7th article should also write it as part of their regular commitments, and this is missing. Finally, the 7th article at the very top of page 9 states that CROMAC shall carry out the tasks referred to in paragraph 2 of this article other than those referred to in subparagraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 11 and that these tasks may also be entrusted to other legal and natural persons. We think it's absolutely incorrect. The CROMAC has been formed, founded precisely in order to clearly unburden the ministry so that they would run these very tasks and now it turns out that they would be happy to transfer these jobs to a third party. I believe that the only ministry may transfer powers from CROMAC which are the primary tasks to another body if they consider that CROMAC is not competent to carry out these tasks, so the Ministry rather than CROMAC to decide for themselves on the further transfer of competences. Article 9 here is a small confusion. Namely, even the direct sequence is related to the first authorisation to carry out demining operations. This approval under Article 9 is regulated in a way that the ministry will grant approval, but immediately thereafter, whoever receives the approval must run to the Croatian Mine Action Centre to get an assessment of the capacity to carry out those tasks. That's really funny. We are trying to talk about the stop shop in a much more complex matter, and here is essentially an unnecessary administration, a more complicated process of obtaining rights and participation in the process of demining itself. Article 13 is replaced by the following: I support the proposal to essentially make it possible for a donor of financial resources to be told who the job should be given to. That's how it works. Which is fine. Clearly, the person who gets the job must have the authority and authority to do the job competently. So he chooses. But what I have, and I have participated in countless actions to collect demining donations over the past few years, have often been asked by donors and to demine a specific area for which they would donate funds. I think we should also be able to enable donors, of course, if adequate documentation is made regarding this area by CROMAC. If there is no such documentation then I agree that we cannot allow it, but if there is documentation then and such a choice would certainly not bother, it would, however, stimulate donors that everyone for their own area for some reason sentimental or other reasons can choose a performer and an area that wants to be demined. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 19 to 23 of the Financial Regulation. Here they seem to me completely clear obligations, legal persons, or craftsmen versus CROMAC, but it is not clear, the reverse relationship is clear. We at the HNS PGS club suggest that we should also explain here those services or documents that will be given by CROMAC to those who will compete for the job. It should certainly be technical results for us, that they actually see what awaits them so that they can give the offers correctly, and that part, especially the part related to the competitions, it must be transparent, we need to know what everything is going to get into that documentation, which is what we, the candidates who are going to come forward, and that segment is not well done in this bill proposal, and we suggest that this part of the text of the bill is significantly improved. Article 25 says that the contractor must inform the police administration and a number of other entities, but in the end there are other authorities and legal persons whose work is part of the work directly related to demining. It's an inadmissible formulation. And the second, and watch out for the sea, he has to notify and he doesn't write who. So he should try to find out who he has to notify. Here, an absolute proposer must write down all those bodies that he assumes should be notified by a clear contractor. This formulation certainly doesn't hold water. I was also a little surprised that the same article said that a contractor must inform not only the county police department but also the police station. Because I have a feeling that the police department in that county is not communicating with their stations, which is a bit unusual and even ugly to see standing in one law, but that the contractor must inform one and the other. Article 28 states that authorised legal entities are obliged to ensure the presence of a sanitary vehicle, a doctor and a technician during demining. Watch out for three subjects. Their relationship, they can all go down with their shoulders and say so we thought the other or the third would provide it. I understand what they meant to say, probably the promoter meant to say that in the case of a technical survey, and he does CROMAC then he should ensure it, when doing demining then the performer, then he should secure it, but that's not how it stands. The applicant must clarify that there would be no confusion as to who should essentially ensure these conditions in the demining area. Article 30 behind the word "destruction" should be added to the word "mines", because you can think of anything else. That certainly isn't enough text to explain with that one word. This is the second sentence in Article 30. Article 33 shall then be accompanied by expert examinations to be organised. This article should absolutely be brought into line with Article 77, as there is one body in Article 33 which organises an expert examination and in Article 77 of the other bodies. So it can't be, it has to be aligned. It's obviously a mistake. Someone who worked part of it obviously did not read what someone else prepared in the final part of this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official It should be said, that is, to explain who is particularly relevant in that part of the sentence when it is said to refer to people who are not in a working relationship, how someone can get into this job without being in a working relationship higher than all the relatively complicated procedures of getting a job, I do not understand that there is a need to explain that. Article 66th row, the minister said, could order a solution to remove identified shortcomings, so the minister can order a solution. He must order the removal of the deficiencies, he must do so and even it would be good to specify the deadline within which to do so. In Article 67, we do not agree that the director of CROMAC has the practical disseminating right to adopt regulations and therefore to decide on the selection of performers, we believe that the Ministry should adopt these regulations and clearly why we, as Parliamentarians, can then call the Ministry and the Minister this way we can only do it indirectly and we cannot in any case affect any possible failures that will happen. Then Article 71 will be punished by a legal person or craftsman if they are not registered to carry out these tasks, how can he get that job if he is not registered and has passed the procedure at CROMAC very complex, I do not understand that, that should be clarified. And I already mentioned article 77 when I was talking about 33 that he needed to be harmonised on professional examinations. Here is the club HNS PGS will support this Law if certain corrections are implemented which we have now spoken of because that now must vote on this Law we would definitely be against but we believe that these 15 corrections can significantly improve the text and of course accept it at the next reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41642	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Željko Ledinski, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41643	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few words on the draft law on humanitarian demining. First of all, I have to realize that one of these important laws that is passed in the later hours without a proposal I don't think is correct from the representatives, maybe the new minister has a lot of obligations today but here if he was busy, maybe he could come up with a new miner at least to be here with us and get a little bit more involved with that bill proposal. What I'm saying is, first of all, we still have over 9% of the surfaces that are mined today, most of which are under the woods, which I personally know very well, and I know how much damage is impossible to master in these areas. The damages are not only on forests but also on other buildings, but also on agricultural land which is also not in function, which has already grown in these 15 years and probably also become some kind of forest on most parts. And then I really don't understand that when we already knew that this law would go today that at least the proposer couldn't be here or at least someone from the CROMAC to present to us what we should do with the proposals of those laws. It is clear that order should be introduced, in certain operations that have been so far, and in that part of the HSS Club will support that this law goes into another reading and that we come up with a better-quality solution in this problem and we know that there have been many times vague situations and on issues of implementation and competitions and certain lobbying for certain companies because all these companies that are dealing with these today are our former high-ranking military officers leading them mainly or their wives. I therefore agree, however, that order should be put in place in this problem and that, under clear and certain conditions, it should be possible to demining the entire country as soon as possible. I think that the plan that has been announced that by 2010 we will have demined the entire area that it is certainly not feasible, especially because this whole time, very small funds are being invested both from the state budget and from other budgets and local self-government and state-owned enterprises that are participating and donations seem less and less to me, so that both at this rate and at these means we have today we will not achieve the objectives set long ago, means 2010. Croatia without mines. In that part, I'm sure these suggestions that are listed here, and I'll look back on just some of them. First of all, I think it's a good thing we listed here in detail what humanitarian demining is all about. In particular, I would point out jobs related to the production of mine suspected surfaces in the production of documentation, in the pursuit of search and demining operations, when I talk about mine suspected areas, I must say that in that part of the work that was started a few years ago, that the Croatian Mine Action Centre has done a lot, at least as far as mine suspected areas under the forests of the Republic of Croatia and in that part of such a type of business that must be done in a good way, should be done as possible and should be valued as possible. When these mine suspected surfaces are based on all possible possibilities that exist, it means finding certain minefields, the knowledge used in this section is reduced to that real measure, then we are automatically clear that we will also need to demine a small part of the space. I have to say, as far as forestry is concerned, we expect a lot from that part of it, I'm now speaking more as a forest expert who's been working on these jobs, we expect a lot from the quick recovery of these minefields, which is why. Because if we were still somewhere around 9 to 10% of the area, especially those under the forest, mined when you convert it into some economic equivalent means that for 15 years we haven't been able to master it, 10% times 15 somewhere around 1 and a half hours we can say the Croatian forests were inaccessible, when we look at how valuable it is for these 15 years it's very easy to calculate, that it's some 3 billion kunas just because of the inability of managing in that space, the value of something that would have been achieved during that time. When we look at how much that value would bring through employment in the wood industry, then it must be multiplying, and we must say in that case, it's not a small amount of damage that's due to the fact that we can't master that part. It is the same with agricultural land where the effect is likely to be greater and with other construction and other land that is not able to be used. That's why I think it's a good idea that we're right to develop detailed proposals that need to be done in this Bill proposal on those specific items, and I think that this humanitarian demining business, which so far has been more just the direct demining that has been spoken of, where minefields and others have been known to deal with, and here I'm saying, for the last years right at that reconnaissance and the rest of us have come to a significant shift and a reduction of mine suspicion. However, when we talk about who can work on humanitarian demining operations, Article 9 states that the application for approval is submitted to the Ministry and then in another article that evidence of the registration of a legal person in a court register or an NGO on the register of associations or craftsmen. I don't think it's good to say that associations can file demands, NGOs. It's a good thing they're working on fundraising, but I don't think it makes sense for them to be demining carriers. I think it must be according to the applicable law means a company that's registered, which has a trade right for it and that meets certain legal requirements. And in that part, I do not think it is well stated in this proposal in Article 9 to allow NGOs that are in a register of associations to request a request to carry out demining operations. I think it would be a good idea for the associations to deal more with the collection of donations and then, in the second part, that part of the work is done exclusively by qualified companies that are for it. If, with the funds that are issued today in the budget that we had previously had in the regular reports, we would try and find additional funds and through certain donations that I said earlier, there was just less and less, through certain activities. Here I have to say Croatian forests regularly, somewhere around ten million kunas separate annually from their business to demining certain forest areas. Why would I bring that up? Because the priorities of the demining state were clear, first houses, buildings, industrial land, then agricultural and forests came to an end. However, we have parts of today in the country that are protected objects of nature, which are still inaccessible. I think that at least in that section it would be good if some of the funds that could be found and, above all, I was thinking of budgets from municipalities, cities to raise as many of these funds as possible, as much as possible and then allow for such and humanitarian demining and other things to be implemented. This section of Article 6 defines and the county heads define their priorities. Some counties have done so and have already demined practically their entire surface which was mined, clearly where it was perhaps a little less than it was in Bjelovar-Belogorian County and here I personally had the opportunity to bring the first mine plan of a county to Croatia during my time as mayor in Bjelovar County. And only one systematic work can then be achieved through a greater number of years to the final result in this activity. In the end, I would conclude this debate by appealing to anyone who can help with it, and that is what we MPs are to lobby positively for the collection of as many of these funds as possible. And the proposal for this law can go to another reading with certain improvements that have already been discussed, and I think it would be good if, when at least the final proposal here was presented to at least the resolute minister present here because this matter is certainly more important than some of the others we talked about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41644	Thank you very much. What's the handover between the former minister and the new one and the secretary of state is also on the handover that there are no shortfalls or surpluses later. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41645	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Here are a few details or facts that should really be passed when it comes to the law. I will initially call or mention those most exposed to this demining process, which are pyrotechnics. Well, I don't think it's a waste of no matter how many of us there are here tonight to repeat one truly devastating and sad fact that from 1991 to today, 102 pyrotechnics have been killed in demining operations by 42 of them. As of today, from 1991 to today, a thousand 555 civilians have been killed in mine fields, of which 339 people have died, with what my colleague Ledinski said still believed to be almost 10% of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia being irradiated by mine and explosive means. What may be interesting by listing the literature a little bit about it and on the Internet that unfortunately the problem of minefields has been spoken a lot for the past ten years, for the last two years, mainly in the context of the loss of pyrotechnicians, or in their struggle to adopt a new Mine Action Act, and that a little bit has begun to understand or think about the problem behind us, and it has begun to think that this problem, which will be dealt with in good works by some kind of charity action, humanitarian activities, fundraising, etc. less the problem of the state itself. And then this law came up that the unions of pyrotechnicians and all those institutions that have been looking for a number of years as exactly the government's response to the fact that a really huge problem that has remained as a consequence of the war has finally been resolved and that, indeed, according to the plan, the demining of Croatia is completed by 2010. What is the value of this law is, in addition to regulating issues related to the content of the demining plan of the Republic of Croatia on the element of supervision of the work of demining which I consider extremely important, regulation of the way in which demining areas or buildings are taken over, but what I said at the beginning, and by which I started to argue that this law regulates among other things the rights of injured pyrotechnicians or the rights of members of the families of killed pyrotechnicians. First of all, those rights relating to an increase in the insurance rate and the exact list of rights that are exercised by those persons in the event of an injury or death in the performance of their operations or demining operations. A novelty is also introduced as far as I am aware of the previous law, it is equalising the legal position of foreign and domestic legal and natural persons and pyrotechnicians in carrying out demining operations in the Republic of Croatia. The expert supervision carried out by the Croatian Mine Action Centre is also established and the Ministry of Interior continues to retain that inspection supervision of the performance of the work. I believe, and it can also be concluded from reading this law that the government that proposed this law has also taken into account the current law or provisions of earlier laws, but also, indeed, taking into account the economic situation of the same through the right offered to enable the country to have a quality of payment, but also the correct attitude towards those who suffer in this process in the demining process, i.e. a correct relationship with families, victims of pyrotechnicians. Since the Law is in two readings, I believe that until the final, adoption, that is, the proposal of the law in the final form, these remarks that my colleagues have said before me and that this law will ultimately have its purpose, and this is the end of the process of demining within the planned deadline, and thus one of the great consequences of the Homeland War, indeed, will lead to the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41646	Thank you very much. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic also shares the same fate as the predecessor. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41647	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, in my presentation, I'll look back on this proposal for a special law on pension insurance for demining employees. Although in fact the demining process began even during the Homeland War and more intensely in 1992 it was still a serious problem for many areas that were affected by work but for border areas such as the area of my county, i.e. this county area. And out of the 13 thousand square meters of the area that was to be mined in the 98th year, according to the United Nations methodology, there are 1174 km of squares left, and here I can say that in my county you can see more often when you pass marked mine areas. And although here is a significant part of the territory demining, unfortunately the danger of mines being threatened in Croatia, I also say in this area that I come from so that only in the first six months of 2005 has been killed by three people among whom one person and from our territory simply have no patience to wait no longer to process their land and then there are tragedies. While I would say that these explosive devices and mines died in 98 and 258 people, including 39 pyrotechnics. That is why I find it truly important and fair and important and just and this bill which provides that demining employees as pyrotechnicians and pyrotechnic supervisors exercise the right to retire under more favourable conditions. These persons mean they would exercise the right to retire with at least 30 years of employment with that 10 years of meaning they spent on demining operations, really spent on demining operations, which means who they are, and the internship in the Homeland War but for a single period of time. And we know that they are Croatian defenders with the mahogany of pyrotechnics, so this has all been considered. And it is also noted that the amount of pension would be determined on the basis of the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Military Employees, Police Officers and Authorised Officials which I think really pyrotechnicians belong to these categories at the very least. These changes, as I said, I fully support and I believe that it is the removal of one injustice against these employees who are working on demining and doing really one hard, responsible and psychologically demanding job. We see here from the material that such persons as they have, pyrotechnics who have demining powers have only 600 counting, too, so that those younger populations mean that they would retire somewhere around 210. Hopefully then the situation and the economic situation will be better, and this increase in rights will not be more difficult to finance. And here, in the end, let me say that I once again support and welcome this law. I think he's really needed and just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41648	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41649	Dear Mr. President, fellow Members and fellow MPs, although it is too late to feel that I am coming from the carlovakia county of one of the mine's most polluted in Croatia and say a few words about this law and to support what I said to one of the mine's most polluted areas of 148 million square meters, so 148 square miles of surface area is a mine suspected area in the carlovakia county. And if an annual demining would be at a rate of 3 million square miles such as that, square meters as it is now, this process would take 49 years, but surely 148 million square meters is just a suspicious surface, hopefully or quite certain that it is not all mine polluted after all. The demining began already in Croatia with the beginning of the Homeland War, and this is an opportunity to thank the engineering units of the Croatian Army and the specialists of the MUP who essentially started this pioneering work in Croatia, then in 96, the Law on Mine Action was launched by the AKD Mungos and later by the centre, the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which introduced other companies that are already quite numerous. This Law therefore lays down demining operations and says that legal and natural persons who have registered trades are the ones who can do the job. What is certainly good is that this Law establishes some new additional rights for pyrotechnics because their status, we agree, has not been adequately resolved so far. Some things are said here on behalf of clubs from other parties that I wanted to tell you about, so I won't repeat them much, maybe just by articles. A few articles, in Article 7, I think that as a public authority, the Croatian Mine Action Centre should not yet assess the ability of authorised legal persons but rather that the Ministry should do so mainly as to be told in Article 3 that the Ministry is training and conducting exams for pyrotechnics, so it is not logical for the Ministry to do so for individuals, therefore, for persons, and for legal persons in some way, consent to give the Croatian Mine Action Centre. In Article 9 of the Application for Authorisation, I agree, I think that this is what my colleague Ledinski said that there should be no government associations here because I don't think they should be involved in direct demining affairs, they have played a very important role and they have done a lot to raise funds to meet people, citizens with problems of demining, however, I leave the process and the business of demining legal or physical persons, i.e. craftsmen who are therefore trained. And in this article, with evidence to be provided by a legal or natural person, evidence of having the right business space, I think that it can also be regulated by a certain contract of use, therefore it does not have to be owned but what is still important and this is later in an article that regulates the elements of the contract, a legal person or a craftsman who will carry out that job must have an adequate space for the accommodation of explosive things and close to work where it works is not enough to have it only in the headquarters of a company registered but also in the immediate vicinity of the workshop itself. And allow only Article 19 and 20 to comment on where it is said that an idea implementation project is produced by the Croatian Mine Action Centre and an implementing project of search or demining is produced by an authorised legal person or craftsman. This provision, if we try to rewrite it to construction practice, looks like about an investor will give an idea solution. He will give some sort of draft or sketch then we will call a tender based on this sketch to select the most favourable bidder, therefore conclude a contract and then after the contract is concluded, the contractor will attach or provide the implementing documents based on which a particular job will work. It may be said a little vaguely in this categorization and terminology, but I believe that the Croatian Mine Action Centre should prepare, make all the documentation based on which all bidders can, on the basis of the same bases, offer a job, and only in that case, can the price be a decisive factor because in this way, it is possible to do certain abuses, and in demining, I do not think that it should go to the expense of quality. I'll cut my discussion short. I support this Law as well as the other Law on Pension Insurance Rights, because it also qualityises legislation in the field of demining. We also improve the status of people who deal with demining and I believe that the proposer will follow these suggestions that he has heard today or will read from the minutes and in the final proposal install them and come with even better material than this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-14-0.u41650	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the law, on the Proposal for a Law on humanitarian mine action and on the Proposal for a Law on Special Rights in Pension Insurance of Employees in Mine Action. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs would begin tomorrow to discuss the proposal for a pension fund law, and at the initiative of the Clubs of Representatives, they would start working with the session at 9am, at 9am, so I am also informing the Deputy Prime Minister of Mr Polancec, Minister Suker, State Secretary Vera Babic and Minister Branko Vukelic of being, because they should be here on behalf of the Government on the first of this bill, to be there at 9pm on time. Because we have a long debate about all of this that we have put into the agenda today, and in particular the vote. We have tomorrow and a debate on the establishment and selection of members of the State Judicial Council and this is a very complex voting procedure. So tomorrow we can end up in constitutional time so we don't have to go to an extraordinary session. If we're working without a break tomorrow with a start at 9:00 a.m., we could do it at a reasonable time tomorrow to finish the session. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 9:00. The proposal for a law on humanitarian demining was the first reading. I give the vote the following conclusion: The draft law on humanitarian demining is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 102 votes for and 1 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was accepted.
