ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53096	We are going to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the development project of the system of education, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 405. The Proposer is the Government. We've accepted an emergency procedure in determining the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Education, Science and Culture. State Secretary of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Nevio Šetić will further explain the short proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53097	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of a project to develop a system of education and education. Let me put it in a few words. By passing the law, this law confirms the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was concluded on 17 October 2005. In the equivalent of 67.8m euros. The basis for this law, i.e. the loan agreement, is contained in the Strategic Document of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the heading "Plan for Development of the system of education and education, 2005-2010". With this strategic and development document adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 9 June of this year, which is based on comprehensive thinking related to improvement in education and education. Which, as already known, rated this plan by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as the only one of the best in the region in the area of transition countries only holds the Polish better than this. The plan aims at developing and directing the entire policy, improving education and education as a system linking legal, human, material, scientific and professional assumptions. As I have already pointed out, the loan amount is 67.8m euros and it provides a solution to a number of projects. I'll bring out here, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, those key components that we've put into four projects. And this, improving the quality of efficiency of education and education based on the creation of a school of knowledge to improve the education system. Special attention is paid to the modernisation of the content of working methods in schools, the evaluation of achievements and the permanent professional training of teachers. The specific objective concerns decentralisation of education management. The overall system of education and education in its offer and implementation will be strengthened by harmonising with the European Union's educational standards. The second component that is particularly exposed is to encourage the permanent professional training of teachers and other educational employees, improve monitoring and evaluation. There are currently several categories of teachers in Croatia who are educated in different types of institutions. The medium-term and long-term goal for Croatian teacher staff is to achieve higher education qualifications for the whole profession in order to equalise the professional status and status of teacher staff with all levels of education. Since the national prom is being introduced since 2009, standards should be developed for monitoring and evaluation of achievements, as well as only the evaluation of students, teachers and schools, as well as the education of teaching. The third component consists of developing a management strategy for the education system and its effectiveness. So, reinforcements, management and leadership. A successful education and education system requires good administration and effective financial funding, together with other management mechanisms, the application of education policy allows for adequate distribution of work to those who make decisions, to those who manage, complemented by law, decentralisation of the authorities and reform of the funding system, increased the need to establish a different education and education administration, in particular in terms of evaluation and management of implementation and finally the fourth component refers very precisely to support the local level and innovation. Support for locally encouraged proposals for development plans for education and education as innovation within agreed criteria, development of systems of education and education. A part of this loan money will also be used to remove three-way teaching and to reduce two-way education in schools through the expansion of educational and educational infrastructure and its services to families and students through various offers of electoral and informal extracurricular activities. And finally, very briefly, I would like to say that this whole project, which is being implemented by 30 September 2009, should be realised. Here, thank you and stand at your disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53098	Thank you. The Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Education Science and Culture. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53099	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Law weighs a billion kuna, it carries with it a billion kuna, of which about half a billion kuna is a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and half a billion kuna from the Republic of Croatia must employ its funds, half of what it gives in the form of a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and I am the only registered speaker on behalf of the club. And so it usually happens to us that the issues that are really relevant, financially important, and this is about education, and I guess that's also important, actually on the way, and it almost doesn't really talk about TV, and it's been a two-day debate, and I don't think that this is the best way to deal with public funds, so this is about a billion kuna, and it's about the means that should be invested in the most vital system, the system where our future should be rested, and that's education. And indeed they say that the proposers of this Law that education is one of the main elements of the success and improvement of the Republic of Croatia, which we cannot agree with and we believe that this loan is absolutely necessary, so of course this Law, but we should see how we treat not only the Parliament what I just said but how exactly the entire administration refers to such laws, i.e. these loans. It is said that this is one of the main aspects of the success and improvement of the Republic of Croatia, while at the same time by adopting the 2006 budget, we have reduced the share of education and science in the overall cost of the state because the growth of the budget of the Ministry of Education and Sports was less than the total growth of the budget. This means that the share of the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports in the total budget from the state has been reduced. This speaks of what we believe and how we treat one of the most important aspects of the success and improvement of the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, the situation in this education sector is a little bad, but I'm not going to use bomb words, I'm just going to give you some basic information about it. A large number of our schools work in three shifts, in some parts of Zagreb the teaching hour is reduced to 40 minutes so it can be said that schools work even in 4 shifts, and we are talking about how it is the most important element of our success and improvement in the future. Our schools are unequipped, a large number of secondary schools are located in a blockade of their accounts so that these schools are unable to obtain even the most basic means to carry out the teaching process, the chalk, in some Zagreb schools students must bring paper or give 100 kuna so that they can photocopy tests that they will tomorrow or do not know when to write. This is the situation in our primary schools, and we believe that it is therefore the most vital and most important system for the development of the Republic of Croatia. Not to mention that the training of teachers is almost gone, it is completely controversial, somewhere where the principals managed to organize themselves well, save some money, but in most of our schools there is no training of teachers, and in particular there is no training of teachers as a system that exists at the level of the state, and of course in this as well as in any other vital segment, those who teach should also study themselves permanently. We do not have in society particularly developed this custom, but if there is somewhere to force it, organize it, suspend it then it is exactly a system of education and ultimately a classical topic, which is the bribery of our teachers in primary and secondary schools. It's the most underpaid group of civil servants with high and higher education. There is no state in this country, not only in the state administration, but a total of employees in the state who have high or higher education, and they must have it on the basis of the law, and that the average salary is somewhere around 4 thousand kuna, somewhere on a level or below the total salary average in the Republic of Croatia, and we are talking about how it is our vital area in which the success and improvement of the Republic of Croatia should be rested. What this reform process itself, which should have been supported by, should be said, with the Croatian National Education Standard for secondary schools, already this year has gone to first-generation class, which in 4 years will require national graduation, we have not developed the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, and we do not have a Croatian National Education Standard for High Schools yet. So how can we have programs, how can we have textbooks for these programs, and what will we face after three and a half years when these students are supposed to take the state's graduation? The Croatian National Education Standard for High Schools is only in the design phase, and national exams that should be continued from the beginning, from the 1st grade, to be based on this programme, based on textbooks which rest on it, in order to be able to conduct final exams so that state graduates should be prepared by national exams that are permanent and continuous, and we do not have a standard yet, we do not have a programme, we have no textbooks based on it, we just recently had this Law on textbooks, and the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education that needs to play a key role in this process is being pre-organised. We have here a few days or two ago awarded the Statute of the Centre which appeared before the Croatian Assembly with more than a year of draft centre as if we had infinite time. This is a process that should be concluded in the next few years and we only need more than a year to submit the statutes at the confirmation of the Croatian Parliament. So what we can expect about the other much more demanding processes in this system than the submission of one of the statutes of one center. The Government of the Republic of Croatia predicted that in 2010 at least half of the schools in the Republic of Croatia, primary schools will be schools with one shift, one-term teaching or school with full-time classes from 9 to 17 hours. In order for this to be achieved, it should be built somewhere around 40,000 square meters of classroom space, that's all. In order to achieve this, it should be possible to invest about three to four billion kunas in the next four years in order to achieve this plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a plan that is in itself in fact unambitious and these means here are only four or five times smaller, and that money will not be used for the construction of schools or at least mainly not, but for all other functions as mentioned here in this proposal, which means to improve the quality of education and education, so in a very broad sense, a permanent professional training of teachers, which is of course necessary, the education and education system management strategy is difficult to conclude. And support for economic development and regional development should certainly be but it should be much more precise in order to be able to understand what this is about. And when it comes to the management strategy, it's about the need for decentralisation. Well, it is forgotten that half a year ago in this House we passed laws to which the system of primary and secondary education is centralized. The appointment of school committees that were previously in direct school authority or parents we transferred to local self-government units. Teacherial boards and boards of parents have the right to propose but the final word is given by the representative body of the unit of local self-government and thus we have taken a step towards centralising that system and here we are talking about the need for its decentralisation, which I, of course, fully agree with. And this, like all of our systems, is mature for decentralisation and that decentralisation is necessary but we can't set it as a fundamental goal, to raise loans to achieve this, and we have just recently drawn moves that are completely in the opposite direction, not to say that the school boards have received some guidance on changing directors for example which they didn't have before. And that's the same step towards centralization of the system, and here we're talking about one of the objectives that will finance this loan of decentralisation of the system. Someone's doing something wrong. And finally, about how we're going to use those billions of kuna in the next four years. First of all, in the 2006 budget, we should have predicted about a hundred and 20 million kuna as our share in the loan, the share of the Republic of Croatia. This shows that you have indeed chosen this as a strategic area and that you are willing to invest half of that money yourself to get the rest of the loan. It was absolutely impossible to see from our budget. This, of course, does not apply to the already committed funds. How will the ministry be placed in this sense, where these money is, how it will acquire it, whether from what has already been hired and what looks like this description says so. Of course, it's not an idea. It's against the idea itself. Additional own resources should be employed. This is, of course, the same question, and of course it is absolutely unclear how these funds will be in which proportion and in which ratio they are spent. As a general guide to the objectives of the use of loans, I said a little about it before, such as improvement of quality, management strategy, support for economic and regional development, it is absolutely not enough for the Croatian Parliament to accept one such loan, one such law. The Croatian Parliament must go out with far more serious, much more precise, much clearer proposals in order to be able to perform the supervisory function of the Croatian Parliament. In this way, by citing the objectives of using the loan, we do not, in general, know anything in which way, in which respect, in which ratio this loan will be used. And in the end, I conclude. Of course you can't be against this loan. This loan is needed by the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary because it is a vital area for the future development of the Republic of Croatia but the way this bill is explained, the way it is prepared is absolutely below the level that should exist when it comes to such large money and such an important area as education. The club of representatives of the Croatian People's Party will, of course, support this law but it would be good if in the future when it comes to laws like this, such big money and such important projects of the ministry came before the Croatian Assembly with much better prepared programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53100	Thank you, dear colleague. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Roksandić. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to correct two incorrect allegations from an esteemed colleague, Radosh. Namely, I have to say before that, after his debate, those who listen will think that we really have nothing in the education system. My colleague Radosh said we haven't developed teaching as a system. Well, we have a colleague, Rados, we've had an education agency that's been taking care of the teacher's training, and now we've got that far more developed. Here, these days in December will be held the second cycle of professional training of directors, professional associates of those schools which 49 accepted KNOS. This cycle continues in 2006. It will also include other schools that should accept KNOS in 2006. Second, you said we didn't have a textbook. We've got textbooks, we've just passed the law, we know why. We want to improve the quality of our textbooks and introduce order on the textbook market. So we have textbooks. This way, if someone listened to us on the side, they'd say we had almost nothing in education.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53102	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. It is next on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go, buddy! A colleague, Doric, is registered individually. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53103	My colleague hurt Rule 209 because she didn't correct my incorrect allegations that were allegedly incorrect because she didn't say anything, challenged what I said. She said I said there was no textbook. That's not what I said, pal. I said there is no Croatian national educational standard that is a prerequisite for making real textbooks. Therefore, there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53104	My colleague, I haven't seen a shift happen between the president and the vice president, but if you did report a correction to an incorrect quote, I don't mind if you correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53105	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, here's a fellow representative, Radosh, said he made two incorrect allegations. First, the average salary in education with teachers is 4,000 kuna for higher and high-preparation and that is exclusively in that segment, however, I argue that it is not true. These salaries can be said to be small, but also in other segments of the state administration mainly about police, customs higher and high-preparation especially if not field has an equal average salary. Another inaccuracy is that these funds will be used for decentralisation and that centralised is done by selecting the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government. This is simply not true because decentralisation is the relationship between the central state authorities and local authorities, therefore the very fact that the representative body of the local unit chooses this school board has not reached any centralised... [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53106	Thank you very much. We're going back to work. Respected, re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53107	Again, my colleague Lovrin injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 209 because she did not correct the incorrect allegations. The average teacher's salary is really the lowest wage for employees and in the state administration with high and higher school supplies because they don't actually have the opportunity to advance. Even in state services, officials have the possibility of progress so that the salary with high and higher volume is on average more than it is in primary and high school and you can't dispute it, and decentralisation is also a blame for Mrs. Lovrin's thesis. Namely, if you've raised some of the school's powers to a higher level, the level of units of local self-government, then you've automatically gone towards centralised. By the way, be told by the law we're talking about, and the minister's got more power than he had before. It is therefore a real example of Mrs Lovrin's centralization, Mrs Lovrin. So what you're saying is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53108	Time, I must say, wasn't an injured article in 209 for a simple reason. A colleague of yours stated in the basic statement her objections in the opinion that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure and you are now in a new announcement, in order to correct the incorrect allegations you were in violation of the Rules of Procedure on her claims going with your claims. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. My colleagues, Lovrin, were you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53109	.../The speaker doesn't understand./...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53110	Okay, thank you very much for your help. Don't use the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure when it's not. My colleague Pesic-Bukovac. Here's your esteemed co-worker. On behalf of the Club and the IDS agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Secretary of State. At the very beginning, I must say that IDS will support this proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of projects for development of the education and education system. Although I must stress that this is a new borrowing, and we are aware that our school is crying out for money because it is missing in all segments, even if this money serves to unblock many school accounts. Speaking of borrowing, I'd like to remind you that this is the borrowing of the central government, and, of course, to the harm of local self-government units. Some people may not receive a written reply throughout the year from the Ministry of Finance on consent or refusal to issue ammunition bonds, and here the state is in charge of the new EUR 67.8 million. The municipalities, cities, counties, and in the future they will not get the consent to borrowing but will all have to go to the central authorities again, of course, to somehow get the money. We were in charge of the social last week. Now we're in charge of school. It just shows us what the most important segments of society are. How can it justify the government's borrowing to finance projects for development of education and education systems instead of in charge of developing projects of decentralisation of education but of course in the right way, and not just in the way of decentralised functions where cities and counties are given the importance of just being the mere transmission of money from the state. It would be much better to decentralize schooling because schools are truly cared for by the best cities and counties. They've shown that they're better masters than the Far Ministry. I'm sure it wouldn't have happened then if school neglect had left them without enough educators, psychologists, logos. It is certain that due to the ministry's negligence at the moment, a large number of schools in Croatia have been blocked. It is certain that underpaid teachers work in schools, that schools are not renewed, are not maintained in an adequate way, are not built sports halls. The way and number of members of the Governing Council, the selection of directors, the publishing of textbooks are certainly topics that we will have to discuss and resolve at some time because then the system of education would work. Quality reform, i.e. adequate decentralisation of education, should be implemented. I urge that the next education assignment be indeed for decentralization projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53112	Thank you, dear colleague. We don't have any more club reports. The first in line for an individual debate is a respected colleague, Doric. Here's your colleague, Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53113	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the only reason I picked up the phone was because I was uncomfortable surprised by what I heard earlier that there were only two reported. That really makes me sad. We have been full for two days with hundreds of replicas and corrections of incorrect allegations, with dozens and dozens of discussions about the Croatian Radio-Television programme, and about our primary and secondary schools programmes, how to improve them, how to help students, their parents, our society in general there is no one to say a word. The worst part is, three months ago, we had a rebalance on the State budget. On that rebalancing, if you have been a little more detailed in the past items just related to primary and secondary education, then you could see that unfortunately many items are not realised at all by any single percentage, let alone by 50%, which should have been after 6 months. With the training of staff, textbooks, library equipment, these are the painful points that we needed to discuss much more at the time and today much more talk about, so I am very pleased with this loan and I hope it will be really used in the right way because our mouths are full of colleagues and colleagues from Bollogne and higher education reforms. I'm telling you that none of Bologna can be unless the Bologne prepares a good foundation in primary and secondary education. Nothing without that solid foundation. I'm about a month and a half ago because my colleague Pupovac couldn't go and replace a colleague on a Central European initiative that just had a theme on "Medical Education Reform in Europe". And then the Slovaks showed us what they were doing, what they were doing, and how they were preparing a good foundation for Bologna. They singled out 100,000 euros for education four years ago, perfecting primary and secondary school teachers. They saw that it was small, so they significantly increased it, so year after that they increased even more so that last year they would come to 8m euros just to perfect teachers from high and elementary schools. Teachers go through five years of cycles and what happens to a teacher who does not successfully complete this cycle of very serious improvement. She's getting her co-workers and her co-workers fired. The Slovaks believe that those who are incompetent, who do not go through the program, who are not perfect, do not have the right to educate their children. They're getting fired. We've got nothing to say here, no one's answering, no one's arguing. Clearly, what parents and children can be rather than revolutionized by our attitude and by our education, respectively. That's the only reason I called. And I'm only going to add one more sentence. When I spoke to these same colleagues of the Slovaks and asked them how they connected the registration policy with what their economy needed, I was then very pleasantly surprised. They told me, you know, my colleague, we here when a serious investor comes, we take every serious investor in Slovakia the following way. It's across the street from the minister, the mayor, the mayor. The minister interprets the investor with all the legal basis for good investment in Slovakia. The mayor says under us is a schooling, we gentlemen will provide you with all those profiles and all those years during your work in our country if you invest in this and that industry. And that's how the mayor promises infrastructure, water, roads power everything. So that's how Slovakia works, takes people out of the world, and it's no wonder that they have "Kia", "Pegeot" and all the world's industry, that unemployment is gone. And we're where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53114	Thank you, colleague Doric. We don't have any more charges to argue on this point. Since the proposer's representative has given up the closing statement, I am concluding the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53115	It's not good to go to the same river twice. Let's get involved to determine the quorum. The result? 104, we've got quorum, so let's go. First, please pay attention. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the development project of the system of education and education. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimity with 115 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53116	And we move to the next point, which is - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and part of members of the Croatian Administration... I've concluded the debate, but if you will, you insist, thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We therefore move to - Proposal for a Decision appointing the president and part of the members of the Board of the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency The proposal for a Decision was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate for, on behalf of the clubs no one checked in. Does anyone want to discuss it individually? No, I don't. I'll close the discussion then.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53117	Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and part of a member of the management of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 83 votes for, 25 abstentions and 5 against a decision on the appointment of presidents and part of members of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53118	And we move on to the next two points, if of course no one is opposed. And the proposal is actually this, that we have a united discussion about - Final proposal of the Law on humanitarian demining - Final proposal of the Law on Special Rights in Pension Insurance of Employees in Mine Action These are two related topics. No one objects to the unification of the debate. Thank you very much. Both proposals were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The hearing was conducted by the competent working bodies. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go. Deputy Minister, State Secretary of the Interior Mr Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53119	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. Just for a little while. In addition to you, the Final Proposal for the Law on humanitarian demining is that this sensitive matter for Croatia, since in Croatia there is still a number of areas inescapable in one systematic way, in a way that solves the very activities of demining, rights, obligations of participants in this very important procedure for the Republic of Croatia and the material, working-legal social status of pyrotechnicians and other persons involved in mining. We believe that this law as proposed will really be a good basis for quality continuation of this very responsible job. That, on the basis of him and the rights provided for by this law and the Law on Special Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees in Mine Action and Demining Jobs, or pyrotechnicians will be more motivated by the fact that they have been given certain security in the event of a loss. It is introduced that we believe and believe that these two laws will really contribute to a faster and better continuation and completion of this job of exceptional interest and importance to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53120	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, President of the Committee, esteemed colleague Ivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53121	Dear Mr Vice-President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at its 56th session accepted the proposal of this law and fully supported it in the Croatian Parliament in the text as suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53122	Thank you, fellow Jarnjak. There's no one else on behalf of the working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line are representatives' clubs. On behalf of the HSP club, dear colleague Kovacevic. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, state and secretary. Well, first of all, on behalf of the pyrotechnicians and the Croatian party club, I am pleased that these two important laws finally appeared on the agenda and these sessions of the Parliament. And we know for ourselves what a huge number of problems are already piled up about pyrotechnics, because they've been waiting for these two laws for seven years. For seven years, they've been waiting for these two laws and finally getting rid of their status and other important issues. What was the situation? You yourself know that we and the Croatian Party Club had to support the pyrotechnics in two protest meetings in order for the government to fulfill its legal promise, i.e. these two laws will be held at this assembly session and that we will address this problem in the final year. And the problem best tells you about the fact that in general in the classification of occupation, the nomenclature has no interest in pyrotechnics in general, and we know that these teams have been dealing with affairs since '92. A year. So the HSP club will support both law and law, with an amendment to Article 36(1). In particular, this is a special one, an insurance position in an increased duration where pyrotechnicians are proposed to have an insurance internship of 16 months for each year, and we have submitted an amendment because of the fact that in the Regulation establishing the duties of active military personnel in which the insurance internship is calculated with an increased duration and method of calculating it, Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Otherwise, the regulation was published in the 2003 "National Journal" of 42, said that for active military personnel engaged in the work of pyrotechnicians every 12 months is accounted for as 18 months by an insurance company in the post. We therefore expect this amendment to be accepted and that we will be able to send the best Christmas and New Year's greeting to pyrotechnics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53124	Thank you, dear colleague Kovacevic. On behalf of the IDS club, dear colleague Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53125	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Buconjic, Secretary of State, Honorable Mr. Representatives. Here we are facing these two final proposals for a law on special rights in the pension insurance of employees in demining operations that are extremely important, but certainly nothing more important than this final proposal of the Law on humanitarian demining. I certainly don't want to say that just don't say it figuratively, a crazy man can deal with demining. So if I say such a definition or I don't know such a premise, I'm convinced that even pyrotechnics won't mind it, because they know by that idea that I think that this job can only be done by crazy, bold people, and by no means mind. So exactly the opposite of that I want to say how difficult it is, how uncertain it is, how responsible and, above all, insanely brave work it is. It is said here in Article 2 of the final draft of the law that the employees of Article 1 of this Act are entitled to an age pension regardless of the years of life if they have completed at least 30 years of retirement training of which at least 10 years are actually carried out on search, demining, surveillance or technical reconnaissance operations in a trade company in craftsmen, in the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior or the Croatian Mine Action Centre. So in one word these people were allowed to go to so-called. Preferred pension. On page 2 of the arguments are given among other things, which are preferential pensions in the Republic of Croatia. I think we know that, but we need to repeat how they say here, in the right place again, they put parliamentary representatives, although not parliamentary representatives, it is a mistake, but there are also members of the Constitutional Court, the Government, etc. But, well, let them treat us that way. There are former political prisoners, employees at certain jobs at the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence. Then there are Croatian defenders, some categories of pensioners whose pension payment the Republic of Croatia took over from the former state, meaning participants in the People's Liberation War, are mentioned here by the Labin miners as well as military persons in the so-called Presidential pensions granted to them by the President of the Republic of Croatia. They've forgotten, say, the so-called participants. Home Army from 41 to 45. Total when we're talking about people who are in what's-his-name. They're over $170,000. What bothers me personally is to say about parliamentary representatives, not to mention the president of the state, or the presidents of the state, government, ministers, judges of the Constitutional Court, etc. Again, even after this proposal, the law will probably only be called by parliamentary representatives of those who are far superior to us and ministers or editors of Croatian Radio Television, the judges of the Constitutional Court, the President of the State, etc. Page 3 is said of the following, it should certainly be cited, that currently in the Republic of Croatia, 600 pyrotechnicians have the power to carry out demining operations, however, I note that this will explain that most pyrotechnicians will, since it is so-called. To a younger population who has not completed 30 years of retirement training, meet the conditions of pension insurance only in the years to come since 2010. However, what do I want to especially highlight this occasion and absolutely support this legislative proposal? This is a similar category of people who have done "similar" jobs under quotes, and these are Labin miners who also have similar or identical status and also use this category of 170 thousand people under quotes "privileged" pensions, which has been resolved in their time about 200-th of the miners "Tupljak" from Labin, was solved there somewhere in 97 or 98, and I claim that this is the biggest thing that the Government of Mr. Matesha has solved for the maze in these really difficult moments when more than half of the city's economy simply broke down. I want to say once again that we at the IDS club absolutely support this law. We are in IDS absolutely slid with pyrotechnics because if even one job in this country under quotes "I wouldn't do" then it's theirs. Everyone in life as the proverb says "can be wrong multiple times", but only these people working on demining jobs can make a mistake once, and so I think it's time for these people to sort of get together. As far as the Law on humanitarian demining is concerned, there are several interesting articles here to be read, regardless of what else this debate is no longer followed in 6,40, which is primarily an insurance internship in the increased duration of accounts to pyrotechnicians who directly perform general reconnaissance, technical copy, etc. Then there is an interesting article in 39. these are the rights of pyrotechnics and equalized persons with the basis of disability and death, meaning these groups are mentioned, and the damage to the organism within the meaning of this law is considered damage as a result of the wounds or injuries caused by the operations of search, demining, surveillance, technical and general reconnaissance and now that I do not mention these categories that are equal to the members of the Homeland War, there is certainly an interesting article 49. and these are the rights of family members after the death of pyrotechnicians and of their children and on a scholarship and an advantage in the conduct of these jobs and these tragedies occur, and then those persons have the right to both a family pension and a family disability and an advantage in enrolment of education institutions of their children and on scholarships, i.e.e.e. A craftsman or CROMAC shall be obliged to provide employees of pyrotechnicians, auxiliary staff, etc. in the event of death at least 400,000 kunas or injuries caused by the operation of humanitarian demining in the amount of at least 600 thousand kuna. In one word, here we come in some way what we have always advocated for this speaker, that these people who deal with humanitarian demining are being equated in some way with the defenders of the Homeland War. That's certainly something positive, that's what should be commended, that's what needs to be supported for sure and what needs to be welcomed to go in that direction and those categories of people that I'm going to say once more that they're dealing with one insanely brave job in the interest of each of us individually. There is so much that one and another legal proposal from the IDS club will support and we thank the competent ministry in some way for the courage and to say the political impudence to refer this legislative proposal to the parliamentary procedure and to remove this problem once again from the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53126	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, in one case, you are wrong not to follow this debate. The MPs are very closely following this debate, even noticing that you said both an incorrect quote and want to correct it. Dear colleague Djakic has his word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Cain, where he claimed that the population of people who deal with demining is a madly brave population of people. It's actually offensive to them because these populations are highly trained with maximum medical records and maximum psychologically stable people who can... Oh, let me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I wasn't interrupting. In fact, you insulted that population by calling them crazy brave people. With all the praises you've given, you've made one such guff. These are highly qualified people with maximum mental concentration and common sense who use them to be maximum concentration on what they do. Because like you said, only one mistake carries life forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53128	Thank you very much, colleague Djakic. Although you have corrected the incorrect assumption, I must say that I have estimated that my colleague Cain has offended this population, I would certainly have told him the envisaged measure in the Rules of Procedure. But he immediately said, in a figurative sense. So, he tried to compare in a positive sense that courage in which part of it applies, and that's why I didn't say these measures, and I leave you the right to correct the incorrect assumption if you understood it that way. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Ledinsky. Here you go, Comrade Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53129	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me introduce on behalf of the Croatian Peasants' Party club, and I say that the HSS Club will support both of these proposed laws. And this special pension insurance rights, as well as humanitarian demining. Why, first of all, are we going to give support to these laws? First of all, we believe that it is necessary to introduce even clearer and more precise provisions in this problem, and we think that these proposals of the law are made possible, and to enable, above all, certain rights to those who are engaged in these affairs to be as high and better. And what is the importance of that job itself, I think, is that maybe a few words about it should be said, since we all face this problem today. Some in their jobs. Here, I can say at my place of work that I have worked for and during my time in the Croatian Army, and also later in the county and in the Croatian forests, that I have constantly encountered this problem and tried to find ways to reduce mines in Croatia as quickly and simply as possible. There I would certainly like to support those activities that are working today and the previous and current Government with the Croatian Mine Action Centre related to the reduction of suspected mine surface by reconnaissance of these surfaces. And in that part of it, I think there's been a lot of significant results, but what I've been feeling lately is that we're getting a little low on the job. The goal was to bring this mine danger down to practically zero by 2009, and unfortunately now we have to realize that this will not be possible. And that's why it's my appeal to all of us to get as involved as possible and try those priorities that the state has given itself, as soon as possible. Whether they will be by 2010 or later, but in any case we must work on them every year. What I can understand at these priorities is that today's priority is tourism areas, coastal areas, etc., but as a man coming from a forest dam, I cannot accept that to 16% of the state area, 50% of the budget is allocated to reduce the mine area. In that part, I think we should take care of the rest. I understand that this is important for tourism, but I also ask everyone else to understand that the forests are also national wealth and that they need to demining these areas, and that there should also be seen that people who work today are also in forestry, and that I also speak for others, burdened that every day they can come across to solve their basic mine duties and come across. There are also cases that they died during their regular work. And I don't think it's a good thing that at least that part of the budget then we're dividing the vast majority of these funds into 16% of the suspicious surface, and for the rest of that suspicious surface, those funds aren't being allocated. It's my appeal to the rest of the ministry, as well as to everyone who did. Because simply if we're just going to do it that way, then it turns out that some areas are less important, less important, and I think that, as far as the tourist part is concerned, we've decided that the coast and everything else is practically solved. So what it is, the closer the interior is now being solved. Until that interior of ours here in these areas that have been and occupied is resolved. And in that part, it's my appeal to try, to spend evenly on budgets all over the country, so if it's not 2009 it might be 2015. That way, not to say, Mr. Secretary of State is from Baranja. I've been to Baranja and there we still have a lot of surfaces that are not available for the economy, not to mention tourism. Even the Kopački ass that's a park of nature, etc. Therefore, we must take care of all areas throughout the country. I know it's not easy for our counties to allocate most of the funds because their budgets are thin. Here, I remember the time when I was mayor of Bjelovar that we made the first demining plan for the county. And I can say that now these counties are practically one of the first to be demined completely or I think it's almost over, or to the end. So if it starts with some kind of systematic work and it's possible to do something over a number of years to isolate some of the funds. Also, while I was working in the Croatian forests on these jobs, I have to say that the state-owned enterprises also set out Croatian forests among them with significant resources and each year they increase them. Here, this year it seems to me to be some 16 million kuna being used, so, to demining those surfaces. Although this is not a direct obligation, but the importance that is given and that part of the funds is allocated from their own resources and for that purpose, in order to free those surfaces. And to get to Croatia without mines as soon as possible. In that part, I think it will be necessary in the coming days that all state-owned companies continue to allocate even greater and more significant resources to get there as soon as possible, but also that everyone in that section is in charge, so to speak, from the mayors of municipalities, mayors and others, to participate. And my appeal is that as many of these funds as possible are collected in various ways and that there is a complete goal that is not set for us to say after 2010 that we will end the demining of Croatia. Or at least that we can say in that time that we've reduced these reconnaissances and that suspicious surface to some appropriate conditions. Because we know today that we still have in some countries from World War II a mined surface and we know that this job is practically, not to say, impossible to spend all the way. But at least then, in the part where an economic effect is possible, it is expected that at least the possibility can be managed normally in most parts of the area. I especially say here as a man who is a forest profession I know that the forests are on the list of priorities and that it will not be possible to expect them to be fully brought into a position to be clear from mines, but my appeal to everyone and from this place from this pay phone to try and that part especially in those protected areas that they are to allow us to get to the point when we can say that this danger is reduced to a minimum measure. As for the rights of people who participate in demining, I think it's good to say that these people should be allowed the rights that are proposed here, I tried to read them in detail, I think that they are now bigger than they were before, and especially because we have a practical case that a lot of our defenders who, after the war ended, have found themselves without a job, have decided on this job, and this job is extremely dangerous and should provide them with adequate rights with grounds if they have become disabled, and so are their families in case what can happen the most tragic thing that can happen, and that is death in the performance of these works itself, as well as insurance and others. That's what I'd like to conclude. The HSS Club will support the proposals of this Act and will support the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53130	Thank you, dear fellow Ledinsky. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is the esteemed fellow Stazic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Both of these laws are both necessary and good, but what is the relationship to these laws we see in this assembly. Now, at the moment we are discussing these laws, there are more opposition representatives than HDZ representatives, and the HDZ club has not even found the necessary evidence of these two bill proposals. You've had two days of patience and nerve to be here in full composition, and you're mortifying the leadership of HRT, and now when it comes to such important laws, you're gone about pyrotechnics, there's two, four, six of you here. 6 of you are tomorrow when on HRT, when they tell you, when they do not show you the way you want to be seen but the way you are, then you will attack the leadership of the HRT again, so that it does not show you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53132	Get to the subject of your colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53133	How long have you been waiting for these laws? The pyrotechnicians had to extort them by strike, by strike, here's your relationship to their strike, your presence here. Croatia is under mines, should be demined by 2010. It will hardly be with your relationship with the pyrotechnician and the problem, difficult. How does the Government treat your mine problem? When a recent International Conference was organised, the government did not even have the money to organise it. They had to look for sponsors. Was the government looking for them? It's not. Why does the government care about the International Conference? The organisers themselves, volunteers, had to look for sponsors for the International Conference, according to their acquaintances. And what was the most important thing to you? What was most important to you at this International Conference? Not the praise Croatia received as a state at the International Conference, not that, not the commitment of those who organised the International Conference, not their enthusiasm, no. None of this mattered to you, it was only important to place a lie, a lie to print a poster from the Croatian budget that was the official poster of the Conference, or to print money from taxpayers, from the Croatian budget, nor was it the official poster of the Conference, but why did you need that lie? In order not to have to admit the success of others, the success of others who work hard for Croatia, who are also fighting in international frameworks, that this Croatia is lost as soon as possible, who find the money for it, who organizes friends around the world to help us, instead of commending them, instead of supporting them only because you knew how to slander them, defamation and insult them. She's manipulating everything. Here we witnessed today when HDZ loses the defence attorney's trust because of its action plan, then there's an accusation of HRT's editors and journalists not taking enough care of the defenders. Yes, when faced with the loss of citizens' trust, then direct the justified anger of defenders towards yourself to HRT. It's your stunts, it's your range. When you fail to organise the International Mines Conference, then as now, Mr. Djakic shows posters that participants have brought as their posters at the International Conference because you are unable to do anything else. So, when the problem of pyrotechnics fails to solve, and it does not work out in time or in the way that the pyrotechnics have long demanded and even extorted the strike, then do what Mr. Djakic is doing now, but the pyrotechnics know how you take care of them and what you do and how you are. Well, the defense attorneys will know that after this two-day debate of yours, when you've crushed the leadership of the HRT. It's you, so when they show you on TV, don't be mad at them anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53134	Thank you, dear fellow Stazic. We are going to correct incorrect allegations first, a respected colleague, Djakic, has the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53135	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of the Stazic who is so bloodthirsty about the club's position. The club has discussed and is ready to welcome the vote on this Act so that you do not have to worry, has agreed with CROMAC and with demining companies and their members and there is no need to expand the debate and we are wasting time when we know what people are expecting and what they are looking for and what will satisfy them with this Law. So do not worry about them or honor what they say is a lie. You keep lying even though you can see that this is an insult to Croatian defenders, this where Republika Srpska, Banja Luka, is where the Chetniks are in a picture where they don't belong at any of the International Conferences held in Zagreb. Aren't you ashamed to say I'm lying? Look.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53136	Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the quote on the number of HDZ representatives present at this point. The fellow Stazic is obviously a good actor, but his count count, we were at that point 6 plus 1, so 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53138	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague of the Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53139	Mr. Vice President, when any of us talks about himself most, not what he's talking about. And so this total incorrect exposure is based on hate and I don't know what other feelings, certainly not positive ones, I'm amazed so I can't fix everything and I can't get there but what's all that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53140	But you have to fix at least one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53141	You've made a lie out of it. So I'm correcting that assumption that we've placed a lie. No, I personally don't feel any of this projection of his gropes about having my picture looked at on TV with some kind of distortion. So, I refuse by disgusting everything Mr. Stazic said and at least he said about what the subject is of this which is demining and these are the problems of those who do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53142	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53143	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that there is an action, our action plan for television. But I'm sure there's your action plan for television to preserve acquired positions on HRT in which your colleague Stazić is you, in which you play a self-loving star whose rhetoric is full of manipulation with absolute amateur acting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53144	Correction of the inaccuracy of my colleague Pleša. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53145	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Stazic is in the spirit of very good artists, high-quality artists of drama theatres, but I would have righted two things from practically the whole speech that was, in my opinion, very distorted. First of all, we're the ones who mumbled those radio-television representatives. That's completely incorrect. We discussed Croatian radio television all day yesterday and today, about all those failures and mistakes that were made there. Another thing I would like to say from Mr. Stazic's debate that the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Democratic Community has prepared this law in a way that we are all satisfied and primarily means people who deal with demining and that in this way, it means that it is not only enough to carry out the thematic debate but to well prepare laws that will help those people who do so well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53146	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. Dear colleague Nenadic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53147	Dear Mr. Vice President, since colleagues have said through the corrections of incorrect allegations what I thought through the replica I'm giving up on the replica and I understand Mr. Stazic, he's been silent for two days, he needs to blow off a little bit now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53148	Yeah, well, I've got an unusual situation right now. You gave up the replica, but your colleague Stazic did not give up the reply to the replica you applied for. We didn't have a case like that in the Rules of Procedure, but I have to give the word. Here you go, fellow Stazic! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53149	No, he has a basis for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53150	Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, the representative has the right to the replica and you have the right to do so. Please, dear colleagues. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The representative has the right to reply and has the right to when, as a colleague Nenadic did, give up the replica to explain why he gave up. A colleague explained it, and there he made a mistake why he was giving up his replica. That part has the right to answer the one to whom it was replicated. Please, I strictly respect the rules of procedure and try to respect them all. Here you go, fellow Stazic!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53151	Dear counterpart Nenadic said he would not replicate because he fully supports everything that has been said so far in the corrections of incorrect allegations. Therefore, it is the contents of his replica, supporting what was said until then. And it was said there weren't six but seven. To God, whether you are six or seven, you are giving in relation to the size of your club a very clear message as to how much you care about this topic. You said the club said its own. Where did he say? Where did the club say that? You haven't discussed this at all. The fact that you guys at the club possibly talked about it is still forgive your inside party thing. Here in front of the public, in front of the pyrotechnics, in front of the people who live near the minefields, you haven't said a word because you're not interested in this topic at all. Of course, you want to know what you look like on HRT, which is why you've been talking about it for two days. And third, that we may be ashamed. We are not ashamed when we organise international conferences, we are not ashamed when these international conferences celebrate Croatia, where Croatia boasts for its efforts, we are not ashamed. Shame can be those who call us because of what we're doing and who haven't even shown up there.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53152	Just a brief correction. The SDP did not organise this international conference but the competent ministries, and in this respect the correction of the incorrect allegations is not only about your claim but also about the behaviour of the competent ministry. Replica Col. Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53153	Well, I want to make it very clear to my colleague that one of the reasons why we're dealing with the problem of pyrotechnics so late, why we're solving them after their strikes is not enough funds. Insufficient funds for the simple reason that all demining costs at this time or most of these costs fall on the burden of taxpayers and taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. All of what we once had and it's a significant international aid we don't have anymore or less. We have no simple reason to stop dealing with the fact that we are very clearly trying to say that an evil such as mines cannot be solved only by a Croatian citizen, we cannot solve only ourselves, but we simply need international help. And precisely because we don't have enough responsibility for this problem, there are problems like this, and these problems are delayed suggestions, suggestions that are a good result and dissatisfaction for those who lose and their health and their lives on such jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53154	Thank you very much. My colleagues, we've got two more deputies on behalf of the club in ten minutes and one on behalf of five minutes, and we'll finish this agenda and then we'll stop working until tomorrow. It's time for a respected colleague, Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! No matter what time it is, I just need a few sentences to look back on these two laws. And right away at the beginning, let me say that I support absolutely their adoption because I think these are laws that deserve our full attention and attention. As I recall, and during the first reading of these laws, the situation in the assembly was about as similar as tonight. We also discussed it at some late hours. What that means, and what conclusions I can draw from that I would not personally conclude, let each one conclude for himself. I believe that the adoption of these laws is very important because the fact is unfortunately, we are very often through the media and in the reality of witnesses, that even after the end of the Homeland War the people of the Republic of Croatia are not finished. As a result of war operations in war-torn areas, large quantities of mines and various explosive devices have lagged behind. Unfortunately, accidents often occur in these areas, often with fatal consequences. To successfully rebuild and build Croatia further for the return of exiles to their homes and, of course, for the safety of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to assume that the tasks of full and systematic demining of the entire war of the affected area are successfully carried out. In the end, it is said in Article 2 of this Law that humanitarian demining is a matter of interest in the safety of the Republic of Croatia and in the protection of the environment and human health. The passing of this law will certainly correct injustice against people who put their lives in danger from day to day to ensure a safe life especially in areas that have suffered war destruction. This Law will solve this problem in a systematic and complete way. I'd look back on maybe just two things in the law. First of all, I would also like to support my colleague Kovacevic, who is on behalf of the HSP Club, referred to Article 36, where it is mentioned about the insurance internship in the increased duration, and it is said to count 16 months for each year. And I also think that these 16 months should be replaced by 18. It means that 18 months counts as well as the pyrotechnics do, in the MUP and in the military, because let's not make one mistake correcting these people by making another mistake. And just one more comment or perhaps a better question to the secretary of state. In this Law, when it comes to the rights of pyrotechnicians and their equalized persons from the basis of disability and death, I am interested in whether these rights are listed exactly all categories of disability and so on, whether, and then further said that "the procedure and determination of the height of disability pension will be carried out in the manner prescribed in Articles 7, 8 and 11. The law on pension insurance rights of personnel, police officers and authorised officials." I'm glad they're in the same category as each other in some way, but I'm just curious about whether it applies to professional diseases because we know what these jobs are like, and we know how often these people do physical positions, or more or less, work, so that there are often different professional diseases like spinal damages, and so on, which certainly affects their continued working ability. That's on my side, only those two comments were on this bill. Finally, I would say that the adoption of this Law will certainly be the best New Year's present to all those who act in this difficult and responsible duty and the best way to give them all thanks for all that they have done so far and for what they continue to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53156	Thank you very much. Tomorrow we'll continue the debate here where we left off and after the railroad, the railroad law. We're breaking up for now. We'll be back at 9:30 tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53157	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and debate on the final proposal of the Law on humanitarian demining and the Law on Special Rights in Pension Insurance of Employees in Mine Action. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53158	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! It's my opinion that these are good bill proposals and that they should be accepted. Last night when it came to this profession, a lot has already been said, it may indeed be a sort of job, a profession, perhaps the hardest. I don't know, there are probably other jobs that don't come to mind right now, but really people who, in one day, are a few times in a situation where they can die while they're working, it's really hard to compare that kind of work with any other job, and unfortunately, death cases happen. Unfortunately, the problem of mines and demining is a problem that arises not only in Croatia and in Croatia as a country that has left the war is certainly even more present, so such a kind of job and such a kind of problem that we should also show special sensitivity to the people who do the job. What I would suggest is exactly in this section when it comes to pension. It offered 30 years of internships and ten years of demining jobs. These days, we are also MPs and all together, regardless of party belongings, we have been fairly exposed and are otherwise exposed to public criticism, etc. about true or godly privileges, I wouldn't be getting into that problem right now. But it takes 20 years for one of us to retire, 55 years for life and one term for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and that counts for two years and one day. So I would suggest that at least in this section how many years of internships it takes in demining operations those people who are dealing with this extremely and dramatically dangerous job and which is extremely humane, perhaps one of the most humane jobs to even themselves after years of training that they need to retire to the parliamentary representatives so that it takes a number of years of internships to be 20 years of internship because the fact that ten years of work on demining jobs may be enough to accept this logic of thinking, so more than one good part of these people has come out of war, relatively young and working on these jobs perhaps in one transferred sense faster than others. Because, if you're dealing with it, no matter what they're doing, I'm just suggesting that the benefit be greater than the years of internship they need with ten years of work on demining jobs and that they get even with the MPs. That was the essence of what I was talking about. I repeat, the one who repeatedly exposes himself to a situation that can be and deadly has earned one particular attention without reducing the hard work that many of our fellow citizens are doing, starting with the police, so I don't know who else is also at risk, possibly in these most radical forms. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53159	Thank you very much. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic for five minutes discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53160	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! First of all, there is now President Shakespeare. Mr. President, pyrotechnicians and the HSP Club thank you for putting these bill proposals on the agenda immediately, because we ourselves know seven years of pyrotechnicians have been waiting for these two laws, seven years. So, for both the former governments and these governments, seven years are waiting and it's about the Croatian defenders, it's about those who created this country and for seven years they haven't been able to solve their problems and there are only about 630 pyrotechnics. Today they are headed according to the nomenclature and classification of occupations as forest workers or various other professions. The fact itself speaks of the relationship of the Croatian state, the government of one and the other to the pyrotechnicians. They had lost hope and faith that this problem would be solved as promises from the government were made and nothing would have been done if there hadn't been these protests in Mark's square. They wouldn't do anything about Mungos or anything else. When they lost their will, they came to us at the Croatian Party of Rights Club and then we went all the way because we had to force the government to stick to its promises. Then the game began in the government whether it was the Deputy Prime Minister or Minister Kirin, and it proved what the minister himself said that someone in the drawer had kept the laws. Therefore, this only points to the fact that the government must behave responsibly and that we must be the ones who will protect the interests of Croatian citizens, in this case Croatian defenders and pyrotechnicians and take democratic measures to force the government to do its part of the job. And this is now the best and Christmas card and the best New Year's card to all pyrotechnicians, and I think this is the way to work, and we need to put pressure on the government to solve all these problems. You yourself know what the situation is about the demining area in Croatia, what the current situation is. We can see for ourselves just how many pyrotechnics have died so far, how many pyrotechnics were wounded in the performance of their duties, how many civilians died in the areas. Or were not marked minefields of pyrotechnics wounded in carrying out their duties. How many civilians died in areas or no minefields were marked or marked as mined, someone removed it. Therefore, we must also make sure that we have much work to do in this area and that we must give full support to those who are in danger each day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53161	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53162	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to correct an incorrect quote by Mr. Kovačić when he said, I would not have any of this Law if there were no protests in the square. No, Mr. Kovacevic, the government had a program and secured the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53163	Please, peace. And another respected representative, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53164	It's in that section so there wouldn't be anything if there wasn't a protest in Mark's square. But why did you HSP gentlemen vote for the ban on public gathering...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53165	Mr. Cain, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, this other one. HDZ club, respected representative Josip Djakic, five minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53166	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the final draft law on humanitarian demining as well as pension insurance rights belonging to demining pyrotechnicians are clearly defined by these drafts of the Law, and I do not think that those who claim that there was no protest that this Law would not be an emergency procedure. It's my opinion that harmonising the views of all the Sands and all the organizations is. and the craftsman who deals with pyrotechnic work has come to this kind of law that we see will most likely support all clubs and that eventually all will be satisfied with this way of resolution and pension rights as well as the rights and definitions defined by this Law on humanitarian demining. I can say that humanitarian demining and demining alone in the Republic of Croatia began in 92 years already through the Croatian military, through units that, the special units of the MUP and the national protection specialising in such matters, followed by a state-owned company and then given the opportunity for private companies and companies to engage in this call, this one of the most dangerous crafts where maximum concentration is needed where the health of the spirit and the concentration of the psyche is one of the essential conditions for man to be focused on what he does. And we believe that in all these suggestions that we do not repeat them and read them, that we are not wasting time because, by passing this law, they will all be truly satisfied but there are also those who say that more demining funds will be needed because they will increase and pay for the benefits and for these pension rights that follow from this Law. Therefore, I can say that the Croatian Democratic Community club unreservedly supports such bill proposals, that it shows in particular all the necessary conditions for people working on humanitarian demining to have security in not allowing God to suffer and that the family of the same verse should be leveled with the rights of Croatian defenders and police officers, as well as civil servants and subsistence in the MORH and the MUP. So I hope that, as you have declared there will be no problem with this Law and its adoption, but Mr Kovacevic, I further believe he wants to adopt that only by protest can laws be passed and that his role in this... In fact, it doesn't stand, and I don't think by talking to Minister Kirin about passing these laws, about putting him in a drawer, he said that it's false, it's highly false that he's often talked to the unions and negotiated all the shades of these legal decrees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53167	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53168	I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague in the first place that the minister said the law wasn't in the drawer. He said I was with the pyrotechnics when he said he was apologizing and that the law was in the drawer and that someone would answer for it. And what was the situation if he didn't want them to be accepted by the pyrotechnics and trade unions or the vice-president of the government or anyone from the government, and then Tonci Tadic and I went and thanks to you today there is the Law. So we don't want to adopt anything, we just want to say how you can do the job and force the government to do your job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53169	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53170	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must say that I am really pleased with the debate yesterday and today on the Proposal for this Law because it is obvious that a consensus has been reached by all parties and MPs who participated in the debate that this is a good, quality law, that it was necessary to pass such a law and that this law will certainly be a step further and a step forward in regulating this extremely important matter for the Republic of Croatia. I would only comment if this wasn't an extorted law. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and individual members held talks with both trade unions and the GSV, as part of the GSV on solutions that would be acceptable to all participants in this process. In fact, this is a complex law that must certainly take care of other laws and in the pension, disability insurance system, especially the Insurance Train Act with increased duration and other laws that regulate this sensitive matter. The government has tried to ensure maximum within other legal solutions and within the available financial resources that can be allocated for this, as I said, extremely important activity. Since this is a very dangerous occupation, since this profession is also extremely humane, as workers are pyrotechnicists who participate in demining really exposed to extreme psychophysical efforts, it was necessary to correct their material and social status and provide them with security both during their performance and responsible and dangerous duties, and do not give God in the event of suffering. We believe that this Law has improved the situation, that we have provided the basis for repairing the situation in this extremely dangerous profession, that we have better and more accurately defined relations between demining entities, that we have improved the status of pyrotechnics, that we have increased their social security and rights from working legal status and that this Law, or both of these laws, will certainly contribute to the improvement of the status of these employees, as well as the overall improvement of this extremely important activity for the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there are always opportunities and better and better quality to solve certain problems. I only once again warn that when this Law was adopted, we had to respect the complete system of pension disability insurance, the Law on the Stallion of Insurance with increased duration and we will also discuss these amendments and the possibility of further improving this Act, i.e. both of these laws, i.e. the status of pyrotechnicians. And we are open to further initiatives to correct the status and employees and this very activity, which is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia. And to conclude that these are two good laws, that it will improve the activities of demining, that better and better safety of pyrotechnicians and other participants in this responsible work will be ensured. That we have better, better and more precisely defined the rights and obligations and mutual relations of all participants and that this really is a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53171	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Secondly, the Final Proposal for a Law on humanitarian demining, second reading. The amendments were proposed by HSP representative club and representative Pero Kovacevic. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic would like to see the amendment of MP Pera Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53173	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Namely, as I said in the debate it would violate the system established by law in...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53174	A little louder please and a little more peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53175	This would violate the Beneficent Train System established by the Insurance Statutory Act with an increase in duration, as well as the pyrotechnicians in the MUP have benefits of 4 months per year. Which doesn't mean we won't talk to the Pension Insurance Office and find a solution as proposed. So the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53176	HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53177	Your Honor, Mr. President. Namely, our amendment is on the trail of the Regulation establishing the duties of the military personnel in which the insurance internship is accounted for with an increased duration and method of calculating that internship. It was brought in, the government brought in and published it in "The People's News", the 42nd edition of 2003. And it's in Article 2. Every 12 months, it counts as 18 months of duty insurance and, he says, pyrotechnics. It would therefore be logical if the Government had brought this proposal into line with its Regulation. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53178	Please come in. We can vote. The result? 26 for the amendment, 16 abstentions, 67 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment of MP Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53179	The second amendment is accepted, but in a different nomotechnical statement because the proposed amendment in the original nomotechnical statement is not good. It is therefore accepted in the statement "The persons referred to in Article 36 of this Act in the event of an injury or incompetence to work that has been created as a consequence of the conduct of humanitarian demining operations are recognised" and the text remains as it was in the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53180	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53181	I accept, consensually.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-14-0.u53182	Thank you very much. Amendment accepted in modified form. Thank you. No more amendments, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that, unanimously with 115 votes, the Law on humanitarian demining was adopted in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amended amendment. We are going to the following point: - Final proposal of the law on the division of the Croatian railway company, Croatian Railways d.o.o., emergency procedure. The Proposer of the Law is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate submitted by the Committees on Law, Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections. State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Drazen Breglec will further explain the bill's proposal. Here you go.
