ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46325	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, Mr. Palaric, colleagues and colleagues. We know that the cause of this interpretation came after the local elections in May 2005 and, of course, some are wondering if there's any sense of interpretation now, here's almost 6 months after the events started, I wouldn't even say finished, some are still going on, we know that. And is the subject of interpretation he is the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in implementing the laws and exercise of the rule of law and protecting democratic institutions and multilaterals as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, even suitable for an instrument called impelation. In fact, I was inspired by the debate or the replica of my colleagues before who spoke about what was the goal of politics and said that the policy was aimed at conquering and acting as authorities. This is quite true and I am sure that the fellow representative had in mind and what we all have in mind, one supplement, or at least one supplement, which is the behaviour of the authorities to the benefit of the citizens, the behaviour of the authorities in accordance with the democratic principles of the modern states, especially those of the European states. If we accept this thesis and hardly anyone will object to it, then we are wondering through the interpretation of whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done all that is appropriate to its constitutional position to prevent or reduce the consequences of certain actions especially of certain individuals, we will later come to the details, which seriously question the achievement of this principle in practice, the democratic practice we have been developing in the Republic of Croatia from the very beginning and the creation of our country and we will continue to develop because of course it has never completed the process. We're wondering, they were wondering if this interpretation was too general? It is general but not general because it applies to principles, principles that should guide all of us in behavior and acquisition if you want the authorities to. What happened? In the local elections in 2005, she escalated the practice that we once knew, let us remember the City of Zagreb Assembly from 1997. The practice of post-actions that are not suitable for constitutional principles or good practices of democratic states, and sometimes are close and certain criminal acts related to corruption, changes the political will of citizens. If we said democratic decision-making is a supreme value, one of the supreme values of the Constitution. He is in Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and is responsible for the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and for the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and for the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and for the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and for the implementation of the Treaty on the If the Constitution guarantees the right to local and regional self-government, then it is clear that these constitutional values can only be realised if, apart from the explicit provisions of the laws and regulations, the inherent values behind these norms are respected. And let's not get into that mistake we often complain about in our courts. So they read the law from letter to letter. The law has its own spirit. There is also our constitution its own spirit which is much wider, much bigger, much more open than these few words written on a piece of paper. Behind these values is another one that does not appear in the Constitution. One word that is the basis of political democracy, which is trust. Trust of citizens in institutions. We often complain here that citizens do not trust politicians. Look at all those public opinion analyses. Indeed, citizens don't trust politicians. They don't trust us in the Parliament. They don't trust political parties. And how colleagues and colleagues will trust us when after they put their vote for option A that option A is partly transformed and becomes a political option B. And advocates drastically other political values than those for which they put their vote in the ballot box. It seems to me that such an open-minded practice is not related to one party or any political option, and that is precisely what the proponents intend to do to indicate that such a phenomenon is something harmful that we all have to fight together. How can he trust such a government? We see very clear expressions of mistrust in local government after 2005 and we seem to see what happened in Sisak, Karlovac, Osijek, Velika Gorica, Dubrovnik, and perhaps elsewhere...... Say more, however, wherever it happened, it violates not only the reputation of us here but also the democratic values contained both in the Constitution and in the customs, democratic customs that we have accepted. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The question arises whether the aim of elections and parties and politicians is to come to power at all costs. Is all the funds allowed? We know which means is allowed. Elections are allowed. It's a real tool. Political agitation. Propagating your political beliefs. A pluralism that is undoubtedly the value of our system. But is it acceptable to come to power by offering the elected representative on a political option a certain amount of money, to offer certain benefits for his political group, party or independent list? Is it appropriate to please relatives, friends? I personally don't think that's appropriate. I'm sure all of you share that opinion is just a question of how much courage we'll all get together and say no to that kind of practice. Why impelation? Interpletion because we believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a situation where certain participants of such processes said: "Yes, I have been offered money. I have been offered promises." When contracts were signed that smelled very strongly of corruption, the government did not take everything that it could and must do according to its constitutional position. What would that be? In the first row and in some other cases, we listened to how the prime minister or government ordered the state's attorney to do this or that. He ordered this or that. It's a question of whether he can at all, given the constitutional position of the state's attorney, but if the state's attorney isn't and can't be extended by the government then the police are part of the system that the government oversees. He has to go into business to motivate. I don't know if it's serious or at least public, and I don't know if anyone here knows anything serious has been done after they've signed certain quasi-corruption or corrupt agreements or after one of the media participants has said, "I've been promised so much to do, to cross, to run from one camp to another." So that's one of the government's failures we point to. The second failure stems from the government's not just the tip of the execution. Government, our common government is also a political body. It forms both public opinion and political scene with its views, political views. And that's where the government could and had to hit hard on these phenomena and not let them go through with silence. Why shouldn't that be allowed? That's why, in fact, this interpretation, regardless of what might be part of this election or most of it too late. It's not too late for future cases. That's why her generality doesn't bother. At least I don't mind. Because you might get cases like this if you... Today we pass the kicks will be repeated tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only at the local level will it repeat itself at the state level. And that's something we all have to avoid together. By entering political life, we all wear a certain degree of someone greater depending on their position for Croatia's future, for its democratic development, and a special responsibility, of course, is the Government. You'll see, by suggesting conclusions, we're aware that the government, of course, is not the only one responsible for this. And we're responsible. Political parties are also responsible. The politicians are responsible for the scene and the conclusions we offer may be atypical for one interpretation. They're atypical because they're not just about the government. We're giving all of us certain messages. Messages of morality in politics. Messages that will allow the public and citizens not to say tomorrow and today are all equal. Not all of them are equal, neither are individuals participating in the political scene, and neither are those in parties or in certain independent groups, especially in local elections, who must carry out the will of citizens. So what is what we suggest as conclusions? We propose to the government to task the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take measures, within its jurisdiction, to strengthen the responsibility of the participants in the behaviour of the authorities at all levels. Yes, the conclusion is general, but they are general and the powers that the government has. The government is top of the execution and the government in the state administration system has instruments for effective supervision. Furthermore, we propose that the competent state authorities be tasked with launching proceedings in those cases where the data and statements of some participants were made that there were attempts at corruption. Through this, it seems to me that the debacle is both us and those in charge of the persecution. In order to further develop political and democratic culture, the Croatian Parliament should stress that regulations and political action must achieve a greater degree of transparency of the political parties' actions, highlight the responsibility for respecting election results, allow greater influence by the electoral body on party behaviour, candidates, elected council members and holders of independent lists. Of course, all of this is possible, we are going back to the government's authority on those who, in our political practice, and also according to the Constitution, are most often proposing new laws, to approach a thorough revision of electoral legislation, to establish political parties and to determine in one way that guarantees transparency and parties, the work of parties and the work of politicians, and finally, that may be atypical, so it is an invitation to everyone, not just the Government, that the Croatian Parliament therefore invites all participants of election and democratic processes to participate in them in accordance with the Constitution and the principles of democratic society, respecting the electoral will of citizens. I don't see any issue with these proposed conclusions. Perhaps one of those who have participated in those actions that are not appropriate to these democratic standards will find themselves affected. Perhaps they will find those who will say that such an atypical interpretation crosses the usual frames of interpretation. We agree with that, and in fact, we claim that in this case it is necessary. And once again we call for the express legal norms contained in the Constitution, the law respect those which are part of the ordinary, political and ordinary right, to respect the spirit of constitutional and legal provisions and that now that time is stopped all those future actions that would, in the way that it happened after the local elections in 2005, violate citizens' trust in power. I know the government will surely say how she did everything in preparation for the election to pass legally. The government will certainly say that, I also heard on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system that there were no objections to the election process by international organisations. That's right. But we don't even negotiate an election. Sources have indeed been carried out democratically, and after these, for many years now, it would have been terrible for the relatively many years of our democracy if the election process itself had not been conducted legally and transparently. So our view is against what happened after the elections, in that part of the process in which the political will of citizens was subsequently changed, and in which those authorities elected by the citizens were scattered under something we call political corruption. Here, today is one of the headlines in the paper that one of the first steps in Croatia's integration into the European Union is just to fight corruption, that we are particularly resented. The second title right now is that as citizens in the polls except for what they put first, which is to improve their standards and employment concerned by of course corruption and consider the greatest evil. It is up to us to prevent this corruption, and what we are closest to is politics, obviously bearing one seal of corruption that needs to be eradicated. I thank you, and I hope the support of my fellow MPs. I know there will be objections to this or that formulation. This may not be the most important, and I hope, as colleague Linic, who at the end of the debate on the first interpretation, I will be able to say that it has been achieved, how we have expressed our unity with our debate on the existence of these highest values of democracy in our legal and political system and how we have contributed to the global awareness of these values in the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46326	Thank you. Does a government official want to replicate? State Secretary Antun Palaric. Excuse me, Secretary of State. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46327	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, he could not agree with some mild interpretations of this interpretation by an esteemed representative. More could be said to have changed the political circumstances, I would have lost count. And what I find incorrect, and I say it is not true that this government has not taken everything, because by applying the legal powers of the Government, a representative body has disbanded a body that has not elected a chief within the legal time limit. But she also did a few more interventions in those environments that violated the Electoral Law. However, this government cares about fully carrying out the will of voters expressed in the elections. I would like to remind you that you promised the voters a change of electoral law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46328	Thank you, thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. There's no argument. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46329	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect allegation that an esteemed counterpart, Josipovic, was ordered by the government and the prime minister of the government to the State's attorney and the state's attorney to conduct an investigation in certain cases. It is true that the government has called on the State Attorney's Office to examine certain allegations and certain doubts that there is a criminal offence somewhere, which is legal and legitimate. And this is an important difference from the order of the State's Attorney's office, which is not done by this Croatian government. The state's attorney's office should be independent, which I hope we all agree to, we stand up for the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46330	Thank you. Our friends from Latvia, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Republic of Latvia, are with us at the gallery. Here, we welcome them. Let's move on. [[Applause]] Representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46331	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and dear guests. The government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted a report on the interpretation in which, for who knows which time, it highlights the fact that both the international and domestic public that the Croatian republic is a democratic state in which all institutions operate within the limits of their powers. The government remains committed to the rule of law, the democratic multilateral system and strengthening local self-government as one of the Constitutions of guaranteed rights of Croatian citizens, so it has taken everything at its disposal in the Croatian legal system, to create material and technical assumptions for the implementation of the elections, normative assumptions, as it has proposed before the elections to improve the electoral legislation adopted by this Parliament with a very large majority and made sure that I am the electoral process, so that only the determination of the will of citizens is carried out by law in accordance with the highest democratic standards. I think that's what we did. All who participated in this process of 36,000 members of the electoral committees over hundreds of members of election committees, including political parties who also conducted this pre-election campaign within the borders of the Croatian state's civilization flows. We have all contributed to the best of the elections and more, I hope for ever, there will be no foreign observers in Croatia in the elections. Following the elections, the government called for the constitutive meetings of the county parliaments. I have authorized the presidents to convene the constitutional sessions of the city and municipal councils and in a large, vast number of constitutions have gone without a problem. Several situations have arisen, five units of local self-government did not come into existence and after several attempts to convene constitutional sessions, legal mechanisms were re-applyed, extraordinary elections were called in those units of local self-government. In some units no representation has been ensured under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, whether representatives of national minorities have not been elected and could not be completed by applying the legal provisions that allow it, whether they are not ensured, that there is no guarantee that members of the Croatian people are represented, and therefore, additional elections have been issued in these units of local self-government. After the election results have been determined, I have given authority to the representatives to call for constitutional meetings, I believe that during the next week and in those units local self-government local authorities will be established according to election results. The issue is the extent to which the government can influence the majority at local level. The government remained out of it, she left it to the autonomy of local elected representatives, starting with the fact that the mandate was won in the elections inalienable. It's not new to us after these elections because some councilmen went from one option to the other or from the other to the first, so that it wasn't just moving on one side. It happened that elected councilmen changed their minds, bowed down to someone else. This may not be moral, but the law is allowed, and it finally happened in an esteemed home when people left the parties, but kept their mandates, moved to another, founded their parties, and it happens in Croatia, and that is while within the limits of the law we cannot intervene. There was a suspicion that there was corruption in the purchase of councilmen. The government has no knowledge of that. The government calls on all those who have evidence that there was corruption, to file criminal charges against law enforcement authorities, and wants it processed. So, this interpretation appeared at a time when the government normably wanted to fix the electoral system, when it launched the electoral reform, when it proposed the Law on the State Election Commission as a permanent body, as an idea that had long been present, but no one had the strength to launch and when it proposed a law on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and municipal commissioners, and this is the way to avoid in the future the situation which was now assessed as questionable from the moral point of view. The government therefore believes that it has taken everything at its disposal. It will continue to take action to improve local self-government and local democracy and democracy in general to propose that the Parliament rejects impediment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46332	Thank you. Corrections to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46333	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of my colleague Palaric, Secretary of State Palaric, who said all state institutions are acting within his authority. That's incorrect. I wish that were true. If all state institutions were to act within their powers, these interpretations would probably not be. It means that it would function as a rule of law and that everything would be contained. Another incorrect claim regarding a criminal application. Mr. Palaric at the first insinuation that there is a trade, you as State Secretary should have asked the State's Attorney to take appropriate measures and to inform the media what it is. So anyone who finds out, because there is an indication that a crime has been committed, is obliged to act both the Government and you and me and Ivo Josipovic and all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46334	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46335	It is incorrect that the secretary of state claimed that the government had no knowledge that corruption had occurred somewhere. It is true that an eclectic example of political corruption occurred when a member of the government, Minister Vukelic concluded a contract with 77-year-old Franjo Capan on behalf of the HDZ and pledged to provide a minimum of 20 thousand kuna per month for the functioning of the party that the old man belongs to, although according to election success only has the right to 2 thousand kuna. In every normal country if the minister did not resign, the entire government would fly away with him, and the minister would be happy not to go to jail.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46336	Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46337	Same thing. So it's a surprise that the secretary of state is saying that the government has no knowledge of the purchase of councilmen, and a member of the government is signing a commercial contract on the purchase of councilmen, a trade contract. Therefore, not that the government has knowledge but the government is buying, members of the government are buying council members.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46338	It was an inter-party contract, not a contract with the government. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46339	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Same subject. Mr. Palaric said the government did not interfere with all this together, but left it to local communities, and a member of the government, the minister signed the contract. All right, as president of the local HDZ, however, he is a minister, neither the Prime Minister nor the government said anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46340	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Your Honor, this is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46341	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 41st session held on 9 November 2005 discussed the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of the Law and the exercise of the rule of law, and the protection of democratic institutions and multilaterals as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. This interpretation was discussed by the Committee on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Committee noted that there were alleged individual examples of immoral behaviour by individual politicians or political parties after the elections. In this respect, the Committee considers that the interpretation does not reflect the situation in relation to the elections made for local and regional self-government representatives in 2005 because, in most units, electoral and constitutional representative bodies have been conducted in accordance with the law. According to the Committee's assessment, the Government has taken all measures and actions during the election procedure until the establishment of representative bodies. The majority of the members of the Committee hold the interpretation incomprehensible, with general conclusions and considers that the issues raised in the interpretation should not be solved by interpretation, but by means of procedures before the competent state authorities. After the debate, the Committee proposed by a majority vote, which means 6 votes for and 1 against, to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion that it rejects this interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46342	Thank you. I'm opening a debate, and since we have eight clubs and 23 individual debates, we'll be working without a break. The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is good to discuss the work of the Government in Parliament and, often, in all its competences and with all its aspects, and in particular, it is the responsibility and work of the opposition in Parliament as a corrective factor in the face of all the authorities. In particular, this topic on the government's responsibility against the functioning and functioning of local and regional self-government is welcome after local elections and promises and announcements that such radical changes will take place in this mandate that election systems will be new and that local self-government will work much easier. In particular, because the government in these two years rejected and rejected all opposition proposals made on the subject, especially proposals made by the Croatian People's Party Club. And that, at the same time, apart from a few cosmetic changes, she didn't come up with any serious project that would benefit local and regional self-government. Local self-government is the first place the citizens of this country face power. And what an impression, impression and quality of service of an age, that is to say, the cost and overall functioning of the government in one country. But I must speak to the promoter of the point immediately and say that I expected the proposed conclusions on this point to be even more radical, stronger, perhaps clearer to me, if we really want to get government and force some of the demands that come out of the very explanation to be solved as soon as possible. So that's why I express the wonder why they're in general, why we're telling the government to take measures, not to say which. That the authorities have to do something, and they're not, so I don't know who they are. And that the Croatian Parliament emphasizes and calls for the Croatian Parliament. It is about a little political declaration from the contents of the Parliament that I do not believe will give the effects of those which the interpretation and seriousness of the topic should, so it would be good to have a discussion and, as long as the debate continues, we may get a proposal yet stronger conclusions. As far as I'm concerned, all those involved in the sale of mandates, whether they were buying or selling, should be arrested and closed. The government's report on impelation says the government did everything and everything is great. Nothing in local self-government is great. There's something that's good, something that's less good. What's bad, and I think most of it is what's really bad. If it's the subject of a trade mandate, I wonder who's buying what? Why is it becoming a market for mandates? And no formal stock exchange. Whose shares on that market are most valuable? The mayor, the mayor and the mayor. There are 570 of them in this country, and then they're shares of their deputies that are slightly less valuable, they're like a thousand and 140. Then the third category of shares of members of the headship, somewhere around 3,000 900 members of the headship is obviously on the market in this country. But I've never heard of anyone buying or selling a mandate in order to be or not to be president of the county council, city council or municipal council. Those stocks aren't on the stock market because they obviously don't. And now I wonder what would happen to the prices of those shares if we had direct elections? How much would the shares of the mayors, the mayor, the mayors of the voters be worth then? How much would the shares of their deputies or perhaps the shares of the present members of the headship that would then not exist at all be worth? And buying shares for these functions is from voters. It's an election. In 2001, we offered direct elections, in 2003, in 2004, and it didn't work out. Now we are all dissatisfied with the trade of mandates as if for the first time it happened in Croatia. Even after these elections, it was far less than before. But the instrument of protection to keep those shares out of the market at all, four times in this House have been rejected. The government, however, came up with some kind of bill on their direct choice, a little strange in content, a segmentally resolved without a full vision. The first reading is over. The other new laws of this type didn't come, and I don't think they'll be here soon. So the government is responsible for having twice been offered to solve this problem by amending electoral legislation. But your responsibility is equally borne by all of you both in the past and in this term of Parliament, which you then and now voted against such proposals. You share that responsibility with the government. The problems of local and regional self-government are of course not, you will agree with me, only in the purchase of mandates. Or just for sale. The problems are her jurisdiction, under her regulatory authority. For example, in health care where the state has set up a system of administrative councils that appoints its directors, where the state determines the budget of the health institution in June for each month, where the state signs a collective contract and determines the material expenditure for the employees of the lip for each month, and where the losses of these same health institutions go to the burden of the county as the owner. And then we publicly order a message and the other day that the counties will settle the losses of these health institutions or all directors should be replaced and the administrative councils responsible for the resulting budget losses that determines no talks, there are no talks in collective agreements. It's the same for you in social care. All institutions for the elderly in the exact same regime as the hospitals in the pool of certain assets, in the pool of fixed salaries and material costs, in the fair established price of accommodation of persons who are located in those same institutions, so on. Prices where the state has been late for months to pay for the contracts it has concluded with those same institutions owned by regional self-government and whose losses I ask regional self-government under the law of the answer. And for those housing costs that municipalities have to subscribe to poor citizens, and the county has to, imagine, buy heating trees to those who don't have them and exactly 3 cubic meters a year, it doesn't write noises or predatories. What about the joint investment contracts that local or regional self-government had with the state, and the state came out of them, and the projects were in more than half? One-sided termination of the contract. The regional self-government is the owner, the state is the master and regional self-government is responding. Such a position of regional and local self-government does not have any countries that are in the European Union or that negotiates to enter it. Or what is the position of local and regional self-government in resolving property or border disputes? If I can't agree, the government has formed the basis of the Law on the Areas of the municipalities, cities and counties of the arbitration commission. How many cases a year does this arbitration panel solve? How many items have been on the case since 1995? and do you know that the municipality cannot establish a spatial plan if there is no established limit? There's no limit, it can't determine the spatial plan. And did you know that with December 31st of this year, these representative bodies, by force of the law, are to be disbanded? On 31 December of this year, because the state is not working and is not solving cases that local or regional self-government has given the state to solve and no one is doing anything and everything is good and the government has done everything possible to make local self-government work. Whether each month the State regularly gives funds from the Fund of Alignment, so-called Decentralised funds in accordance with the plan and decisions? No, for some or half of them so far that they should have won. The Republic of Croatia in the State Budget since last year had incomes of 99 billion, the City of Zagreb 5 billion and 100, and all municipalities, all cities and all counties of 11 and a half billion kuna. Eleven-and-a-half. Income tax as the most significant source of income in last year, local self-government achieved 6.8 billion of which were 2 billion in Zagreb, so only 4.8 in the entire other territory of Croatia. The state took 3 billion 100. Did we suggest that income tax in full be left to local self-government? We did, twice, denied. Profit tax. Last year he was numbered 4 and a half billion, country 3 billion 100, local billion 450 of which 900 million Zagreb. All municipalities, all cities and all counties received 550 million incomes from profit tax, everything else is in the state or Zagreb. We said we needed to fix this urgently last year, because the model that was established in '93. year, when there was no profit in the Croatian economy, can't survive in 2005 because there was metropolision in terms of profit tax? The government said you shouldn't. Okay. Municipal and city taxes in all municipalities and cities under the laws to be charged, in last year 810 million kuna in all Croatia, county taxes 199 million, sales taxes on state properties took 350, local 500. So in the most significant sources of income, more remains the state than the local self-government. Are all municipalities, cities equal before the law? No, because of the population structure. Where the agricultural population or the majority agricultural population of the large municipality do not have enough resources where the social structure of the population is those who do not make income, they do not have income from the title of taxes, almost zero. The government says she solved all the problems. That is why we have a situation that, for example, in the Primorje-Gorski County incomes, tax revenues, i.e. the total income per capita amounted to 5 thousand 100, while in Virovitica-Podravska County, 2,000 and 2 kuna. We therefore probably had this consequence of the fact that on average this income was 3 thousand 143 kuna per capita, and we have counties that achieved 1,000 kunas as Brod-Posaviska, so it had Dubrovnik-Neretvanska with 4 thousand 300 per capita, but also Vukovar-Srijemska with a thousand 800 kuna per capita. Do these counties have different powers and obligations and these cities? Do we favor them in other ways, or do they have to work less, or are they incompetent that the system of state, tax policies, gives them weaker results? No, I don't. The government does not want to understand the diversity of the situation resulting from different funding, the inability to carry out the basic tasks given to local self-government, and before that we close our eyes and argues that it has done everything. We, local self-government, frame them in laws. We give them a little bit of money, and for the citizens they're all blamed by the municipal chiefs, city fathers and mayors. If Mr. Secretary of State is talking about a major reform, he mentioned a reform of electoral legislation. It wasn't a reform. Maybe it'll come to her, now we don't have her, and they missed the chance to do it before these local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46344	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46345	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, an incorrect quote is certain that it has been repeated several times by the state. In fact, we know that the state collects money according to the law, but it's interesting that when the state is to attack when the budget is full, and when the budget is to be emptied, then both our workers and our teachers, our patients, so this state should give to everyone, and where did it come from? That's what Mr. Lesar clearly forgot to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46346	HDZ representative club respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46347	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! A representative of the proposings, too, was quoted as saying that this is an interpretation that is a little more general but that nevertheless it is a good basis for a debate concerning these last elections. I agree with that, and in fact, it was about yesterday and the debate on the Committee on the Constitution, although I would personally like to, and I think that a lot of other representatives would be more specific, that it is a little more precise and clearer with accurate data, names, last names, because in fact, commercially looking at interpretation should be. It is, in my opinion, a business institute that needs to be completely precise and clear because after the debate on interpretation we see in fact in our Rules of Procedure that it is possible to also lead to a debate on the confidence of the Government, a single minister, so that I consider this interpretation as one basis for debate on things that happened in the last elections more as a debate on some state of democracy and multilaterality in us at this point than as a debate on the trust of the Government or the restoring ministry. If we analyze the interpretation itself, if I can start from the end, in these conclusions I have to admit I don't really see anything controversial. The conclusions in that interpretation are not at all controversial and, in our opinion, they are actually being carried out. Point 1 says "the government is in charge of taking measures to strengthen the responsibility of all participants in all levels". In our opinion, the government does. Point 2. "the competent state authorities are tasked to immediately initiate the procedures of their jurisdiction to verify the credibility of statements of political corruption and to determine all forms of responsibility for the attempted bribery of individual elected representatives." In our opinion, that's what state bodies do, I'm just wondering if there are any criminal charges. It's some element that the state's attorney's office means the foundation of criminal charges to launch, open procedures because these criminal charges will show some facts, some evidence will be proposed, and this is material based on which the state's attorney can work. I can tell, it was apostrophe here, the Carlovec problem. We're the contract that was given here, we just gave it to the state's attorney's office, so go ahead and question if there's anything dishonest about it, so of course there's a sanction. There's nothing at all controversial. So when I say we look at these conclusions individually they're not controversial. What, though, is controversial? It's been slow all this time. Of course, this is disputed before the interpretation comes from the fact that after these elections there have been procedures and activities of certain parties and politicians who, now he says, if the data are true seriously endangering the Constitution and the law certain rules of conduct and good customs of political life. It is about alleged purchases of votes and mandates to non-discipline settlements. So here we are in the interpelation saying that there are alleged purchases, that there are alleged irregularities, alleged immorality. So we don't have specific data, we don't have concrete facts whether that's the case. And then we found the culprit in who? We found the culprit in the government. The government is responsible for not sanctioning something that we're not sure happened. I think there's a certain misunderstanding here, and I don't think we can call the government on such a responsibility that she hasn't taken on something that we're not sure happened. We think all this stuff that's been going on has to be determined by the state's bodies. What was unfair and immoral in the elections will certainly be sanctioned by voters in the next elections. What was illegal is the obligation to sanction the Government, it is obliged to sanction the Central State Office that we have already heard has already made certain decisions on disbanding and on extraordinary elections. And what's been criminal throughout that story has to be sanctioned by the State's Attorney's Office and in order for the State's Attorney's Office to sanction it, I've already said, it needs to be given some information. Here are examples of Sisak, Gorica, Osijek, likely in the debate each of us from our area will be able to find some irregularities and highlight them here. But I must say, as far as Sisko is concerned, I would especially touch him here because we also had a proposal on the Committee on the Constitution for a credible interpretation of the law. And what happened in Sisak? In Sisak, a weakness of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities has actually been shown. I believe a good law, one law with noble intentions is actually a mockery on the ground. For what? This happened after the election of the ruling coalition, the power ratio is 25 to 24 in favour of the coalition, it doesn't matter who it is. Three members of the national minority are then resigned. They're absolutely right, it's not controversial. Instead, they are not replaced by other members of national minorities but by others. We come to the fact that we no longer have the equal representation of national minorities in that council. An additional fill-up of the county assembly is projected where the relationship of forces is changing. We no longer have a majority that is 25 to 24 than we have a more comfortable and comfortable majority 27 to 25. Now, of course, the proposal is to assess whether the three members of the assembly were to replace three other members of the minority, there will likely be discussions in credible interpretation. But in any case, whether it's legal, or illegal law enforcement, it wasn't when he passed that law. That's for sure. And if that kind of model that happened in Sisak we go through, if we go through it we open up the possibilities of actually changing the choice of voters in such environments. That's what's really not good. What happened in Gorica? Can we blame the government for that? I don't think we can blame the government for that. The government has tabled a proposal for credible interpretation. What happened in Velika Gorica? The president of the city council does not convene a meeting of the city council for three months within the legal time limit to which he was to call it. Why? Because a member of the headship resigned and wants to activate his mandate as a member of the congregation. However, the city council's mandate committee not to have been resolved by the headship members but had previously deprived him of the city council's mandate. And why is that? Because he's the overpower that will bring power to one side or the other. But that is unfortunately the consequence of the situation in these choices that marked them in the good part. We have one situation today that some of the coalitions that were unimaginable yesterday were quite imaginative today, and today they happened. And you know, coalitions that have never worked before, which may have been tense and cracked, and in order for some coalition to function, it must have one tradition, it must actually have a century that makes it stable. So we have a situation here to coalition almost everyone with everyone who wasn't before, and that's why many coalitions have failed or changed. The other thing that marked these elections the same thing is that the voices were dispersing a little bit. I think there's been a loss of our voters' trust in the party. Independent lists appeared, independent candidates appeared, you have municipal councils where it was that you had one entered from one list of independents, two from another list of independents, three from the list of one party. And in such a situation, it is difficult to put together a stable government that will function. These are the things that have marked these local elections, and I think that the government has just seen the situation that it has and reacted well to insist on this direct election proposal, and in the end we all supported, directly in the choice of mayors, mayors and mayors who should prevent such things in the future. It is also a good decision for the government to go, it went with the Law on the State Election Commission, a permanent body, because this State Election Commission under the provisions will take care of the electoral lists and the electoral lists were one of the problems indeed in these elections and otherwise are the problem. And it's really hard to accept the thesis that the government here is guilty and that it has missed some procedures and some measures to take its responsibilities. The secretary of state said and at the end of a large number, we have over 500 units of local self-government the largest part of those units have been established, for, in fact, no problem, and this temperature has been raised for the elections, which was before the transition from one party to another was before, the immoral proceedings were before, but the immorality will actually be sanctioned first, will be sanctioned by voters in the next election, because it is quite certain that the one chosen on the list of one party for unorthodox or immoral reasons has passed over the course of the mandate on the other side, which I think is no longer a place in political life, that there is unfortunately no legal opportunity to remove such from political life, but it will certainly make voters. From all of this, we're not going to accept the interpretation as a club. There is nothing to say against the conclusions, they are general and we believe that they are being conducted, but we believe that what happened in the elections is cases that have a name and a name, which have exactly who committed it, and that those who have knowledge of it should be brought about by some fine criminal application in the name and last name with all the evidence that exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46348	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Analysing the first proposed conclusion: It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take measures within its jurisdiction to strengthen the responsibility of all actors in the conduct of the government at all levels. A colleague of Bosnjakovic says the government is doing it and it is incorrect. That's the quote I'm correcting. If the government had done so, it would have replaced its member, Minister Vukelic, the moment journalists discovered and when the fact came to the public that he signed an unworthy trade contract on the purchase of councilmen. I won't talk about the criminal aspect of such a commercial... But he's immoral. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the government of its jurisdiction what could it have done? She could say, no, we as Government don't approve of such actions, it's not going to work by the ministers of this government, and if they do, they won't be ministers of this government. But the fact that the government didn't do it supports it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46350	Second correction, respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46351	So I am correcting the quote of my colleagues, Bosnjakovic, who said that he had no responsibility for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, among other things, by citing the example of Sisak County, it is not true because the government is precisely seeking to change the political will of the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County and it is arguing beyond the law that elected council members who have been elected from the regular lists must be replaced by council members of the same national minority. It's not the point of the law and it's not the will of the law. Because the law in Article 9c states, a member of the minority representative body which has been increased, an increased number of members of the representative body may be replaced only by a member of the national minority. These members of the council were not elected as members of the national minority or of the party on whose lists the council members were elected do not collect the blood cells of the individual candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46352	Third correction by the respected representativeplatmir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46353	So Bošnjakovic incorrectly found that by generalising that votes in the local elections were dispersed and it was completely incorrect, the votes were not dispersed in Varazdin, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Molvama, Slatini, Požega, Zagreb, Rijeka, Istria, etc., so we cannot generalise, we cannot generalise that the votes were dispersed, even more so in these elections for the first time by some candidates and some lists received unremembered support from citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46354	Thank you. Honourable representative Ivo Josipovic, on behalf of the proponent of the impelation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46355	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is very short, I am inspired in some way by the presentation of representatives of the government, colleagues of Lesar and colleagues of Bosnjakovic. In fact, the question arises how many conclusions should go into detail and how much they should go in general. This naturally depends on the applicant's ambitions. Our ambition was to try to get a consensus conclusion or at least one dominant majority. So, to get into the details of, say, whether to buy a newspaper, order a newspaper to the government if he reads the paper, because the newspaper on the cover page wrote I got an offer to make for so much and so much... I hand over my mandate, a little... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's not necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We assume that this level of concreteity is not necessary but that we should maintain that level of concreteity that allows for the achievement of the essence and goal and it is awareness-raising of the problem and respecting that the problem is not repeated. This is how counterpart Bosnjakovic interpreted his conclusions as acceptable, so vote for conclusions. Great! You think that they are being conducted perhaps, if they are not implemented, the public will then assess it, you will vote for them for one reason, we for other reasons, and otherwise it is astounding to me that the government does not accept the conclusion: The government is in charge of taking measures within its jurisdiction. Either to develop a democratic political culture or to be called, not to repeat now, I don't read everything. I'm surprised that this isn't acceptable to the government, which is why we have generally formulated these conclusions that they are acceptable to everyone, we see the HDZ Club are acceptable, I'm very happy, I suggest we vote for those conclusions, and that's why the whole problem, I think, as far as the debate is concerned, is resolved here. And then political practice will show that we see what it really means in political life. Here, briefly that was the reason for the generality, our wish is to be a consensus on the main, fundamental, political values, and not a strain on certain individual measures because we assume that within our jurisdiction, every state body knows what to do to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46356	Thank you very much. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46357	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, So I'm glad that this point came to the agenda and I'm glad that we can talk about our immorality that came after the last local elections that, in the right sense, disabling the political credibility of all those who are in politics. And thirdly, I'm glad we can read about these proposed conclusions, four of them. And I'll do it, but from a different point of view, but also that we can suggest or rather describe what we're going to do in the future? The conclusions, as we see them, say: First, it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take measures under its jurisdiction and so on, absolutely agree. Second, or second conclusion, the second point states: it is up to the competent national authorities to immediately initiate procedures under their jurisdiction to verify the credibility of statements of political corruption and to establish all forms of responsibility for the attempted bribery of individuals, allegedly without quotes clearly, bribement of individual elected representatives. In principle, we absolutely agree, but I will also say that political corruption is not just for example to give someone 50 or 100 thousand euros in order to change party colors. Promise him this or that. Corruption and I dare say the worst form is when, for example, it's coalitiond in Lab's red and black against the IDS that got 45% of the votes there. In Labin, where IDS has certainly invested more than EUR 100 or 200 thousand in 15 years, how much was the price of HSP councillors in Dubrovnik or Velika Gorica if we believe in the inscriptions in our media. Why is all this immorality happening, gentlemen? Among other things, this immorality has been driven by changes in local legislation somewhere in 2001, where local council members are chosen exclusively by a proportionate system. And that's the point. It was clear to all of us who were in Parliament there in 2001 what would happen? That there is going to be this political trade or the sale that some MPs are talking about. That there's going to be a councilman buying. The awakenings of the so-called independent lists that are as independent as me or you. Independents are clear from the parties and are certainly trying to be dependent on urban, municipal and so forth budgets, which is much more dangerous. And don't let me count on it. The third point of these conclusions is that in order to further develop political democratic culture, the Croatian Parliament stresses that regulations and political action must achieve a greater degree of transparency, the action of political parties. Emphasise their responsibility for respecting, respecting your election results. To enable greater influence of the electoral body and so on. And it is necessary to approach the full legislative regulation of the establishment and financing of political parties as soon as possible, thus ensuring transparency of their work and the responsibility of parties and politicians and so on. To be honest, I regret that after these elections in some cities, for example in Velika Gorica, a final right with whose votes would be washed by this political set that leads the country today could repeat another mandate. And I would like so much to say that Velika Gorica was the cardinal mistake of the parliamentary opposition, although fortunately we are still being saved under the allegations of a third country that does not allow flirting with the relapses of the past. Here it is spoken of in point 3 and respecting the results of the elections, the transparency of political parties, and as I read it, quotes in paragraph 2 about the financing of political parties. First, only those parties who inherited significant assets from the former parties have a secure financial situation. And those parties clearly carried out the processes of conversion. Everyone else is poor. They live from choice to choice. Most of them are only funded by membership so that in political life today, let's say the idea of banning the work of parties that do not have 10,000 members. I personally hold, I don't know, that parties holding a picture of Pavelic were to be banned from the main apartment. And as for the meaning of point 3 of paragraph 2 on party financing for me, it does not matter, for example, if Mr Ostoja, he has now resigned from the House Fund but has not given up his department, let's say he donates IDS to both HSP and HDZ and HSS and so on, the DC is already a problem if some of these parties take sides with him, for example, around Libya. And it's known that IDS crashed into the privatisation of Liberia or in a book before today's Rivieras over 200 acres [200 ha] so-called. tourism land in Poreč, and we got it too I'll say 100 thousand kuna from it. Let's do it. We got a little bit. And you need to help that company on the other hand, but stand up against any machination clearly and that's actually the point. And clearly that the money afterwards appears in business books, and what is proposed today in some anti-corruption programmes, and so on, I fear that in the end this will lead to the Americanisation of Croatian politics leading to the survival of 3.4 no more parties on the political scene of the Republic of Croatia. And to deal with future politics only those who are rich. And since they've become rich in the '90s, they know it best, we know it, but there's nothing we can do about it anymore. If that happens, it'll be a disaster. So parties that are not parliamentary, and I want to stress that: they are not on the budget. Parties that do not have 5% at local level do not burden local budgets but only those that are, how do I express myself as bearers of these, under the allegations of party ideas. Article 4 quote: "The Croatian Parliament calls on all participants in democratic electoral processes to participate in it in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the principles of democratic society by respecting the electoral will of citizens." The emphasis is on this electoral will or, as Mr. Josipovic spoke of earlier, I quote it: "confident". I'll be back here on that Labin again. Is election will 45% of the vote? It should be. Okay. I know 65% of those 11 parties are more than 45%. But was it normal to deny that 45%? It's not. But in Croatia it can seem clear. But I also claim that not everyone is evil for evil. 2005. The IDS got 45% in Labin, and if Tulio Demetlika is smart enough in the next election, which will cost him both money and nerves and so on, he'll get 65%. A lot of things are being said in public, and that should be said, why does all this political immorality occur in Croatia? Now Mr. Bosnjakovic was also talking about these pre-election coalitions if I followed him well. I'm saying it has nothing to do with reality. All immorality in this country takes place after the election. Pre-election coalitions are pure. A citizen then knows who he votes for or which list he votes for. The immorality always arises after the election or by election. That's where the citizen gets expelled and the elite decide where their vote will be later? Before the election, for example in Labin, everything was clean. Everyone knew what they were giving a voice to? But after the election, this political perversion arises because I'm sure no Labinian who voted for the parties who are in a position to lead the city wouldn't vote if he knew what it would eventually become? It's probably the same with Big Gorica. Perhaps with Karoib where the IDS has done so even though it is probably irrelevant to political cards because of its 800 or 900 people, not voters, but residents, on the political map of Croatia, but it is important to bring or bring political credibility to any political option. Therefore, this Karoiba, this Velika Gorica, Dubrovnik, which was mentioned, quoted him as saying, Split, Osijek, Slavonsko-Baranja County, the paradigms are something immoral that de facto I strongly caused one bad, haired and some parties adapted to the Electoral Law. And that's the point. So let's not do the same thing with national legislation. If the electoral legislation is frisked, if the law is governed by consecrated interests, especially the electoral model, and all with the aim of eliminating someone in a dirty, immoral, non-democratic, non-political manner. Then there will be both caroiba and Labin and Dubrovnik and Slavonsko-Baranja County and Velika Gorica and then the Parliament will debate clearly about such interpretations, and the next day even worse things will happen at national level. And that's actually the point. Any electoral hairstyle leads to post-election perversion. Any adjustment of the electoral rules leads to the moral and political collapse of politicians, meaning people, us who participate in this, and finally any adjustment of election rules leads to citizens' revolt towards politics, so there is no need to wonder why they are getting smaller and smaller in front of election boxes year after year. Such a policy ultimately turns into a naked interest. Such a policy has been deprived of any morale. And such a policy this Parliament, government etc. Unfortunately, he has to, but he can't stop. So I'm going to say, in 2001, the electoral rules for local elections have been cut, and what could be a complete tragedy if the electoral rules are also cut out for parliamentary elections. And that's the point. Which means every party in power is writing election rules to itself. And we will probably agree that such a practice has at least been called non-democratic. Therefore, the key, in my opinion, will be the change in Croatia when the party in power can change the electoral rules, it is not disputed, but it will be applied as in the west to the next ones, and not to these first ones, the next elections. And that's the point. The IDS absolutely supports this interpretation. However, what does she say in some way? That the greater power and the least executive power is the power of this House, in a conveyed sense, I speak. We don't have the power here, we don't have the money to influence anything, but that's why the money's with the executive, and that's why there's so much jag at that local level. Because in 4 years, I don't know in one Great Gorica, it's perhaps 800 or a billion kuna, in one Zagreb 20 or 25 billion kuna, in that county in 4 years, billions of kuna, etc. All this clearly leads to the need to decentralisation the state. This degree of centralization, where the counties have 100 to 300 million kuna, 100 to 300 million kuna per year. It's something that's not normal, it's just funny. This way you can't, be careful, run these counties. With these systems, I claim, financing, the government shares Croatia. It's not what happened today, it's since '92. And this leads in some way to falsify the electoral will of Croatia, and thus clearly Croatia is compromised and finally subject to electoral rules. Croatia is not well written. And therefore, among other things, that unit of the local level, especially the county, we must, under the quotes "sustain" that they can act freely, and not depend on redistribution and political will at national level, whether or not to give someone the funds they need, an individual developmental end, because for that no authority, I claim, has received a salary to value someone. So the state needs to be decentralized. For the end, once again, we support this, these four conclusions. However, I will once again say that the key to political morality lies in electoral rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46358	Thank you. Four correcting incorrect allegations. First, distinguished representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46359	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Damir Cain who said that literally, corruption is also a coalition of red blacks against IDS in Labin. It is true that in Labin SDP he has formed a minority power with the support of HDZ and that is contrary to the will of the County Committee and the position of me as party president and the position of my party. Therefore, this is not about corruption, at least not in the sense that the SDP has submitted to this parliamentary procedure. And for that autonomous act of my colleagues in Labin they will either be punished or rewarded in future local elections. But I must also say to my colleagues that the local IDS should also be asked as a relatively strong 7-term winner why no political structure that entered the city council could find a partner. And so something rotted with the state IDS, in this case Labin, not to mention Denmark.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46360	Thank you. Dear Representative Drazen Bošnjaković, second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46361	So I'm correcting my colleague's allegations that I was talking about pre-election coalitions that are... I just said that there were some coalitions that had been established for the first time, which, as such without tradition, were actually little and tense and difficult to actually function. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why there's been a shooting of certain such coalitions. So, I wasn't talking about pre-election immoral coalitions, because coalition coalition coalitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46362	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46363	My colleague Cain repeated several times and claimed that the bad Electoral Law and the haired rules are the sole culprits for the events in Velika Gorica, Split, Dubrovnik, all of these post-election perversions and trades. He blamed it on the Electoral Law. That's incorrect. Both in the new and in any Electoral Law, immoral acts are possible, and political unculture is possible in post-election behaviour. But where are the institutions of the system? System institutions are competent to assess what is true, which is not. They can't behave these are ours, these are theirs. In Dubrovnik, these were ours, so it's going to be like this, and in other places they're not, so it's going to be like this. Therefore, the institutions of the system, the institutions of the government, the Constitutional Court and all of us must have the goal of changing the political culture and the mentality of behaviour because the Electoral Law, unfortunately, cannot solve it all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46364	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic, fourth correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46365	Here, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption actually to strengthen Damir Cain's claim. He spoke, so that our counties have budgets of 100 to 300 million kuna per year. The Međimurje County has a budget and less than that. By 2004, there was a budget of 87 million kuna, which is not a single promil, nor a thousandths, for example. the budget of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46366	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46367	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Some of the cases that motivated our colleagues from the SDP, which occurred after local elections for this interpretation, some cases are not known to the public or we who knew about them and were informed of them, felt that we should open a public debate at that time and inform the public about it. But just in order to support the position or better to tell the court that the public on this subject already has and to strengthen that court here in this House, I will give some examples that I know. After local elections in Gracac Municipality, which is primarily known for its poverty and that people living in it should actually be rewarded every morning in a special way for submitting this kind of poverty regardless of ethnicity and independent of the experiences and tragedies that brought war with them. Instead, one of the council members of the SDSS before going to the assembly, the day before going to the assembly of the municipal council from his employer, the director of one gas station and one of the members of the Ina Corporation received a message, i.e. He himself says in four eyes that he is not going to a constitutive session. This one interpreted it as a right to pressure his employer on his civic, in this case a political commitment, which apparently aimed at changing the results of the election in that particular constituency, i.e. in that municipality. The man, of course, has lost his job in the meantime, and this is an example of how some groups of non-poverty, misery and the difficult position most of the citizens of this country abuse to maintain their authority and their political monopoly. If it were just one case in every democraticised state, it would be worth the debate in this House, and as we know it is not, and it's not even in my limited knowledge because it happened similarly in Knin where, as you know, we have some difficulties in applying the constitutional law and policy that we are negotiating at the top of this country, which is that people who are council members of the SDSS are trying to change their political position in relation to very important issues not for the party, but for the city and for the state, they certainly are. It is particularly sensitive if those who are representatives of the state service are involved in such matters, and we have knowledge and information that they have tried to recruit and pressure certain people on their civic and political commitment. That's inadmissible. That's why there's a democratic public, and that's why there's this Parliament as a crown of democracy and so much, and that's why I welcome this interpretation. I don't understand it as an invitation to reconsider the government's responsibility, but I do understand it as a criticism of those segments of authorities that have no sensitivity to this issue. My colleagues and colleagues, bureaucracy cannot in itself be completely understandable to criticism, so it would not be bureaucracy. But political parties, political actors and government as a factor in political life certainly do. Bureaucracies can be professional or unprofessional. Independent and manipulated, but we cannot ask her to be sensitive to criticism, as we cannot ask Mr Palaric to do. He can only be professional or unprofessional. Professional in strict conjunctival supervision of legality and legal certainty. And now allow me, if there are enough cases in the public, as has been the case with individual representatives of the retired party who have been bribed, bribed, etc. This is sufficient reason for the interest not only of the State Attorney's Office but also of the accompanying authorities and who are in charge of the question of legality. The same of course applies to other cases that have occurred, in this case another one of our parties, the Croatian Party of Rights and the question of its councilors. Therefore, when in so many cases it appears to be a subject of public interest, then neither this Assembly nor the competent institutions can remain deaf and must take measures that are absolutely necessary and this Parliament must, of course, be at least in the court of the public otherwise, have much more interest in us than we are trained, what we eat, what we are, and how much sexual preferences we have. We'll get around to it. And for this reason, it is really necessary for us to form courts here and for the public on matters of which professional administration depends, effective and good local government, and with political corruption it is absolutely certain that we cannot have good and effective governments at any level, and the local level is certainly one of the fundamental levels and particularly important for what our society and our country is currently expecting, and this is decentralisation and functional and fiscal and each other. As for the problems of minorities, their representations and their roles that this was about, after these local elections. There have been some calls for an agreement between the ruling party and the minority representatives of the SDSS in particular. There were certain misunderstandings that quickly turned out to be unwarranted and most of those who at first did not understand it. A similar misunderstanding occurred in the case of solutions found in Sisak-Moslavina County where other parties also decided to have a productive, active political relationship with minority representatives and representatives. What happened in Sisak-Moslavina County is within the limits of the law and nothing illegal happened in the establishment of that assembly, nothing illegal. The second question is whether this maneuver or manipulation is carried out within the limits of the law should be allowed in all possible next places. If you ask me, no, because it would be harmful for both these political parties and for parties representing minorities and for the general relationship between majority and minority political groups, or ethnic minorities, as works of such possible online relations. And if, by any chance, I want to say from this pay phone, someone is trying to recycle that experience that happened in Sisak, and it happened with law, on a legitimate basis, then the representatives of minorities would certainly say no. Because it would devalue such a possibility. But since this one case is not enough for us to read the intention of a bad nature, then in this case we really cannot interpret this differently but rather as something that I have already said in one place. It is within the framework of the law a manoeuvre or allowed manipulation, but since it is good for local democracy then we will tolerate it. But if she turned into a practice we wouldn't, in all other places we could, we couldn't tolerate her. Then, not just us, then, of course, the central state office would have the right to speak about that crossing the limits of what the law actually provides for when it comes to minority representation. But since the office, the Central State Office for State Administration did not actually ensure the application of the law. By misreading and in this case as well as by misreading certain provisions regarding the representation of minority members, then actually the Central State Office itself closed its mouth around this case. And it's so good that people here who can and should have a lot more independence than people who work as clerks can discuss these things and create a political framework and a political climate to make them appear the way they happened after the local elections, they're absolutely not allowed anymore. And that this is an integral part of something that represents itself as the moral, personal integrity of any councilman, from municipal to county level or any representative in this House. That's how you can do it. There are some things that are tried in court. But there are some things that are tried in the neighborhood, in the public, in the tram, on the street when we go. I think that court is equally important, if not more important than this other one. All those who do not take care of this first court sooner or later will come before that final court, which is criminal or criminal. And so this interpretation makes sense to raise the sense of responsibility for this kind of court that we in our society must have, we must be able to develop. Because if we let certain members of our parties do that, local councilmen, and of course they'll say we're all the same. And that we are just as much more than we are, and then we can't see it or we're more skilled, so we hide it better than some unfortunate pensioner from Osijek who, for one reason or another, was under pressure and said, "I've had little left of my life anyway and I don't know what I've had in it in the last 15 years, I've mostly just lost so I guess I can use this now." But that's why it's really time to say that political parties can't. Parties, political parties cannot be space and create space for political corruption. Equally to those who are the object of corruption and those who generate, who cause and who create such corruption because they have power and have money. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46368	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Lalic, on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46369	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, a few colleagues and colleagues. Since we're under-exploited, there's too few of us in the hall. But the subject of today's debate is the interpretation directed by the SDP Representatives' Club, which refers to the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of the law and the exercise of the rule of law and the protection of democratic institutions and more foreigners as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Describing his proposal, the proposer points to the appearances marked by the 2005 local elections. Despite the broad explanation, not all examples indicate that various manipulations can alter the voter's will. The Constitution states that power comes from the people and belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens. The life of the constitutional principle is required to ensure the government, but this has not happened with us this year and that is where the government's responsibility stands. In an inadmissible number of cases, citizens wanted one and so voted, and political trade, pressures, blackmail, tempting offers and individual betrayals gave them another power. The number of such cases has formed among citizens the belief that their will is irrelevant, that political engineering will install the authority that someone else, and not them, will. Trust is running out not only of local but also of state authority that did not ensure respect for the political will of citizens. There is no confidence in democracy and the rule of law. There's no trust in the functioning of the state at all. In his report, the government says it remains committed to democracy and the rule of law, respect for all constitutional provisions and the application of the law. It's declarative, and practice is different. Practice refers to attempts to modify legal provisions through credible interpretation. The practice speaks of arbitrary and legally completely illogical interpretations of the law, all in function of changing power. Let us only remember the requirement for credible interpretation of certain provisions of the Law on Elections of Representative Authorities in Local Self-Government Units. The request was addressed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the aim of changing already established authorities in Sisak-Moslavina County. In the light of this request, there was a mix of interpretations of certain provisions of the Law on Local Elections and Constitutional Law governing the rights of national minorities. All in order to create legal frameworks for changing power. For the promoter, i.e., it is irrelevant for the Government to deny such interpretations the right given to the parties' laws to decide who will replace the elected councilman who resigned to his council seat. So the interpretation wants to change the law. The government even resorts to the interpretation of the legislator's intention, which is the Croatian Parliament, arguing that it was of exclusive will not increase the number of councilors even in the case of sub-representation or non-representation of national minorities. It even calls for an article that, in the context of credible interpretation, changes. The government is obliged to ensure that the law is implemented. In order to ensure proper implementation, he must know the law and know that the law has given the party the right to appoint a deputy councilman. The government must also know that minority representation must first be ensured from the list of elected councilors, and if not among the unselected candidates according to election success. And if that is not possible then additional elections are being held for national minorities. It is only because of the replacement of council members elected to represent national minorities that it is not possible to increase the number of council members. With a credible interpretation of the government's efforts to turn elected councillors from the regular lists into minority councils, but all with one goal is to change the citizens of the elected government. In this example, there is no indication of the declared commitment to democracy and the rule of law. Furthermore, the government says it has provided all the material and technical assumptions for the implementation of local elections and has taken all measures out of its jurisdiction to comply with the laws in the conduct of the elections. This means that the law also had to respect the municipal electoral commission, e.g. in Cerna Municipality. It is a duty to control the legality of running and the legality of the election of elected councilors. They have determined that all candidates have been nominated in accordance with the law, have established and published legally elected council members after the election, the council has been established, and the government's representative personally present by the constitution has confirmed the legality of the constitution. Nothing special, except that the local government was not at the will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of some local political powers. The newly elected power began to operate, the deadline for the constitution was up and after only 3.4 days, so after that 90-day period, the act came, no less, than the Central State Administration Office, which determines the illegality of the constitution, because the President of the Council had no residence in the municipality of Cern. Of course he couldn't have been just the president of the council, he couldn't have been even a candidate, he should have, but he didn't have to know, but he had to know the Electoral Commission that had first had to determine whether the candidates had a residence in the area of units of local self-government for which the councils were running. It is obvious that this failure would not bother anyone if the chosen authority, except for the people's will, was also at the will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government has declared the constitution illegal, appointed a commissioner, God forbid to appoint them as such commissioners, but there are no sanctions for neither the Electoral Commission nor the Government's representative. Only residents of Cern Municipality are sanctioned to pay for another election out of their modest budget. Gentlemen of the government, this does not prove true devotion to democracy and the rule of law. Of course, the blame for lack of responsibility has always been given to transfer over the Central State Administration Office, but the government is also responsible for its work. Without her permission, the law would not be widely interpreted, including the statutes and rules of procedure on the work of the council, not only to make it, just to change power. For example, Drenovci Municipality. The chosen authority of the people, but certainly not at the will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Council shall chair and manage its work by the President of the Council, and if it does not exist, it shall be replaced by the Vice-President of which he has power, and if he has not then authorised the Vice-President who has been elected first. At a council meeting, the president estimates that it is useful to set a 10-minute break to prevent riots. Part of the councilman goes to rest, the part stays in the room, the session is held by one of the council members, and they relieve the office of council president and appoint a new one. Coming back from a certain break, the president finds out he's no longer president. And all would indeed be comical if the opinion of the Central State Administration Office did not come, which says the council session and decision on the resolution of the existing and election of the new president of the council were legal. The office explains that the president of the council was unable to set a break immediately after the adoption of the agenda, the Office knows that the order was not violated and that the president was denied the right to assess and take measures to preserve order says that the council did not vote on the vote, here we are now violating the parliamentary law and we have determined the work at the station and we have not voted on it. It is obvious that in the Office not only do lawyers who in a strange way interpret the law, but also high-level council presidents who see and hear everything 300 kilometers away. With his actions, the office associated me with a picture of my neighbor, whom I was curiously watching, and she showed an old man with a long gray beard, and around his head was a big eye, a big ear and a book with a hand that wrote something, and I asked my neighbor what it was, and he told me God heard everything, God sees everything, and God knows everything. That is how our Central Office sees everything, hears everything and knows everything, but only when it is necessary to change the local government chosen by the will of the people by local authority, but at the will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is the behaviour of the Government Office, regardless of the mistrust of the people, not only in the existing government, but also in the system in general. The interpreter says that individuals have changed sides before, and in return they have received certain benefits. This calls for the case of Zagreb in 1997. It is true that there have been individual editions of the electoral body before, however, not as many and in as many numbers as this year. The characteristics of these elections are with an excessive percentage of citizens' abstinence, the betrayal of a large number of individuals, political trade and non-discipline coalitions. All this together can do nothing but bear nothing but the mistrust of the people, but also his bitterness. The government of the Republic of Croatia has not taken steps out of its jurisdiction to prevent a blow to the democratic institutions of the Republic of Croatia, it does not react to violations of the political will of citizens, even more than it can get the impression that they are being falsified and therefore citizens feel rightly deceived and powerless, because they have been under the impression that the Government through the Central Office wants to realise a desire that is the government at the level of the state such power in local and regional self-government. For the government, it is irrelevant that the law does not regulate it, and for the sake of instruction, I remind you that in the history of the Croatian people there was a law governing such an order of government. It was in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, and ultimately was the introduction of absoluteism. Thank you very much, it never happened again, no matter what profile absoluteism was, and therefore the club of the representatives of the HSS gives full support to the submitted interpretation, and as for the colleagues of HSS take history and you will read the tragic fate of HSS through the time of absoluteism. So much, but that's certainly a thing of knowledge, you know, it can't be improvised. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46370	Thank you. We had Bach's absoluteism. ... He wasn't at the time, because Bach was something before. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's the word "breathing" from it, Bach. ... In 1850, yes. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In 14,02, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46371	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State! On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I have prepared a speech, an initial speech concerning this interpretation, but unfortunately I will have to go quite differently as both the Committee on Law and the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives violates the rules of procedure, in breach of the applicable laws. Namely, what happened? It happened that the HDZ of Velika Gorica asked the chairman of the Legislative Committee to give an authentic interpretation of Article 7(1). Law on the selection of members of representative bodies and units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Me and the press at the Legislative Committee asked if we had a session on Monday or Tuesday if we discussed it. I said we didn't discuss it and that nothing from the board could be given. But unfortunately, yes. Today, here at this time I am in possession of the letter of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Law, signed on 9 November 2005, by the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives Florian Boras, a graduate lawyer where he gives an opinion on the case without having been to the committee meeting. Look out, without having been to the board meeting. So, the Croatian Parliament is writing the chapter of the Committee on Legislatives and the signing of the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives. What was that? What do we call it? But watch what happens next. No, it was not sent to the City of Velika Gorica, the City Council of President Zlatko Bukovec, but to the local HDZ. Watch out, local HDZ. How do you interpret this now? Is that what Mr. Palaric said all of you stick to your powers and work within your powers, or is now what I said correcting him that unfortunately those who need to stick to their powers do not stick to and others use powers they do not have. And for that reason, I ask you, President of the Croatian Parliament, as a smart and experienced lawyer and man who fought for the rule of law to take action as president of the Parliament so that something like this no longer happens. When I get a letter from the citizens, I finely write Pero Kovacevic as a parliamentary representative and sign it. That's how I send it. I'm not even sending it on behalf of the HSP Club. I send when we talk, is that right, which makes sense. But this is an eclectic example of this interpretation and please expand to Florian Boras. So this continues. And the worst part is that in the end, he says in his letter, so while the term of office of a member of the representative body rests on him all obligations and rights and the right to resign because his deputy is fulfilling them. And he supports this normally, the agreement between Palaric and Minister Suker to resolve the issue of Velika Gorica. So I don't know how now, at all, how to proceed with this debate. How to continue this debate when we see something happening from moment to time that is contrary to the law, which is contrary to the authority of someone we speak and hope for, and said Ivo Josipovic that he hopes as Mr Linic said that this debate will contribute to the fact that everyone and that this will no longer be. You see, Mr Ivo, you're wrong. It happens right after you said that part. So I think it's more illusory to discuss this interpretation when we have an example that says it's going to continue to work even worse than all these variations were. And by the way, I was gonna tell Mr. Damier Cain that he's not taking care of HSP, so let him take care of himself. And also, that whenever we see the title of the government's interpretation of the work in law enforcement and the exercise of the rule of law, we have, above all, in the light of our legislative projects that we have referred to to settle this situation, such as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Parties, such as the reform of electoral legislation, such as the issue of party financing, such as the issue of the transfer of power, such as the issue of conflict of interest, and we believe that it should all be in one place. But I'm saying, when we talk about the principle of rule of law, we think it's important to talk about and how conversion and privatisation has been done, and here we've put a bill of law to take away everything that's illegally acquired. And also, when it comes to corruption to pull it out, because this is about interpelation, it's about corruption, but corruption in a far larger form is happening somewhere else. Therefore, I will not be longer than I ask for the decisive and action and reaction of the President of the Parliament and of all of us not to allow this kind of thing at least in the Croatian Parliament. I think we have the strength and we have to do it so none of us can. We have been elected to the state of the Constitution and everything else, and the law, and when the chairman of the Legislative Committee violates that, what to say next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46372	Thank you very much. Would you be kind, Mr. Kovacevic, so please, you don't have to do this right now, but copy that for me to see it. SDP's respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46373	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague! The SDP Club, whose representatives are also proposing this interpretation, believes that its purpose is not only awareness4 of this problem, not only the seriousness of this problem but also the one we want to express our concern with political life, political parliamentism and the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. Why? Not only with the goal of talking here together, to come to some conclusions that are generally acceptable but that this reality that requires change is inevitable and changing. Namely, a whole series of events are difficult to list now and to bring down one after another so that all the depths of the political crisis and the political misery in which Croatia is located may be seen. Sanader's pro-European program is flawed, suffering shortcomings. He's missing just the main measure. He does not lack a declaration of speech, verbalism in this campaign, but what is lacking in state policy, it is for all of us to show our own examples and to remove uncompromisingly such persons to eradicate these phenomena. It's the only way we can be authentic and recognizable in public and show that we really mean what we all say more or less. In fact, just the local elections that were the first important political news have shown exactly the crisis of our system, have shown that it is against the law often and by playing the express norms or the spirit of the law to change, alters the will of citizens, and that citizens are thus impoverished and humiliated when their property is taken away and traded with their votes, perhaps often the only thing that many have left. And why is that? To often preserve someone's privileges. So is the market that still has problems with us, which hasn't worked, but has worked out the market for votes where the unloved bags, votes, where exactly the quotations of them are very high. And what appears in public, here we are today from the mouth, from the mouth of Mr. Secretary of State, we have had the opportunity to hear that Europe has no major objections to the functioning of certain segments of government in Croatia. That is in principle said, but immediately afterwards, it was said from the European Commission's mouth that it is causing serious concerns precisely about the functioning of the public administration. And that's what the subject is and what's the main theme of our SDP interpretation. So it's totally inconsistencies what you've shown with reality. You see, it's a trade that, after local elections, and it's a cynical public trade where just some political segments tried to affirm just as much as they unloaded and it was a rule of conduct. Yes... Some kind of intimate circle is not exactly what it had to be, but it's something that's desirable, thus showing determination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do we need such determination in politics? Where almost no means are foreign to achieve a goal, naked after power. As if it were something completely, completely natural, somewhere the Constitutional Law on the Rights of the National Minority and the Law on Elections for the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government is not respected. On the contrary to what you say, Mr. Secretary of State, and that's the case, here's what I don't want to stay at the level of really naked specifics, but maybe this copy is a clear witness to what kind of instruction you're giving as a central state office to local self-government units. True, this was signed by President Ivo Sanader, but this was prepared in your office. That you do not respect the list of voters rather than to apply the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, you say that the relevant official results of the census are and you see the argument. Since the voters' lists are not arranged for the reason that the residence records are not arranged. So will we, on the basis of such, as you say, unsettled lists of voters and local elections have been held before and before the presidential elections and before that state elections. And then the dead cold ones claim on individual committees that although the constitutionality of this conclusion is being questioned in the Constitutional Court, that you will willingly even accept what the court says, whether it is the Administrative in certain situations or constitutional ones. So must the courts force this government and the individual bodies to work legally? Well, the court has always been established as an excess, as a last resort to the behaviour of undisciplined citizens. But not in the rule of illegal government behavior. However, what we are and what we ourselves are responsible for, it is the rule of law, not all truth, not every weight nor all responsibility on the bodies of the state government. That is why we are all invited to act for the benefit of the citizens, to achieve social solidarity, political correctness, in order to comply with civilization standards, but all of this is starting to collapse again in Croatia. It's always a very gentle plant, and if you leave fast veins. And that's why Croatia is once again in the accelerated social entropy part of the social entropy, Croatian society is once again becoming an anomic society. And then why this impelation? Because in the SDP Club we think it is in the interest of citizens and in the interests of politicians themselves to make politics, because this is simply no longer going to be rehabilitated. But not only on verbal level, because without change, effective changes will not be achieved. We all claim that politics is important, and a society that does not care about it only puts itself in danger. It is therefore essential that policy be restored to its value. Politics enters everyone's life, the fate of a man, at all levels. And therefore, let us not be surprised at the latest research which, apart from the decline of the standards of citizens, the issue of corruption considers legality, or the legality of the conduct of units of local self-government. It is in 60% of respondents how they announced today's media of great interest to the citizens of Croatia. Of course, because in the local self-government unit, the government and local self-government are now being brought to life, it is experiencing how effective or ineffective the government is. And that's why the image created in politics requires that it be reconsidered. Because the policy action is meant for it is indeed and noblely such people who are really fighting for what politics can and must deserve encouragement. Many of the affairs that have particularly surfaced since local elections in connection with some people or parties are causing accusations, cause doubts, prejudices and dissension. They are then, since they are not, just not sanctioned, but not taken into account by the government, then they are transferred to the entire political world even though they refer only to some people and some behaviors. Of course it's all undermining the citizens' trust together. And such intransparency creates and opens the door to the rebirth of some and totalitarian ideologies where the whole world of politics and political parties is polluted. It then creates a sense of apathy, leads to hatred, revolt, exclusion, and democracy is threatened even in its foundations. Therefore, the general good must be the subject of our common tireless effort to make lasting progress. The nobility of a political obligation that a person assumes is undeniable, and the abuses and abuses that arise should not represent a tree that hides the forest of those who undermine, or those who, unlike those who persist in the cause of righteousness and for the common cause, invest their strength for solidarity by understanding such activity as a service and not as a means to satisfy their own desires. Pointing to corruption... and to our own task is to point out political corruption does not mean to condemn politics or individual politicians in general, but rather to justify the need to make such statements and to exclude them from such a world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the contrary, it is precisely the affirmation of politics and the particular interest of younger people in political action, in political action. That is why there are funds, not only legal but also moral to condemn all of them and sanction policy, and that is, first and foremost, before USKOK and before the second, political parties are invited to act in this, to condemn and deny victory, victories that are not so. Why? And why the tough defenses in some environments and positions, and they're not rare because they're not excess, but they've already become a rule, the position until yesterday faced and very breathy fighters to finally realize that there's a power to be divided like cake or watermelon. And that's why such behaviours where everything is allowed, where trade is apparently told to the public, where it's not the government's office that doesn't sanction it, the central office, but directly the government's officials, then it's some kind of heart attack of the entire political system and democracy itself and political pluralism itself. In our court, it is very dangerous for the preservation of political parliamentaryism. It sort of introduces some soft totalitarianism where everything is allowed and where it is polluted, where political parties are polluted. That's why this interpretation is calling for a change in action not so much of our verbalizations here where we all talk very much rather than real change for people because so much is true for people in this human world. And if we are effective in this so much and testify with our own lives, above all, the party life will be so trusted. Because the impartiality of public affairs is very important and in the general interest not only in the sense of whether the Penal Code is violated? Well, here too, so that's where we disagree. All the things that didn't USKOK, not sanctioned and initiated, and everything that the court didn't rightly condemn has no corruption. That's one big delusion. Therefore, Croatia would be among the first countries, and the situation is far, far different if I did not speak the other way around. Right where corruption is poorly sanctioned, there is a suspicion of corruption or public perception of corruption. And that's why it's not enough for someone political, for some official to claim he's not convicted. He's not convicted we can't do anything to him. It is precisely an invitation to the purity of political action that includes a call for cleanliness and for greater standards and standards of conduct. For every ordinary citizen who is not even employed, he is almost not convicted if he wants to compete somewhere. I therefore believe that special attention should be paid to our preventive behaviour, to the application of preventive laws. That's why it's very tragic that we have the least answers from the Ministry right now. At least respect for the basic anti-corruption law, the public information law. There's little time to point out... Surely in their debates individual MPs how all the State Office has been involved because when it is not sanctioned, when it does not respond in a timely manner, it is not even an assistant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's an accomplice to the illegalities of local self-government units. I will mention to you Mr. Palaric again Zadar, Vrhovina, Galovac in another way where the laws are not respected according to certain units of local self-government because the spirit of the sentence is still valid: "We will not allow the opposition situation" In Zagreb and elsewhere. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46374	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46375	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, the incorrect allegation of the political crisis is the misery in which Croatia is located. Evidence of local elections. So we're finally talking about four cases here. 1% is 6. Make it 2% of 12 cases, but 2% is extremely small and fortunate that it's because we're going to be easy to sanction. However, he should not be unhappy if political ratings polls are sometimes in our favor. Well, the media will fix that mistake already. In your case, colleagues already have. However, it is true that the desired sense of political crisis and misery promotes exactly this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46376	Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić. HSLS and DCLS representatives' club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46377	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. They say as I like to say to myself that literature is my only experience, the experience of the world, and it could be pathetic like this and then quote and say to Remarck, "In the East or the West, nothing new," so neither do we have much new. We could also say that they are a miracle, that poets are a wonder in the world, and so our choices reportedly now became a wonder in 2005 in the world, and we will try very hard to find a cure, and the cure is actually beneath our own feet and then react how, when it suits us how, when we are more or less unhappy. What we unfortunately do not want to admit or avoid is to admit that the whole problem is actually in the system. And the system actually made everything that's happening to us possible, and now we're very surprised, and we expect people to be better than what the system allows them to do. And the system is allowing them to do something like this right now. And that's not even happening since 1997 since the Zagreb crisis. Such examples unfortunately have much earlier than normal since when the system, when the rules of the game were established. People use those opportunities that game rules give them, and they act that way. Sometimes it escalates less or more, and we can say in 2005 that, in fact, we have exceeded every measure and that what we have been able to do, which, in the end and the media are very much more sensitized and now these things suddenly become whited and we are now very surprised. I wouldn't exactly want to relativize offending anyone. I'm not one of those people. Every effort and work on this interpretation I respect and indeed that, every measure is exaggerated and something needs to be changed. We had this situation that we went somewhere right after those elections with the Law on the Direct Selection of Mayors, Commissioners and Mayors. Now I can... to say and to pretend to be very important and very wise and smart and to say that, let's just say that we suggested it a long time ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, we had some chance to take advantage of it in 2001, so that didn't happen. Now, and now, again, that wouldn't be the subject of why in 2001, it didn't happen when the relationship in the coalition was 4:2. And that is, these are the facts that we can now have, have this or that kind of relationship but in 2001 it didn't go because, unfortunately, within the coalition at the time, we are also a man that I highly appreciate and respect, professors first of all but also Mr. Stjepan Ivanisevic's man were determined to reason between some people and, among other things, me and him about what's better or what's worse? I claimed that the crisis field would increase if it remained this way. He claimed it wasn't increasing. The same way that I didn't have any, how do we say those arguments that would show that I was right, and he didn't convince me either, but that's the fact that since 2001 it's actually going on and in 2005 we've come to this point, to what we have, and I'm saying now we're about as very, very surprised and as no legal state works. Although we have to admit you know these things aren't easy to prove, it's not easy to prove. And we have put up with one, one interpretation of this, about this Jump, and in the end I had a feeling when I'm being questioned that it's my fault, not the ones who did it, even though it's a public secret and I don't know it's been talked about not only around the world, but it's been talked about all over Croatia. Well, there were later in the media some statements where people say clearly and loudly by name and last name that they were some money, that they were offered. That they refused. Some, by that logic, were likely to receive so on. And you know what gets most tragic? The most tragic knowledge is that the largest number of Ossetians who met me later said, "Why didn't you give more?" He said, "Why didn't you take away a little bit and give them to others?" And then get out now, so why is it, why is it like that? And it needs to be changed because it's good that we really have this interpretation on that side, that we're sensitized, that in some way we think about it that we can't go on like that. What's the result of all this we've got? So abstinence, indifference, loss of trust. What bothers me most is that we're all the same. Well, we're not all the same, someone's taller, someone's shorter, someone's got blue eyes, someone's brown, someone's bald, someone's not. So in politics, they don't exist, I don't agree to be exactly the same, but that's the result of all of this that we're ourselves, these 12-ac, 13-year-olds how there are these rules of play this system that we've made ourselves available. And let's be honest now. And in this interpretation, it also actually prevails in a selective approach. The lab won't remember, we won't remember Knin, we won't remember any other, smaller places, but we'll remember where we feel like we're being cheated. And that's the one, and we can't get away from it, I mean that's, that's what we are, that's just the way we are, that's our mental circuit, and that's why we don't really have to be overly resented. Even though we say we can't solve the crisis, we can't ask for catharsis unless we're actually able to face what's happening on our own. And then some times the situation, I don't know, in Split suits us, in Osijek a little bit less and then that's it, and then we actually have a double approach and it feels like it. It feels in every step of ours, and let's not take this responsibility away in some way because I say, alone, after all, we're involved, some more, some less. And no one's innocent of that. There's no party that could say for itself that she's innocent, and it starts with my liberal party. And she's not every time at the height of the assignments and we really can now. I agree, political parties have great responsibility and, but sometimes when they come into a situation, this private-public interest or public-private. I'm almost convinced that every time these private interests prevail and there is no party president and that authority that can't convince an individual that, I don't know, the coalition with a person X is actually a real one, that it's a bad or a good thing, depends really on these very private-public relations. I say, which unfortunately, this privacy that has nothing to do with liberalism always and unfortunately wins every time. But what it is, I think it's well-absorbed in this interpretation, and that's really what happens with that kind of chosen local leadership. Very often, in fact, it's a real game or it's the ones from the shadows. There are indeed mayors, mayors in the shadow who, who participated, who were logistical support throughout these actions. Who have given these amounts that are spoken of, but who very quickly ask that this service of theirs to charge nicely and then they run the game and it is very soon to be seen. A certain tender, certain purchases, to be very skilled furniture, because the guys are still very nervous, they don't have time to wait a long time and they want to make their service as fast as possible. And it's actually the greatest danger and then really politics becomes, political elections become a farce. We are the ones who play, who expose ourselves to this very experience and the risk of choice, to fall hard words, to deny yourself precisely from your public and private actions. And actually these real players, they stay in the shadows, stay in the shadows and actually very quickly and skillfully, skillfully say, collect their logistics and their participation in something where they really participate from the lowest initiatives. And that's true, and that's what we as a society, without regard for political parties, regardless of associations, have to face, that is exactly not something good and that is not a provision for Croatia's future. I've always, always been a liberal when I went into politics I insist on the independence of institutions. And I mean, their democratisation, their autonomy. Because, like, Jelicin failed precisely because he thought that only by solving economic reform and economic problems could solve the process... He was wrong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If there's no foothold, if there's not exactly institutions that are democratic, which are independent, then the whole story falls into the water. That's how we do it. It's finally gotta happen. That there really is no need for any institution that is independent of politics to ask policy what to do. And that's what's happening to us, unfortunately, what's happening again, what's being generated, and what's always always kind of bringing us back. And what we ourselves, too, are then allowed to do very often and comment on something that we should not, by definition, create as politicians, because it can all be someone's pressure, part of an ambience, an atmosphere that just creates situations like this that are far from normal, from modern, from civil, from European and even human. And on that side, this interpretation doesn't need to be relativated, the one for shade, what I'm saying is, which is to me as a man, a colleague, a friend with people who do all of this, who, among other things, have done it, in the end, we're on the same boat, which is not more honest for me, which is not even the courage to admit, so we're in it. That's what we're in, and that's how it is. Because sometimes you can't just control, I don't know, a person A in the city of X and actually see how that system to change those rules of the game is that, in the rules of the game, the elements, the mechanisms that will come to a minimum. We can't get away from exactly that, from these human weaknesses that only the next elections can sanction. But no matter how we forget it, that forgetfulness is actually the greatest ally of exactly this kind of work, then actually people think very little about what they might lose in the next election. But the public should be the one who will in some way be corrective and who in some ways, like in Rome, will raise or lower his thumb. But to know exactly who he was when he did what he did and who he was when he bought and why he bought and how he bought. And after all, it's very important how much it costs. Not only what I say, it gave person A to be, to achieve the majority in the representative body, but what it all meant after that for the life of one city, one county, one municipality. At the end of the country as a whole. We can re-relativate this and say it's 4, 5 or 10 cases. I'm afraid that's a little bit more than that, that's more like curding. And regardless of one case, we as politicians would have to react and try really to create one, so to speak, such rules of the game that would make one of these behavior impossible. Well, I don't know, today on the pillar of shame is one, the other or the third party, but, I'm saying, I'm afraid that's it, that there are only nuances and that more or less all of us with more or less energy involved. And the same thing that we must praise in the interpellation, especially in the exclusion of fellow Josipovic, is that... for morale. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because really, without that moral substance, there is no politics. As strange as that may seem, my kind of political mentor and the man I learned a lot about politics from, unfortunately the late Vlado Gotovina said, politics is the thing when those who are so involved in politics are. Otherwise, it is truly an honorable job, an honorable job, and indeed, thanks to policy, it is possible to change in society. It is only through political parties, through politics they can make certain changes. Let's not have, nor is it a great society that only actually is a follower of it, but still of us here who pass laws, of those who enforce these laws and those who have a fatal, fatal vision that they can follow all these things, we are the ones who change relationships. Therefore, indeed, we return this trust to that morale, to that and to the elevation of the work of politicians, and not really here to be ashamed of you, to be ashamed of me not knowing, you must suffer this very generalization, generalization, and the fact that here we are dealing with this business which, unfortunately, has been unscrupulous and which has fallen to the lowest possible branches at this moment. So, in this sense, if we don't change the Law on the financing of political parties, financing to make it transparent, that the principality is not the only moment but that there are really rules of the game to start all parliamentary parties from similar positions, that these donations must be public. That they kind of stimulate us if it's right for those who stand behind a particular political option, political parties to know they're doing it, not to do it in secret. The Law on Political Parties, the Law on Local Self-Government, that is, the direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors, I'm afraid we're not going to do anything, that we're going to be here again, I say, when I say in the East, or the West, nothing new. And that's just that we might meet again after some elections, some local choices to rediscover all of those elements that we've identified today. That we're actually missing them, and that's inadmissible because this democracy isn't even young. It's been going on for 15 years, but still, the world hasn't started with us and yet certain solutions and certain standards that have been reached before, yet we are their heirs and there's no reason to think that everything was bad. And really, come on, let's try it with one required dose of seriousness and realize it. That of what is beautifully written in the Constitution, it is not only a principle but also a principle that will be brought to life in everyday political practice. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46378	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46379	Well, Mr. Kramarić made a series of false and incorrect allegations. Here, I'll only limit myself to one. I know that Mr. Kramarić is very unhappy and vain because he failed to become mayor of Osijek during the last constitution, but this does not justify the way he shows here, that this was achieved by some kind of conspiracy, a fraud. I would remind him, however, that in the past elections he led a list of as many as four parties. That he barely managed to get more than 10% of the vote and that's the only reason mathematically correct why Mr. Kramaric can't be the mayor of Osijek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46380	Dear Representative Furio Radin on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46381	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues. When one such document comes, the interpretation of non-political immorality, about political call it free prostitution, then of course everyone tends to support one such document. However, we need to talk a little deeper about such actions and we need to talk with a little more facts about what politics in Croatia means today, which means political immorality, which means political ethics, or its violation. The National Minority Representatives' Club calls the whole document, as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, which is all true, to the least extent partial. Interpletion on political corruption has its own justification if it comes from civil society, sometimes if it comes from a church when it, for example, speaks of the sin of structure and when it comes from academic society. If, in other words, it came from a part of society above and outside party policy, when, however, the sermons on unscrupulous settlements disabling the will of voters, as it says in the document, comes from the ranks of political parties, then gentlemen of distinguished colleagues, friends, then the first word that comes to mind is demagogy. Parties in their nature tend to hide their dirty laundry and extract other people's dirty laundry, just someone else's. And in that all the luck is to rotate and then go outside dirty laundry of all the parties, depending on who's in power and who's in opposition. The only sure result is that all parties tend to trade, all parties non-transparent, all parties tend to sell. You're right, gentlemen, who have signed the interpretation when you speak of political prostitution. She really does exist. You are biased, however, when under quotes you attribute virtue only to certain parties they have, of course. You know, I remember every time, and that was mentioned earlier, Mr. Kramaric when he spoke from this pay phone Vlado Gotovina about politics being moral. That it should be of all human activities the most moral human activity. The morale of politics is reflected in clear programmes, in transparent action and in all of that, in the whole party model that they are not today. It's all about political parties today instrumentally. When they talk about political corruption, it is only and most often to cover up their political, political corruption of their parties. It's only when we talk non-transparently about spending funds, it's mostly to cover non-transparentity in spending its resources. You remember that controversy that was about and which you were so good at, as I would say, led with so much zeal against independent representatives just because there are few and because they are independent, about when finally the representatives of minorities and independent representatives could use as you have always used funds. When they could use them, about it being, I went to audit. And I saw what reports the parties gave and what reports the independent representatives gave. The parties provided reports from one and a half pages, and independent representatives gave a report that was so large. With every account. The party has not submitted any, neither party has submitted any invoices. Independent MPs filed all the accounts, and never in history happened, never in history did it happen that the review entered the parties and watched their accounts. Never. Think about it when you talk about intransparency. Gentlemen, when it comes to unprincipled coalitions, then they reach maximum, I think. Because parties only, they always just allude to other people's coalitions. In the coalition between the SDP and the HSP, on this experiment, gentlemen, I think the only relevant thing has been said only now by the director of the Centre... If Israel must intervene to put the values of antifascism in place until the left thought sees them, then forgive me, then it is certainly not the virtue of the left mind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And after the SDP coalition with HSP, what do you expect next? If someone thinks it is, they can't say we've reached the bottom, they're wrong. A national coalition test balloon has already been launched between the SDP and HDZ, after which everyone could close the store, go home because it would be the end of any policy. A successor to the Socialist Union and a system where elections would finally be superfluous and finally, of course, that's cynicism and irony, we wouldn't have to spend any more money on elections. Fellow MPs, of course, would then have to be removed from the electoral law by those who are intruding, and these are minority representatives. Unfortunately, these two parties at one point, at least at one point were inclined to publicly abolish national minorities from Parliament, amend the Constitutional Law and amend the electoral law. It happened no more than four or five months ago. I'm sure that idea will come back to this House. I'm sure that in this whole good co-operation between the parties who sue each other, then this one, so that in the end, everything survives, is disturbed by the very representatives who are independent and the representatives of the national minorities. The other people are confused. Hundreds of performances are coming to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and we are helpless. People in politics, gentlemen, don't believe in either position or opposition anymore, and that's terrible, because when people don't believe in politics anymore, when they lose confidence in politics, they lose faith in democracy. Such interpretation at the end of the day, gentlemen and friends are not too high, but we are still expecting an interpretation that will talk about the failures of those who submit it, and then only about other people's failures, because it is only so that we may finally get close to the truth about political immorality and political prostitution in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46382	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46383	I understand that Mr Furio Radin, as an independent representative, comes from these anti-party positions, but it is absolutely unacceptable when he says that all parties are ready to sell, that they are non-transparent in their actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46384	There is no correction to an unacceptable quote, but to an incorrect one. You're saying it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46385	Yeah, okay. Unacceptably and incorrectly that all parties are ready for sale, non-transparent in action, that they are corrupt. Fortunately, that is not the case, at least I speak for the SDP, because if that were the case at all, parliamentary democracy would not be necessary, but some of the parties that are buying, which are corrupt, could rule for the next 40 and 80 years and at the same time be inadmissible and incorrectly questioning the democratic and anti-fascist character of the SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46386	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46387	I'm also correcting Mr. Radin's incorrect quote that always boldly when he says something, so he mentions HSP to clear out. Let him take care of himself, for he was in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46388	It's not. And the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46389	He's on, so I'm correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46390	Mr. Radin is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46391	He was in power before and before, and HSP was the only one in this local election in all places to go on its own. So HSP's the only one in this election locals at all levels went on their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46392	Mr. Radin didn't say that you didn't go on your own.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46393	Well, I'm correcting that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46394	But he didn't, so you can't fix it, he didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46395	I'm correcting that all parties are ready to sell, that's what I'm saying, that's what I'm fixing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46396	Thank you. We've finished discussing the clubs, we're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What is this impelation about? About one national disgrace, about one store, about the trade below every decent level, about the cancellation of the voter's will, about insulting these voters, about that. And what's with all the impellating? For what? Well, after what we hear Florian Boras did, obviously, nothing. It's totally no matter what they tell me here, it doesn't matter what conclusions we make here, it's to teach the cat to swim. While we are here talking about extreme immorality and trade, political mandates, the parliamentary mandates of Florian Boras signed the document as chairman of the board, without calling for the right of one such trade and seeking to legalise one such trade. Then what are we doing here? Can Florian Boras and those who brought Florian Boras to this place convince themselves of anything? After he dared to make me doubt it. What confidence in politics and politicians can citizens have? What's that? They've got a little, almost nothing, and the bigger one I think I can't even have. It would be illusory to think that trust could be greater after these local elections in 2005 and after all that has happened since the elections. This is where all the misery of Croatian politics was revealed. Croatia's policy has never been to lower branches. These things have never happened before, and in these proportions they have never been, and that is why this interpretation is obviously in vain, which enters deaf ears. Have they ever been like this before? It was, we remember '97. The year President Tudjman said we would not suffer in Zagreb the opposition situation, and he was not concerned that the citizens wanted the opposition situation. He didn't want her. It's like he took care of what the citizens wanted. What does he care, he doesn't, wants HDZ to be in Zagreb in power, so two councillors Bukovic and Šporer were bought, their names will remain remembered in Croatian history. They are synonyms for prostitution in politics, synonyms, will be sent to their children, and their grandchildren will be mocked for wearing the last names of bukovic and Šporer. One is rewarded.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46398	Don't be a good representative, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46399	I can, I can do that, I'll do that, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46400	Don't mention it, it's ugly to mention kids.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46401	It's ugly what they did, it's ugly. One was awarded to the director, the place in the hospital, the other I don't know what. That was their salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46402	But it's not their children's fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46403	But you know, it's not Quisling's kids' fault their father was a Quisling. No, but they have to bear that name. Well, you see, that's what political prostitution is all about. I've already suggested I don't know how to legalize prostitution at all, so then pass a law on it, so within that law, write one chapter of political prostitution, so that at least they pay taxes when they're dealing with it, so when they make money, at least Minister Schuker has something to do with it, because like this, they take money, they don't pay anyone anything. There's no state. Well, at least that would make sense. Be careful, the local elections were before these in 2000 and 2001, so before the local elections, something like this never happened. What happened in those 2001 elections? Well, the parties coalitions went a little worse than in the 2000 parliamentary elections. That's logical, it's not just in Croatia. Well, that happens everywhere in the world, if you win at national level then you get a little worse in local elections, maybe you lose local elections. This also happened to coalition parties and did not occur to them that such a worse election success would go to change the purchase of councilmen. It didn't occur to them. Now in 2005, HDZ won at national level. Well, local elections came through, but I guess someone didn't go there as expected, and he remembered that handsome Tudjman sentence, "We won't beat the opposition situation." Not in Zagreb, you could no longer be in Zagreb, there you were beaten by hamlets. But in other environments. So where can we go to the store, let's go shopping? Who's the buyer in all these cases, who's the buyer? HDZ. Who's the salesman? Mostly parties, MPs or politicians, council members of the Croatian pensioners' party, mostly. But there are others. But the buyer is always HDZ. Money bags, money bags are mentioned. From Gorica, poor Brdek says they offered him a suitcase of money, that he saw the money, that the case was opened, that the money was inside. Then he said they only showed him a suitcase with no money. What would a suitcase show him? And so. And the highlight of everything. Yeah, well, that even speaks of that man's intelligence and everything, about morality. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, that doesn't make sense to talk about morale. It doesn't make any sense. They're not immoral, they're amoral. The top one is the Croatian government minister Vukelic, signing such a sale contract with one of the councillors, the Croatian government minister. What happens after that when it comes out in the paper? What did the government do? So what would any government in any democratic country do? Normally, she would change at least that minister or force him to resign for health reasons like the foreign minister for health reasons. But anyway, he doesn't stay a minister. He does not remain a minister after it is revealed that he participated in such a bottom-down political trade. He disgraced himself, he disgraced the party he belonged to, he disgraced the government in which the minister, he disgraced the state he represents as a member of the government. He embarrassed politics at all. So whether they have a place in prison or not, the State's attorneyship and courts determine it, but in politics there must be no place for them. He can't. And as long as this government, Secretary of State Palaric, as long as this government does, at least such ministers don't extricate and move out of politics, that government will support this kind of trade. It'll be a public opinion. It's my view of it, but then it'll be the public's attitude. If you're not going to deal with your office minister, then you're supporting it, maybe you ordered it. Not you, the government-dominated party. So you know what the consequences will be? The abstinence in the local elections is big anyway. People aren't even going out to that local election anymore. That they go to the polls because someone they chose to sell that mandate so that Brdek could make money or someone else, so they're not crazy. So why would someone make a fool out of them? Well, these are the citizens of this country with constitutional rights to the local self-government with which they are traded so bestially. And now that a single interpretation is offered that requires no one to resign, not the government's fall, which calls on the government to declare at least a majority HDZ party, let's at least declare this conclusion to support what even the club's representative said, so it's acceptable for us to do so. But we'll see about the vote. You won't support this either. You know why? That's because you're okay with it. That's what you do, that's what you agree with. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46404	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Not entering the opinions and the right to the opinion of Mr. Stazic to present it, but he did step down, injured Article 214 of our Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 5 and 6 where he insulted representatives by the name and last name of Mr. Boras, as well as by bringing about prostitution, immorality with representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and our party. So I think he hurt the Rules of Procedure in his act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46406	I really didn't hear him mention a respected representative of Boras. All right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of an incorrect quote, we have five. The Honorable Representative of the Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46407	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The whole exhibition of Mr. Stazic is actually an incorrect and wrong thesis and claim and I will only quote him that citizens do not have almost any confidence in politics because politics is a kind of prostitution. I don't think that's true at all, we at HDZ think politics is an honorable matter and that it can be through politics and that it is the duty of politicians to serve their people. But he must warn him that he cannot give us lessons from the Croatian Democratic Community when I am, when it comes to... At the local level, you don't respect the results of the election, so now you have cases of repetition, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if you are talking about the rules of democracy, it cannot stand because I say you do not recognise the results of your own party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46408	Thank you. I beg you, let's not argue at the institution of correction. Correction of the incorrect quote Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46409	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Stazic states that all the misery of Croatian politics is contained in the interpretation. I've been watching, I've been writing, I've been reading. There's no such thing as interpellation. Interpletion in Professor Josipovic's opening speech is shown in a completely different light, and according to your colleague Stazic, it is a scenario for average Balkan film, prostitution, corruption, there is still little blood missing from rats. Maybe such a scenario will buy out I don't know "Gavella" Drama Theatre, definitely not "Kerempuh" but the Parliament and those you're about to give the text to, so the public certainly won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46410	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46411	Thank you. A colleague, Stazic, said Minister Vukelic had concluded a sales contract with the City Council council council council councilman Mr. Capa. That's not true. It is an agreement between the Croatian Retired Party council president and the president of the HDZ City Committee to ensure that the retirement population in the town of Karlovac is transported free of charge by city transport, to reduce the waiting period for specialist checks in agreement with the Karlovak hospital, to increase the amount for Christmases to pensioners. And it is also agreed that through the city budget funds are provided for the work of the Croatian Party of Retired Persons. We all know that representative bodies make a decision on the amount of funds to finance parties. And I personally don't see anything controversial about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46412	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46413	Dear Vice President, Rule 209 of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46414	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46415	Article 209(2) You can't correct the truth with a lie. Article in that contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46416	Dear Representative Stazic, he said once and the president of the parliament that I or whoever holds the presidency cannot decide exactly what is and what is incorrect. Dear Representative Sopčić corrected your claim that a representative of the government made an agreement with a member of the city council of Karlovac and as far as I understand the correction of the incorrect allegations is that it was done by the president of the party and did not... This is what you were talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't think Article 209 was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46417	You're not giving me any means of saying that. Okay, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46418	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46419	Thank you. It is not true that in 2001 or 02, what happened now, according to MP Stazic. Namely, and then we witnessed that one party... Got 6.7 mayors thanks to lobbying, trade and political skills, which certainly was not the voter's will. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is important, Mr. Stazic, is that your party has promised voters a change of the Electoral Law on direct elections. You changed the election law in 2001, but you did not give citizens direct elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46420	Your Honor, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46421	What is this impelation? Actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46422	But don't! ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46423	... Actually, it's just another hoax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46424	Don't, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46425	This is another hoax, this is another hoax.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46426	Don't, don't provoke the left side... a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't argue under an institution to correct an incorrect quote, I beg you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46427	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, what I wanted to correct in the good part has already been said by Mr. Sopcic, but one thing has to be said. An agreement with a retired representative was signed by the president of the city committee, not by the minister. He signed it as the president of the city board. On the other hand, it is an agreement that provides pensioners with something, an agreement or a similar agreement that many future coalition partners sign to agree on the way in which they will behave. And the only thing Mr. Stazic said was that with these alleged electoral fraud, the buyer is always HDZ. It won't be like that! If there are customers, there are customers on other sides. I will give you an example of a small municipality in my county where in that municipality which has 1500 voters of 11 mandate 6 has won HDZ all individually one, two, and you would not believe the head of the municipality became a person, bearer of an independent list, which by the number and letter received 57 votes in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46428	Thank you. Apparently, your debate disagrees with the esteemed representative Lucin. He asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46429	Thank you very much. Well, I have to admit that, in a large part, I agree almost entirely with Mr. Stazic's exposure but I don't, but I can't accept one fact because it seems to me that Mr. Stazic mentioning prostitutes in this context actually insulted them. Because if we remember and remember prostitutes are male or female persons who are most often forced to sell their bodies to survive. While political conversionism or selling and moving to other parties is actually I don't know, object or anything else. So on some moral scale, it seems to me that prostitutes are far above political converts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46430	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46431	The difference is, the difference is probably also in price, and in this trade contract that was later changed, you know Mr. Lucino, which Mr. Vukelić is not in the role of minister, but in the role of not knowing what kind of party as a double personality, so half of the Minister's brain did not approve of him signing it, and the other half of the party forced him to sign it in the first version of 20,000, at least 20 thousand kunas per month. And what was later corrected by the HDZ bench and the instructions, it was later changed, it was later changed. The original contract speaks of 20 thousand kuna a month. It's about money. And Mr. Lucin, you're absolutely right, it's really offensive, with the prostitutes you were talking about comparing Capan, Brdek and Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46432	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Stazić spoke very bitterly and dramatically about the purchase, so I would warn him that there are also purchases in his backyard and that he should first look back at his yard. However, since he thinks that in his backyard everything is fine, I will warn him of only one example that we know very well in my community where the head of his party first has to buy a list with which to go to elections, because there are no members other than himself in the entire municipality, so buy a caterer to whom he will eat, so buy people to whom his children will be hired, and buy their voters, so buy a whole football game because he puts a leader on the list so that they can vote for him. So to buy an electoral body gives scholarships to students without any criteria, without regulations, without any rules, so whether they're regular students, whether they're extracurricular students, whether they're twins, whether they're petitioners, there's no connection he'll give everyone, so they're not his money. So he buys pensioners, so he gives them every year before Christmas money, so he buys everyone he can buy so he can put himself in the lead in the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46434	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Stazic. I really don't know what community this is about, which is your community, or what SDP is about. But I certainly know that you understand absolutely nothing of this interpretation, I'm sure of it. This is not about how someone treats the electoral body to be elected or to talk about how someone draws up a list that goes through the elections one way or the other, but this is about when a list is drawn up and when voters decide on it and when they choose the local government, that then after these elections, someone comes after all with a bag of money and buys a finished foreign mandate. That's what this is about, and that shame that has nothing to do with lobbying, or gathering voters, or any of what you're talking about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46436	We are going to the next debate, the distinguished representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46437	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I think we must be quite deeply concerned about the state of morality in Croatia, because, unfortunately, immorality rules in all the pores. In all the pores and today we have seen that even in the Croatian Parliament and that unfortunately abuses his powers and president of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, and we should be the ones who are determined to stand against all this. Who will fight for the functioning of the rule of law, for the functioning of the Croatian judiciary, for the responsible work of the state administration, for the responsible work of the government, but unfortunately we give our examples to the people. And no wonder they don't trust us. Today, many have said, says, the goal of politics is to gain power and remain in power. So I'm going to translate that into that foreign exchange saying, "All for power, power for nothing." E as long as the policy goal is in Croatia the fight and functioning of the rule of law, confiscation of illegally acquired assets, theft in conversion and privatisation, taking care of pensioners, workers, the functioning of the judiciary, and not that I received today, in the course of these discussions, 15 citizens who have problems with the barriers of the state administration. No one's answering them, no one's writing them anything. Problems with the State's Attorney's Office, problems with the courts. Until we're committed to it, and that's fundamental to us here. Until the rule of law functions these phenomena and situations, unfortunately there will be more and more and the people will have less and less confidence in us here and normally that the state will go deeper and deeper and deeper. We speak on the one hand, we open negotiations on entering the European Union, and on the other hand we systematically work against Croatian citizens regarding everything that is happening to us today that is contained in the interpretation. And that's why I plead that the real one in the further debate is agreed and that we go in that sense to be the one who leads to the return of morality to politics. Let's get our morals back together. To make a commitment to the government, to bind the state bodies of everyone. That everyone does their part of the job. But he's doing his part of the job, not that he who's supposed to be doing nothing, and the other one is doing something that's illegal. And as long as we don't put those dice on and that mosaic doesn't add up there's no progress we're making here talking and losing days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46438	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46439	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. This interpretation was directed by the SDP Club to the procedure solely for the purpose of seeing and assessing what was happening after the local elections after the completion of the local elections. There have been many qualifications here that have been involved in immoral actions, corruption, and criminal acts. In any case, if there were actions that changed the opinion of the citizens they expressed in the local elections, but also to try to react to all of this and try to find solutions that would lead to us avoiding such a situation in the next local elections. A politician like any man has the right to change his mind, however, when he changes his mind because of the money he has received or for any other benefit, thereby causing new relations in society, he definitely has made the most difficult form of corruption and therefore has to be held accountable. I don't remember until now that any politician for trading a term of office has ever ended up in prison. However, the legal framework for such a work exists and those who do so should be and should be already legally sanctioned. Since 1997, we have cases of buying local councilors, which was subsequently confirmed in an interview and current HDZ secretary Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. He asks a journalist if he was familiar with the 1997 affair when Glavas and Hebrang offered a councilman according to his claims of free kidney transplantation in Switzerland, he claims to know about it. But also says Mr. Jarnjak, I quote: "HDZ is a party that has cleaned up from the things that some people used to even deal with." So admits Mr. Jarnjak yes. There were some people who used to buy councilmen in such a way as to promise them free heart transplants or kidneys in Switzerland. After such recognition, it is hard to tell citizens that everything that has been written in the Croatian public for weeks has really not happened. It is also difficult to explain to them because no one reacted to all of this in the way he was supposed to react as state bodies. Where is the problem with all these stories that were written in the paper that someone got 100, 200 or 300 thousand euros, that he got an apartment, that he got no idea what everything wasn't said either. Unfortunately, the problem is that in practice it is difficult to prove such a work because the persons involved in such actions are in the interest of silence both sides. In such cases, there is never a damaged party who is a direct witness. There's no paper. No receipts. There are no bank accounts to monitor the flow of money. So either it's cash and in any case it's very difficult to prove or it's about certain syncures that will be charged equally over a certain period as if a certain amount was paid at once in cash. The fact is, too, that the local elections did not respect the law either. In many, therefore, local self - government units, and not only did things happen that could be called immoral, dishonest, dishonest, but it was certainly illegal. Here today, it was about how there are therefore both in these and in those parties people who are immoral and dishonest. Yeah, it's a fact. No party is immune from dishonest and immoral people. However, the difference is that some parties know how to deal with it, so when such members detect it, they remove it from their ranks and other people have left it neatly in their ranks and thus profited in certain environments. The government's call is obviously often stronger than any policy, morals, principles, values, parties. So the call of power is much stronger than all that and there is only one me and my personal interest left. It's a little bit important for citizens right now. The most individual transitions seem to me to have already been done here before me and calculated anyway thanks to certain motivations from the ranks of the Croatian pensioners, which means that the party in the local elections did not show itself as a party that exclusively fought for the interests of its population but was about only certain individuals trying to make certain profits for themselves. When it comes to some legal interpretations, it should be said that legal experts from the State's Attorney's Office say that as far as proof is concerned, whether corruption or not is in the event of the purchase of a mandate that it is not only necessary to prove that the money for a particular political decision is given to someone but is sufficient to even be offered to fulfill the essence of the crime. For example, it is strange that no one has responded to anything that has been made public and for which there is therefore evidence of its own. It's a situation in Velika Gorica where it's been written for a long time that individuals are buying councilmen because the new government has annulled contracts with the city. Stopped their investments. So it hurt their business interests, their personal interests. And it was said that Mr. Brdek was given the EUR 350 thousand offered to him. When it comes to the question of journalists to Mr. Brdek whether it is true that he was offered EUR 350 thousand in the case, I quote: "I refused all the money and I refused everything." So Mr. Brdek did not say that he was not offered EUR 350 thousand. He didn't deny it. He just said, "I refused it, I didn't take it." So this fact itself that he admitted that money was offered to him should have been enough for the State's Attorney's office to initiate the procedure. According to my information, nothing's been launched yet. In other areas, too, the purchase of councilmen by HDZ is mentioned. Unfortunately, certain pressures on certain people are also mentioned, and now it is only a matter of what each time it is said that HDZ is behind it. Why aren't they saying there's another party standing there? And that's why it seems to me that it's primarily in the HDZ interest that all these cases get lighted up, cleared up, and that it says whether someone bought councilmen, who bought them, whose name and why. It should also be done simply because in this country, with the way we've been acting for the past few years. I've mentioned here since '97. So the years where it was confirmed that there were these kinds of things, so this is how councilmen were bought, where none of the politicians had answered. We're just creating a perception with the citizens. First, that a politician's job is an unfair, unfair and immoral business, that politics is at all a dirty activity that only people of suspicious intentions, suspicious files enter into. Second, they're running away from politics. I think that pretty much our own actions, primarily because we haven't solved all these suspicious cases that have been solved in public, which have been written about, we haven't resolved them by, so those who needed them, both the State's Attorney's Office and the U.S.K.A. and many others, at the end and the State Administration's Office. Because all these cases remained open and remained in the air of suspicion, people simply ran from politics. We in each election have a growing number of people going to the polls and I think that this is our behaviour, not only have we compromised our reputation, our personal, political, political, political parties, but we have simply put democracy at risk in this country. And on behalf of all of that, I would like that, after this interpretation of some of the things in this country to move and above all, to find some mechanisms that would prevent such immorality, this kind of trade, this kind of undoing the will of the electorate in the next local elections. But also to do everything we can to get rid of the work of politicians, because I really do, and I've been saying for years that the largest number of people in politics is fair and that this job that needs to be done for 12 hours is working and that most people are really doing the job of politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46440	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the false assumption that HDZ is behind all cases of corruption and defection. Here's an example of a soldier. A few days ago, a councilman in Vojnić simply realizes that actually acting as a government does not achieve the goal that has so far been, he ceases to support SDP, HDZ, pardon and passes to the SDP. And that's exactly the example. If someone crosses HDZ, it's corruption, and if someone crosses SDP, it's pure demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46442	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46443	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Opacic, presented an incorrect thesis, that the aim of this interpretation is to point to illegal political malfeasances following local elections. That's not true at all. The aim and attempt of this interpretation is to destabilize the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ in some way, and on the other hand it is to cover certain failures in the local elections that have recently been held and certainly concealing problems within the SDP when it comes to fraud in the relation of communists and the Social Democrats, which we have had the opportunity to listen and read about these days. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46444	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46445	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague that most politicians do their job honorably and morally and responsibly. When you say that many are the sole purpose of their own interest, I will now repeat and reveal to you who it is. It is yours, according to you, according to the SDP, a very distinguished member, Mr. Kristian Okapovic, who buys, I said, and the list, and let alone the councillors, who buys a councilman, who buys a plot of 200 thousand marks to make water ready on it, and it is known that it will not be built on it. It's on a hill where nothing will ever be built. The water will be a few hundred metres away where it is known in advance and it was known where water will be stored. Who buys everyone he can without criteria and without any reason. So, be kind and be a little, a little critical, not a little bit but a little bit, at least a little bit, a little bit self-critical of your members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46446	Thank you. Let's move on. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46447	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. It is very valuable this interpretation of the threat of democratic values in our society. The trouble is, she's badly prepared. I talked about it on the board yesterday, and I feel bad that he also signed up there and took over the role of spokeswoman. Namely, it is such a significant topic and addresses so many problems that one serious material should be prepared. This discusses different levels of the problem of the threat of democratic procedures, democratic and constitutional values, good customs, public morality and traditional values. The first part is not about the government. It's a whole series of problems that concern legislation. I think we need to seriously think about adopting a single system bill on elections that in a package of peaceful times between elections solves all the problems we face, you more than I do because you live in that process longer. Another problem is political corruption. This is about the phenomenon of the so-called phenomenon. big corruption. Unfortunately, only the results of surveying international or international transparency are popularised in Croatia, and more serious research by other serious institutions is not conducted, not popularised so much. I'm going to make only two studies here to get a rough insight into where they are and where they're the main hubs of political corruption. According to the state's capture crime, so-called the state capture, the index of Croatia is located in the first, second, sixth place among the transition countries and from different branches of government are the most corrupt party finances in the first place, then trade courts, then central bank, then criminal justice then the Office of the President of the Republic and lastly Parliament. So we are the least corrupt in this society, which is quite comforting. And the perceptions of the Croatian public are completely reversed. As far as these stories are concerned, who's who and how he's buying it should think about opening up some kind of stock exchange between MPs and MPs because it's a big deal. That would fall under a special category. As for the very experiences of abuses of position, I regret that there is no honourable representative of Ivica Racan here, I guess he has requested political asylum in China, because the process of repression in the period 2000 to 2004 has finally come to light these days and is shown to be so-called. The coalition government systematically as internal enemies, handled many people known to the public, such as Vladimir Seks, Ivo Sanader, Goran Ivanišević, Raja, Kukoč, archbishop Bogović, Puljic, here and there in footnotes and my smallness. The committee in charge, led by Ivan Jarnjak, is afraid to put this debate on the agenda, especially in the context of the latest events around Perkovic, because it would be seen that the system of endangering constitutional order and democratic values is not only related to the fish exchange and the stock exchange of MPs but also more serious abuses. As far as repression is concerned, before and after the election, and crime is addressed wrong again. It's not this Parliament, it's not the government, there's the BOLO, there's the State's Attorney's office, and it's completely, I mean, incorrect. I'm almost convinced there's nothing to do about cases in Velika Gorica, Vojnic, I don't know, Dubrovnik and elsewhere. What we could conclude today is that it is up to the government to inform this High House through the competent authorities of the judicial authorities about where it is, how and how it has been done in this area. As far as I'm concerned, it's the last thing, the Sisak case. Very interesting case. I listened with attention to the exposure of Milorad Popovec. Turning into some kind of modern Pribičević Croatian politics. A wise statesman who today said something that was promising to me. I supported the position of the opposition on the mammal case on the Committee of the Constitution and the political system because I found that nothing was done there which was illegal. We too must avoid any moral judgments when it comes to procedures. However, I think this is the most dangerous case in Croatia's recent history. It is about the abuse of the Serb minority and other minorities and taking away the rights of those minorities to be social Democrats, HSS, peoples, whatever they want, even liberals, there are even such. And the real ones. So, what happened in Sisak? Three participants on the coalition list, according to their own conscience, withdrew from the list to ensure a comfortable majority. So they must not be but the Social Democrats, nor the HSS, nor the CNS, but must be Serbs. That was the situation in the 1990s when I begged my colleague Popovec to be a Serb, and it was so unacceptable for him at the time because he felt Yugoslav or whatever you wanted. Today he has grown to be a wise man. So when someone expresses public-moral courts he must do it quietly and self-critically. And as for specific cases, gentlemen, what someone will corrupt after the election if, on the basis of the documentation I handed over to the State Attorney's Office and our distinguished prime minister, one representative and vice president of the party, the shadow prime minister, paid off on the basis of the so-called, $20 million premium to Bechtel for, in God's justice. Or... 48 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does he have to buy later when it's all prepaid? Therefore, gentlemen, this interpretation is very good. However, I think we should start with electoral legislation. It creates anxiety, and I can see that the President of the Parliament has also announced that this will be discussed at the last minute. At the last minute, the heads aren't cold, everyone's got something to calculate, and if we want to do good to this community, then we stick to the World Bank's research. We are the least corrupt in this House, the public sees us differently. This House is unfortunately an abandoned institution. He doesn't have a kiosk downstairs where a visitor could buy a memorabilia, he doesn't have a serious public relations institution. We independent agents don't have seats or computers. I hear similar agents got computers. We poor girls didn't even get that. Therefore, gentlemen, when you endure such interpretations, always count on my help, but be serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46448	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46449	Dear Professor Letica. I'm correcting an incorrect quote. THE BOOK came to Velika Gorica, launched an investigation into the Brdek case, but to this day there is no indication that this is some kind of crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46450	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46451	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague, Leticia, that there are various forms of corruption. And the money and the money and the money, and the visible and the invisible. However, I wouldn't ignore the fact that we're talking about the Parliament. If you look at this assembly, you will see that a series of MPs have entered one variant of the Croatian Parliament, and now it is in another version of the Parliament. Let's not neglect, let's not say, independent representatives who will market a million, let's say, kunas that are easily distributed in different ways, and even easier with that money to buy, let's say, a computer, a chair, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46452	Thank you. Let's move on. Honorable representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46453	Dear Vice President, I was really under the impression of Mr. Lucin's speech at that first interpretation that I was delighted with, and I thought quite differently to approach the debate on this issue. I thought it was one moral thing to talk morally about a lot of things, ethics, morals. But when I heard Mr. Stazic here full of hate, a lot of twisted stories. So it comes to man that he's sorry that with such a man he can sit in the same hall When there are no arguments, when there are no ideas that could be effectively paired with a successful government and want to draw attention to themselves, then in the old custom, dishonesty must be invented, which is common for some other time. [[- Insect: Bravo.]] So in this case, this interpretation, in the discussions, is being accused here by the government of judgments, and on the other hand, it's seeking independence of the judiciary. So the question is, who can be smart around here? When yesterday, I think it was yesterday, he was listening to Mr. Stazic lectured on the shame of Croatia, etc., and attacked the government. And on the other hand, we're propagating the freedom of the judiciary. Who's here... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when Mrs. Opacic says today that HDZ has been partially cleaned, yes. But you didn't clean up. And this interpretation has these contradictions that I've been talking about for a while. In this interpretation, there are questionable coalitions of political options, and the following is about Velika Gorica, and I wonder what is there, what is there to say? Because in this area is an example of the illogical nature of the love of political options in the coalition. Is that maybe the store you're talking about? The fact is, after hearing what I heard here, the public wanted to warn themselves of new dangers from HDZ and its authorities. I personally doubt a lot of what is happening in politics, lack of ethics and honor, so I would like to take this interpretation as an ethical debate, but also to sanction those who are involved in crime in politics. We can all suspect and doubt, but one thing I want, that's it, but I'm sure that wasn't the point. This interpretation requires the government to be committed to democracy, and that it is required to respond to any sign of violation of the political will of citizens and of the law. That is why I expect a strong reaction from the Government to the flagrant violation of the legal provisions in Zagreb County, which I hope is accidentally omitted. What happened to us? As in most counties and here is individually the most numerous HDZ. In the negotiations offering potential partners the allocation of functions, nothing else, it was the talks and almost agreed on a coalition. After talking to the leaders, this time I'm going to go public with what I didn't mean, Mr. Racan's partners accepted a second, worse offer overnight. So it's justifiable to ask what this love came from all of a sudden? What's the reason there's been a new love? It did not occur to us to suspect in ethics although, you will allow me to understand, but the pearl happened at the end when HDZ doctors in Zagreb County were contrary to the provisions of the county acts and they were all excluded from the board against these acts. That is why, in accordance with this interpretation, I require the Government to legally grant our demands in accordance with the acts and consistency of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46454	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46455	You see, fellow Pasecky, you say Stazic is full of hate for HDZ. No, Stazic is full of hate and contempt for the purchase of councilmen, because I think it is the most immoral thing, the least that can happen in political life at all. Why? Because it's totally disrespecting the voters, it's totally disrespecting the ones that make you and I here in this House, because you and I have been chosen by these voters, and when their will is played out by trade, then those people who do it for them deserve both my hate and my contempt, and that Mr. Pasecky, that you hate my hate and my contempt for such people is not my problem, but yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46456	The reply to the replica, the esteemed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46457	Mr. Stazic, this isn't the first time we've come to such misunderstandings, but today you're talking about someone imaginary, someone in the clouds, so give God to him who he is? That's what you're telling me. Who's that? You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46458	Do not mention the name of God in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46459	Now we're not going to solve the question from 100 years ago, but right now at the moment you have the documents, I'll be the first to stand by your side.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46460	Replica, the esteemed representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46461	My colleague Pasecky was talking about love, ethics and crime. It's a wide area, and you said you were in favour of punishing crime in politics, but unfortunately not everything is criminalized, or you're doing a crime scene, but it's not punishable, for example. If you steal voters' votes, you steal voters' votes, how do you steal them? You've been selected on one list, when the elections are over, you're bought by those on the other list. This happened in Split, two gentlemen from the Croatian party of pensioners suddenly changed their beliefs and moved on to the other side. Those who voted for them were stolen because they did not vote for the other side, but for the list they were on. It's not punishable, it's only for moral judgment, and I wish it were punishable somehow. You see, but the state got involved here, these two gentlemen got the Board of the Port Authority, it had to be placed there by the government, the HT Supervisory Board, it had to be put there by the government, so not Split but by the Government and the Supervisory Board of the Ship of Split Government. So, the government headed by Mr. Sanader sat down and said those two gentlemen deserved these boards and boards of directors, because they looked over, changed sides, took away in bags of votes, and now I'm wondering in that essay of yours about love, ethics and crime where to put this? Whether in violation of ethics, whether in crime or in love with boards of directors, boards of directors, etc., but one of those gentlemen made it clear, I am old and has no time to wait. So you see, he said it publicly, so on the radio of Split, when he has no time to wait, we are patient, but listen to it for every judgment. It's not important parties, it doesn't matter that the SDP and some other parties have been cheated here and what he's profited from.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46462	I can't wait any longer. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46463	HDZ for a sudden outpouring of love, gentlemen, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46464	Dear Representative Jurjevic, I can't wait any longer, time is up. Replication response. Here's Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46465	Mr. Jurjevic, I will now tell you that I have truly spent my whole life based on love and I am here out of love for my country and I do not mind years that are more than you and that I would enjoy love and besides. ... Yeah, that's true, and you're talking about criminalization. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you're criminalizing, and who did you find out about the crime? You're trying to criminalize all of us. Go away, go from Sisko and a number of other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46466	So, here's to love. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46467	Well, after all these discussions. Here, just a minute. I'm here. After all these discussions, it would be at least convenient to agree that after the next election there would be no sale and purchase of voters on Sundays, if nothing else is there? So, gentlemen of the proposers, in the interpretation, you mention the alleged trading of councilmen. So I'm asking a question if it's supposed to be why we've been here all day in Parliament wasting our time. If you know for a fact that you are obliged to report corruption to the competent institutions. So is it really about the charges or the marketing? Furthermore, it is a small number of cases, including generalisation and inappropriate. I remember a few months ago, three months ago there was a show on Radio Zagreb the first program where the leader insisted on a chaotic state in municipalities, cities, counties and agreed with his partners that it was actually three such cases. I repeat that out of nearly 600 such units, three is only half a percent. So let's be 1%, 2%, 3%, that's a very, very small number. And it's good, I repeat, it's very good that it is because we can focus on that very small number of municipalities, cities and counties and I believe we'll get rid of it. Now, the question of who's blackmailing, who's paying and who's running away. As never before has government been decided by small parties and individuals. If they supported one party, then they were bought, so there were sales, purchases and the like. If they support the proposing party interestingly, then they recognize the programme, then they are not satisfied with the other side, the team and the like. I won't say out of courtesy that it's hypocrisy and Phariseeism, but inconsistency is too mild a word. A fresh example is Private, I mentioned. So, a man suddenly crosses because he's not happy and stuff. So to quote this time a Yugoslav writer who said no matter how sad the addition makes me laugh so much for an explanation. In Zagreb County, we agreed everything with a small party. And three councilmen ended up in the opposite camp. Interesting. They say later that you offered us nothing, so they broke the deal out of pure love and admiration. However, the constitution unequivocally violates the county's statutes and illegally forms power. After all, you respected SDP councilmen as proposings know it very well. If HDZ had done so, I think they would have hired most of the institutions and associations for the protection of those who have been disproved throughout Europe and perhaps beyond. We've heard a lot today about the manipulation of the rights of national minorities. Not a word of it. Clearly, because you gentlemen have thus formed power in this way. And why you only hit where you failed. I don't care if you're disbanding city and municipal committees, which you failed to form power, it's your party's business. Are you accusing them of being weak traders? I don't know. It is true that the change of the Election Law can in the future reduce the number of disputed cases and that, by proposals and discussions, we will see how much anyone is interested in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46468	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46469	An incorrect colleague states that we are talking about some alleged purchase in the interpellation and that we have no evidence of that. But in the debate, we certainly proved and not only in the debate, but it was made public that he concluded such a deal and signed a contract not there by some local politician but by the government's minister, the official, Vukelic. On July 27, 2005, he signed a contract that literally states "HDZ undertakes to provide a minimum of 20 thousand kuna per month for the functioning of HSU". He concluded such a contract with 77-year-old Franjo Capan, even though he knew that he was not even authorized to sign it. Although he was aware that according to their election success, only 2,000 kuna belonged to them per month.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46470	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46471	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a real name that's been mentioned very often today, from which I come from Sisak-Moslavina County. I would prefer to be mentioned for something extremely good but this time I am not and I am grateful both to my colleagues Pupovac and fellow Letica, who, in what happened in Sisak-Moslavina County, have recognized I would really not say disregarding the law but one immorality in the establishment of the County Assembly. In this debate, I was also encouraged by point 3 of the interpretation, and I will quote: "After the local elections carried out, examples of alleged trading of council mandates in Sisak, Karlovac, Osijek, Velika Gorica and Dubrovnik cast serious doubts about the consistent compliance with those provisions of the Constitution and the resulting legal and democratic normal norms.". It's funny that these days you've been asking questions about so-called. The purchase of the mandate in Sisak and bribery pass by members of opposition parties, not those who have agreed to power, and it is well known that some of them have received for those services they have done and have done very high positions in the county government. In its report, the government said in this interpretation that, again, I will quote, "it remains committed to democracy and the rule of law, respect for all constitutional provisions and application of the law in order to achieve full equality and equality between all our citizens and, in particular, the constitutional right of citizens to local self-government". The government also provided conditions for the elections but did not know what happened later on through various manipulations. Last session we started with a discussion about a whole set of so-called "supervised." election laws. It was evident from that debate that we were all dissatisfied with the events that followed after the election and along with a whole series of accusations as today and on the one hand and on the other. the purchase of councilors by pointing out the almost impossible prices they have made on the market, I would tell you council members, and then no one in their debate touched the case of manipulation by electoral laws by violent changes in the councils of national minorities and thus deliberately challenging the non-representation of representatives of national minorities. This kind of shape just happened, I think you all know very well about it, in some counties and cities and especially in Sisak-Moslavina County. Not to be longer, and not to convince everything that happened, I can only say that on June 20th when the Sisak-Moslavina County Assembly was established, even at one point we asked for the supervision of the competent institutions and we expect the response by a procedural error to be lost by most, and not only by the majority in the assembly but also by the quorum at the session. In Sisak, we are merely asking that it be not manipulated by law, that such an immoral act be stopped and that in other units of local self-government it can be prevented because in the next county assembly, the same thing can happen, that a councilman who is a member of the national minority is placed in a job from which he will not be able to perform his council duty can be replaced by a councilman of Croatian nationality and so on. So we're really looking to establish a legal state. At the constitutive session, I told the County Assembly the mandate committee, just to remind you, submitted a report on the elections conducted and found that, and verified the mandates for 49 council members, then the written resignations were given by three council members, the written resignations of the three Serbian National Councilors, which then purposely challenged the representation of representatives of the Serb national minority as three Croats entered their post. At the next session, the mandate committee determines that, on the basis of Article 26 of the Statute of our county, the representation of members of national minorities is lost and introduces three new council members from their lists. Normally, there is then one councilman from the HDZ list and two council members from the list of coalitions made up of SDP, HSS, HNS, LS, SDA and after the election coalition SPH, SDSS and HSU. So now one councilman is being replaced by two councilmen, if that's how we do it with pure mathematics. So we think that the later calling of the HDZ and HSP council members in the county assembly by the authorities is that we count the blood cells. We would also like to say today that we do not count blood cells and that we think that those who gave unrequited resignations, then placed in the headship seats and those well-paid places for membership in some administrative councils, have indeed deliberately caused this situation to happen to the school boards. And in the end, fellow MPs who signed this interpretation don't you think that this case that I've cited is also a misrepresentation of the voter's will? That it threatens the functioning of local authorities in certain units of local and regional (regional) self-government and directly endangers the interests of citizens as you are just stating in point 7. of this interpretation. I think the government will do everything in its power, and from what I've stated, certain institutions, I mean here at the BOOK, they're already interrogating some people who, let's say under quotes "indicted" in newspaper articles, so I hope they'll question those who, I say, have re-confirmed power, are currently in power, and it's known to them what happened after the establishment of the county assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46472	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46473	Thank you, Mr. President. So I am correcting the incorrect allegations of counterpart Roksandic, who claims that in Sisak-Moslavina County there has been a lack of respect for the voter's will because, according to the National Minorities Council, they have been replaced by Croats. That is not true, fellow Members, there was very much respect for the voter's will because voters voted in favour of the list of coalition parties did not vote for national minorities but voted for the candidates of those parties. So let's avoid the claim that it was the replacement of the council members of the national minorities because there are council members of the parties. And now that national minority representatives have been established, those council members who came to the council as national minorities, they can only be replaced by the council members of the national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46474	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46475	So for the simple reason that my colleague comes from that county I can understand her personal interest and her personal, personal desire to tell her truth. Then we want to make it very clear that the changes in voter will in Sisak-Moslavina County were not and did not happen. Sisak-Moslavina County voters wanted to change and gave their votes less confidence until then to the current government. And that's important, the voter's will has made a change. The changes, individual council members, took place because they were given the voter's trust in the coalition's lists. And it's not about manipulation of voter votes. And it's important to say, it's important to say. There was a danger that state authorities would engage in processes and changes in the will of voters. And what we're all interested in, and what many of us are talking about here. There are doubts about buying a councilman. There's a suspicion. And that's what's most negative for all of us who do politics. Someone has to say whether the suspicions are justified or made up, they have to say that again by the state bodies. Therefore, in order to have a far cleaner situation, in order for voters to know who is politically manipulating, institutions must provide answers. And when we get the answers from the state's attorney's office, we'll know what the real truth is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46476	Thank you. Replication response. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46477	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's the thing, dear colleague Linic, you said there was no manipulation and that you felt my personal interest and desire to express what I'm saying because that voters had the will to change. Well, the voters didn't have the will to change. The way it's complicated... It's really a thing of manipulation after all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The truth is, there are doubts. I didn't even say I was saying it, I was talking about allegations all the time. There are doubts about the purchase of councilmen, we're not talking about that famous trade of councilmen, but it's about the award of good three seats in the headship that each is worth about 5,000 kuna somewhere. And a few more boards of directors from the school boards. School boards have no fees, and it doesn't even matter. So it's obvious, it's not something you can't see. And I was helped by my colleague Pupovac, who himself said that as far as his SDSS party is concerned, that it would never happen again. And I wouldn't want to comment any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46478	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word on this agenda point. Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46479	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In view of the point on the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and related to the past, it may little, in past local elections and which it has submitted, deliver 23 SDP deputies. I fully support the Croatian Government's view that the interpretation should be rejected. It should be rejected for the reason that the Government has provided all the material and technical conditions and has taken all measures in accordance with the applicable law in order to implement the elections in accordance with the law. Also called were the constitutive meetings of the County Assembly, the Assembly of the City of Zagreb, and the Central State Office called on the constitutive meetings of the city and municipal councils and the vast majority was held, the constitution was held in the first meeting. About the insinuation that there was corruption in trying to establish representative bodies. It is clearly indicated in the government's response to the interpretation that the Government insists that all state authorities are doing their job, and all those who have knowledge of corruption are obliged and duty to address these same bodies. But let us ask ourselves, what is the main reason for putting up with this interpretation? Is this an attempt to draw attention from certain procedures and moves on the ground that she has been doing and doing exactly and now the SDP both in these and in past local elections? My colleague in the lab mentioned interpolation, so let's say something about interpolation. In interpolating how SDP interpolates council members into individual city and municipal councils. Here it is known that the party is using the provisions of the law on representation of members of national minorities. They are mostly members of the Serb national minority or to come to power in certain environments or where there is a thin majority of them to grow slightly. This is done in a way that SDP council members of Serbian nationality resign, replaced by Croatian Nationalities Council members and then more representations under the Law on the representation of members of national minorities are not available. They should be filled in further with councilors, the SDP council members of Serbian nationality. That's how you get one or two more terms. Just as long as it usually takes to win power. And so with this pre-election, post-election engineering past the majority will of voters comes to power. There is a witness from counterpart Trjecevic, who lost his post as mayor even in his previous term, although the coalition that supported him had an absolute majority since the SDP carried out the construction. There are certain knowledge that this type of engineering is being prepared in other environments. Dear colleagues, I think it is very easy to conclude where political morality is and who changes the political will of voters expressed in the elections. And now allow it because it's in the middle of an interpolation, and often here in the debate, Karlovac is mentioned, so let me say something about it. The SDP is the main problem in Karlovac that lost the election. And that's what the whole story is about and the whole structure is spinning. In Karlovac, the Croatian Democratic Community and coalition partners won the most votes in the election. On several occasions, the party tried to establish city authority. It didn't work. In which way and by which they press against individual council members, elected council members of the City Council by former SDP members because as far as we know, the SDP is not available at this time in Karlovac after being disbanded, we can conclude from the statements of the town councils of Ms. Sanja Katić and Mr. Franjo Capan. I personally have a problem with these illusions at his age and why in this way demean a man. Such statements came from the ranks of former SDP members. I think it's the best indicator of who worked in the local elections and after them, and what does their center think of this very act of disbandment? There was an attempt to construct itself as an agreement between the Croatian party councilors and pensioners before mentioned by Mr. Capan and the president of the City Committee of the Croatian Democratic Union. The agreement reads: "Free urban transportation of pensioners. Shortening the waiting for medical examinations at the carlovack hospital. The increase in the amount of Christmas pensioners as well as the payment for the functioning of the Croatian Party of Retirement." About how much we all know the decision is made by the representative body means the City Council of the City of Karlovac. I don't know how my colleague Anticevic knows that that amount is 2,000 kuna per councilman. Because the SDP is not in power in the City of Karlovac, and it will not decide what amount per councilman is but rather the City Council decides on it. Whether it will be two, twenty, five will be decided by the City Council. The law clearly states that the representative body, that membership in the representative body is irrevocable and the councilman can choose for himself which option will he vote for? Mr. Capan chose the option of the Croatian Democratic Community because he was convinced through two failed attempts to establish the City Council that with this team that is incompetent in two attempts to establish city power there is nothing to ask. I am convinced that all these problems will be solved by the direct choice of the executive body, which will respect the voter's will most directly, and which is why we all have a declaration. And I can also mention an example that is closest to me known. I live on the border with neighbouring Slovenia and I can say that there are no problems with the constitution of the executive government because the direct choice of the mayor is practically out of isolation. The Slovenians are neither prettier nor more honest, and I am convinced that such a direct choice of executive bodies will change everything that happens after the election. That's why the government has referred to the procedure of such a bill and I believe it will be accepted by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46480	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Jurkin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46481	Dear Mr. President, as my City is mentioned on several occasions in the interpretation of the SDP, I believe it is my duty in this debate to present the truth about the action of the city government in Velika Gorica. There's a truth. Only a lie can be invented. Honor cannot be taken away. Honor can only be lost. I don't want to lose her. I quote: "After the local elections, the party composition of the City Council of 27 council members was the following: HDZ 12 councillors, SDP 6 councillors, HNS 2, 3 council members, HSP 2 councillors, HSS 2 councillors, TDS, this is the local Turopolian Democratic Party 1 councilman and 1 councilman from HSLS. And one of these 12 councilmen who conduct the honorable duty of a city councilman is myself. I must warn that my party, the Croatian Democratic Union, won almost 38% of the vote in those elections, which is one of the highest percentages in large cities. And I must admit that it is large, you must also know that Velika Gorica is the seventh city per capita in the Republic of Croatia. At the constitutional session on 17 June this year, the coalition: SDP, HNS, HSP, HSS, HSLS with a total of 14 council members. The mayor's seat was won by Mr. Tonino Picula. He's not here, I'm sorry. And for his deputies, members of SDP and HNS were elected. The opposition left 12 HDZ councilors and one TDS councilman. After the constitutional session, a local press media reported that HDZ allegedly offered as much as 4 million kunas to councilman Brdek for the crossing of his side. But this one refused. Of course, it was just speculation without any fact. The change in the city's power has passed in a democratic atmosphere. I was present. The mayor and his deputies, all HDZ members, handed over power to newly elected officials led by Mr. Picul. Most of them are. Although it was very thin 14:13. On 16 September, a member of the city's headship, Mr. Ivan Brdek, resigned from office as a member of the headship and pointed out that he wants to continue to act as councilman of the city council elected from the list of HSP. The Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Office, which I've told Mr. Professor Letica, is an indication of some kind of manipulation for the time being, as far as I know. What exactly is this about? Mr. Ivan Brdek is former president of the large-scale HSP, a man who has been in the party since its very beginnings. Along with his party colleagues, he decided to say no to the coalition with the parties of the left orientation and publicly pointed out his disagreement with the work of the artificial and experimental large-scale SDP coalition and the HSP. We knew that the advocates of that coalition would be angry when they realized that they had lost most of the city council of the City of Velika, but we believed that they would, but we didn't believe that they would be used by any means possible to maintain power. Mr. Brdek, as I said, resigned as a member of the city's headship on September 16th. Like you're towards... The Central State Administration Office considers the automated management member to have been resolved over 30 days from the day of the resignation of Mr. Brdek was a member of the headship until 16 October. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, Mr Brdek applied on 17 October for the activation of his eternal mandate. According to the law, Mr. Brdek again became a councilman on October 25th. I don't know if you've been able to track me, but your dates are very important. Realising that fact, the unknown perpetrator arranged in the city for Mr. Brdek's resignation and the councilman's term. September 19th. It is the resignations signed before the election by members of the HSP, but it is interesting that Mr. Brdek has only been informed of this on 4 October. On Monday, October 3rd, a mandate committee of the city council was convened, and the session began at 7:30 in the morning. As the mandate committee has three members, a member from the HDZ ranks was not invited to the session, but two members from the SDP and the HSS held the session. At its meeting, the mandate committee draws a conclusion which, contrary to the law, determines that... Mr. Brdeck stopped on September 19th. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the Central Administration Office interpretation, Mr. Brdek was unable to resign at the time. That's all he wanted, because he's still a member of the city's headship. During the conduct of an incompatible duty, all rights and obligations rest on the councilman, including the right to resign. On 12 October, Mr. Brdek filed a criminal charges against the unknown perpetrator. The next session of the city council was called for November 16th, that's in a few days. We hope everything will be all right. But I wonder who takes the right to take the councilman's term as long as it lasts, while his term of office is still. Mr. Picula and his coalition authority have lost every legitimacy by losing most of the councilmen in the city council. I personally think, instead of renegade with dignity, they try to extend the time of their reign. I warn you that the law stipulates that the President of the Council is obliged to convene a session at least once every three months. And last session of the city council we had on July 28th. So it's been 12 days since the city council session was to be held. Since the city council is the largest body of every city, in Velika Gorica it cares about the adoption of a spatial plan, the budget rebalancing for 2005, the budget for 2006 is not being prepared. The city didn't name eight school boards and their statutes weren't approved. The city just stopped. Who's going to answer? Who will be responsible for the stagnation of the seventh city by size in the Republic of Croatia? Who has the right to place 65 thousand inhabitants in an uninvited position because of their own political positions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46482	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46483	Here, colleague Jurkin, why I'm saying this whole debate seems to be going into deaf ears. You 10 minutes of your debate, and we're talking about an overly important issue of immoral conduct in politics, use it to defend Brdeck. You say the hill was there, I don't know what, the founder of HDZ or what it was, so he went to HSP, or he didn't, anyway, so he was the biggest advocate of the coalition with the SDP, the biggest. So he and Picul wore that star that someone broke on some monument, and then, yes, along with Picul, he had four hands. So then suddenly he realized that his coalition, that that coalition wasn't good. So he suddenly regained consciousness, and before he knew it, he said they were offering him a suitcase with money, and then first he saw the money, and then he only saw the suitcases. And now you've been defending a man like that for 10 minutes here in the Parliament. Look, sir, I don't know that Brdek, or any other hill that behaves like that, but as long as they're in politics, in any party, while they're in a position to muddle politics like work, public work for the greater good, so long as the image of politics and politicians is the way it is. These all Brdeke need to be pursued from politics, prevent them from ever representing themselves as citizens anywhere in any party, on any paper and in any form. Because he's only a representative of his own personal interests, and he's still shown what kind of intelligence he's doing it with. So, please, let's not defend them in Parliament any of us, none of us. No Hilles.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46484	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Jurkin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46485	Mr. Stazic, I was only defending attitudes, and I accidentally had to mention Mr. Brdeck's name. However, I would like you to answer it in one quite, one general way and so on. In the Ice Age, all the people were good, and then the warming came and some broke down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46486	Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46487	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In this SDP interpretation, the government of the Republic of Croatia is trying to accuse itself of having committed itself to ensuring the rule of law, but has done nothing to ensure the rule of law. That it did not respond in a timely manner in some areas, such as Dubrovnik, Velika Gorica, Sisak, Karlovac, Osijek and that it allows trading in council terms. Here they are presented and processed by the following terms, alleged trading council mandates. It's about alleged purchases of votes and mandates, if the facts are correct, news of an alleged purchase of councilmen. I think those expressions are being used too much, so you can assume that it's just guessing and assuming. If there's any knowledge, it's the one who knows how to report it to the authorities. The truth is next. As part of its competence, the government has ensured the implementation of local elections until the establishment of representative bodies. It has provided legal solutions and has provided material resources for the conduct of the elections. Where necessary, where representative bodies have failed to establish new elections. It also called additional elections for those representative bodies where adequate representation of representatives of national minorities was not ensured. And this problem so far will be avoided and corrected by a new law which we hope will soon be passed on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. Individual cases, and I won't claim they're gone, should be dealt with in proceedings before the competent state authorities. And the individual examples cited cannot in any way reflect the situation in relation to the elections carried out because, in the vast majority of the elections, the bodies have been built up without any problems. I'll remind you that we have about 570 units of local self-government, and if in 5 of these cases and there have been certain failures, it's just a little less than 1%. When the SDP signs agreements, then there are coalition agreements or agreements on joint takeover of responsibility. And when HDZ does the same thing, it's corruption. How does HDZ not have the right to talk, sign agreements with other parties or council members, and SDP is allowed? What does a change in voter's will mean? If you are able to form most, then the voter's will is respected. And if it happens to the HDZ, then it's against the will of the voters and the change of the voter's will. I will remind once again of the case of that small municipality that a thousand 500 voters where out of 11 members of the HDZ council have received 6 mandates, but all others have united and the commissioner has become the person who holds the independent list and who won a total of 57 votes. It's a change of voter's will. Some parties did not opt for whom they would eventually join the coalition later, but said they would assess the post-election situation and the people they would be able to talk to. After the party's election, they sit down and discuss a possible coalition. And what is the government's responsibility for that? Well, the right to local self-government is a constitutional category, and the government shouldn't get involved in that. The council mandate is irrevocable. It seems to me, however, that the aim of this SDP interpretation is to justify your own choice of failure. In Karlovac, for example, SDP did not form power because of its incompetence. And why should the SDP be in power when, together with HSS and LS, there are no more councilors than HDZ themselves, or individually. The SDP, I said, is on its own because the person who was second in the joint list of SDPs, HSS, LS and who happened to be president of HSS youth at national level wanted to replace her with another councilman who was to become mayor, and she was to leave the city council. Of course she didn't agree to that. And that the SDP itself is to blame is the fact that the centre in Zagreb has disbanded the city board of the SDP in Karlovac. And it's not a rhetorical figure of what I'm about to say, but on the holiday of all the Holy Ones, someone in front of the party rooms of the SDP in Karlovac lit three lamps and thus honored the deceased SDP in Karlovac. The proof of this is both the picture and the text in the "Evening List" of November 2nd or 3rd, so it can be seen. Now the SDP does not have any members in Karlovac but only the Commissioner from Makarska and of course it cannot have a mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46488	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46489	Thank you, Mr. President. So I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Jelkovec, who, in her keen desire to defend the betrayal of Miss Sanja Katic, incorrectly claims that the party wanted to replace her for some combinations. My colleague Jelkovac, that's not true. Your colleague Sanja Katic is the most common traitor who has betrayed HSS politics. Why? I don't know, but she probably knows, and you probably know why that was done.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46490	It may be a little too difficult to use in the Croatian Parliament, expressions for someone to be the most common traitor.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46491	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46492	I mean, it's a little...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46493	Because she cheated on the electoral body.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46494	You know from that, that aphorism "killed him too much of a word". ... Replica, the esteemed representative of Florian Boras. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46495	Mr. President, I will replicate to Mr. Jelkovec in a way to tell him that he, in particular, pointed out in his debate here that the most common word that the interpreters of the interpretation mention in their text of the interpretation "is allegedly supposed to be," he said. It's not the most common word in the text of interpretation, it's also the debates that were held here in the Parliament. I couldn't react otherwise. It has been mentioned that the Committee of Legislatives has been involved in this story in an unworthy and illegal way, contrary to the Rules of Procedure. For a short period of time, I'll just say the following. Of the 10 hundred letters received by the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, and he is particularly familiar with such letters by my respected colleague, Pero Kovacevic, I answer to those letters as chairman of the Committee on Legislatives by name and last name. One of those letters I responded to is also a letter to the president of the city council, Zlatko Bukovec. Therefore, counterpart Kovacevic, let go of "the words," she said. You have a document in your hand that says to Mr. President Zlatko Bukovac. In that letter requesting an interpretation from the Legislative Committee, I explicitly say to him, "Mr. Bukovci, I answer you in your letter as follows. A credible interpretation of the law can only be given or denied by the Croatian Parliament alone. Secondly, the proposal for a credible interpretation can only be submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by authorised legislators, and this is not the president of the city council, so you. Third, the interpretation for the implementation of individual laws shall be given by the central authorities of the state administration in accordance with the specific laws governing the issue. Fourthly, I see from your letter and the contributions you gave me next to it that you have addressed the Central State Administration Office for interpreting the provision of that law." And I end up, asking a question aside from the request for interpretation rather than asking him to answer the question, what happens to the MP when his mandate is at rest, I answer him to rest all the rights that arise from that mandate. And that is my letter and no authentic interpretation on the contrary, one of tens of hundreds of letters that I answer as chairman of the Committee, and with the consent of the Legislator Committee for such letters. And further, your frustration of inability to bring down this government, nor will it do so in the next election, I understand that this and this kind of act of yours is the consequence of that fact, because the coalition... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46496	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. ... Please explain. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46497	Mr. President, so Mr. Boras incorrectly stated this whole fact, the truth did not tell me, but gave a correction to the incorrect quote and in the name of the Croatian party's club I seek a break because he forgot to read the last part where he entered the metric. That he did what he was saying, but he said, that he said I like Boras think, but he said on behalf of the board. That's the whole problem, the whole point of all this. So I'm looking for a break on behalf of Club HSP 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46498	Ten minutes. ... And the HDZ club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session after the request for a recess. The club of HSP representatives, the respected representative of Pero Kovacevic, on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46500	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! So the HSP Club was looking for a break, and the first thing he thought was important is that, we realize that Mr. Boras first abused the replicas institute because Mr. Jelkovac who he was replicating didn't speak to this subject at all. The second thing Mr. Boras did, he did what was contained in this letter, and the media today read that the Parliament, or the Committee on Legislatives, gave a credible interpretation. First, we need to agree that formalism is the principle of democracy, that it is important to be right and that no one can behave independently as chairman of the board, the committee is me. We can't afford it if, and we have to get ahead of it. Next thing you know, it's important. It's all about that. Mr. Boras take the Office Business Regulation and you will see how and in what way any act that comes in handy and you have put the title of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee for Legislative Affairs, the class of which, Zagreb, on 9 November 2005. The media has been speculating since Friday that there will be an authentic interpretation at the board's session. They called me, they called the other colleagues in the opposition. We told them after the board no, it wasn't that point at all on the agenda. Still, the first page of your answer. If you'd stopped at it, you'd be fine. The Committee cannot give at all a credible interpretation. Reliable interpretation is given by the Croatian Parliament, is it secret? The Committee may participate in part of the preparation. The request can be filed, who? Who can pass the bill? So the government and parliamentary representatives can, in some cases, and the Constitutional Court if this is part of a ruling on the problem. I therefore expect the HSP Club to set an example for the other committees, such as the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and not to violate it, because you eventually signed as chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, and you said, so while the mandate of a member of the representative body is at rest, all his obligations and rights and the right to submit his resignations are still at rest because they are carried out by his deputy. That way without it being at the board meeting, you can't give it away. You can't give anything that wasn't at the board meeting. And that's why we MPs from the opposition committee have applied for it. So the thing is, you can't act like a board is me. It's a fundamental mistake. That's how you made it possible for the public to be misinformed. All day long, it's been said that the Legislative Committee has given a credible interpretation. On the other hand, Mr. Jukic's request was filed in July for whom you accused President Seks of being with him. He's not. He's with you. You haven't put it on the agenda yet. So what do you say now? What to say about the principle of rule of law when the chair of the Committee on Law violates that part. And for that part that we realists are frustrated, that our problem isn't, we're not frustrated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46501	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, MP Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46502	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I, too, feel really sorry for us from the HDZ Club that we must discuss in a way that we are looking for breaks and that we also have to absorb those questions after these breaks, which we in the HDZ Club particularly believe, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, that we have, on our Legislative Committee, absorbed in one correct and clear way. I was not in the hall when some MPs and among them respected counterpart Kovacevic pointed out that the Legislative Committee had violated the rules of procedure, applicable laws, etc. It was also said that the chairman of the Legislative Committee instead of Zlatko Bukovac is the head of the City of Velika Gorica who requested an authentic interpretation of a regulation instead of him to respond to some local HDZ. The truth is, I'll tell you what it was about. On 18 October this year, Mr Bukovac sent me a letter requesting a credible interpretation of Article 7(1) of subparagraph 1. Law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local or regional self-government. And after completing that part of his text, he specifically asks me, "Please answer our question without doubt," so beyond the context of asking for an authentic interpretation of Article 7(1), subparagraph 1 of the law I mentioned. And he asks if the councilman can resign to the council term during his term of office. As this letter, a colleague of Kovacevic, is well aware of, the Legislative Committee comes up with a dozen questions that require authentic interpretation or some other interpretation from the Legislative Committee. In fact, in public, I would say that the expert still thinks that the Legislative Committee can give interpretations of the rules. However, I have made it clear to the applicants that we cannot give authentic interpretation, that only the Parliament can do so, that the proposal can only be made by authorised applicants, that interpretation and implementation of the rules is carried out by the body of the administration. And I'm also saying that I saw from the file that they were familiar with it all. Finally, I answer directly to this question independently of this whole story, "As long as the term of office of a member of a representative body rests on him all rights and obligations". That applies, I will always give that answer to him and to all those who ask me such a question. So I don't think it's the right thing to do if there's some uncertainty we could clarify on the Legislative Committee, not at the time when we charge it and falsely accuse someone who at that time has no chance to defend himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46503	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46504	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that Mr. Bukovac has directed Mr. Boras, no, he has sent the Legislative Committee to President Boras. That's a big difference. If he had referred to Mr. Boras, then you, Mr. Boras, can answer as you did but not as chairman of the Legislative Committee and not under the memorandum of the Legislative Committee. Further correction, Mr. Bukovac did not get this answer at all but this response Mr. Bukovac received from the Radio of Velika Gorica who broadcasts all day long, and the answer was received by Velika Gorica, so the radio Velika Gorica and the answer was received by the local HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46505	Second correction, respected representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46506	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Boras in connection with the claim that the Legislative Committee, which he did not violate the Rules of Procedure. I, as an authorised promoter, submitted a request to the Rules of Procedure on 3 July for a credible interpretation of the law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the 15-day deadlines for the government and 15 days for the committee began. Today's November still my request wasn't on the board's agenda. On the contrary, the Prime Minister and the public have been informed several times about the opinion of the chairman of the committee on the subject I asked for credible interpretation, here the day before or a few days ago, the Deputy Prime Minister said five times that she had received a credible interpretation and Mr Boras had not responded. The case has been repeated again, the public has been misinformed, and the president of the Committee has misinformed the public with his opinion, and with his failure and manipulation in the drawer of my proposal, the Rules of Procedure was harshly violated, it has never happened, I've been here for 10 years, I don't remember the fact that it happened in the Legislative Committee such a violation of the Rules of Procedure and not respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46507	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, the procedure for giving credible interpretation is very strict and precise, prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It is determined who can give the incentive to give a credible interpretation, who can, who is authorised and whose initiative, or the request is acted on, the difference is procedural but important, the giving of the initiative can be submitted by anyone but it is precisely determined according to whose request the procedure is initiated. These initiatives or requirements to be launched, to give a credible interpretation, shall be submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament, which shall be submitted to the Chairs of the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the parent board, the Committee on the Constitution shall also give one previous opinion. The proposal sets out the credible interpretation of the Legislative Committee, submits it to the President of the Croatian Parliament, who shall refer it to the procedure and the Croatian Assembly shall decide at the plenary session on the basis of a reasoned opinion, i.e. a proposal for giving or not to give a credible interpretation in accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee. Unfortunately, there was a situation in which the President of the City Council of Gorica asked the Committee on Legislatives to hand over the President of the Committee to Mr Boras, a credible interpretation dissatisfaction with the central state administration's reply of 12 October and a credible interpretation of Article 7(1) of paragraph 7. Law on selecting members, representative bodies of units of local self-government. And as part of this, the answer to the question could the councilman resign to the council term during the term of office. This could have been twofold understood that, on the one hand, a credible interpretation was required in view of the disagreement with the opinion of the Committee, the Central State Board for Management or could have been understood and it could have been understood that it was a special booth on this issue. I would say that as a whole, and I think that the interpretation of the President of the Legislative Committee which, in its reply to the President of the City Council, gives a very precise business and legal analysis of how and who is looking for credible interpretation, which is fine, only that this sentence, which corresponds to a direct inquiry, has led to this questionable situation. This letter of the Committee on Legislatives, the chairman of the Committee, was addressed to the city of Velika Gorica, the city council, President Zlatko Bukovec, and I don't know if it came to him, whether he got it, or had been given to others before. It remains for, we can't discuss it now, I just plead for one thing that both committee presidents and committees as a whole always and unequivocally and clearly and precisely hold the Rules of Procedure to avoid such doubts, interpretations, and not to come up with the suspicion of a single parliamentary body and the chairman of the board that they were giving something on their own outside the Board's authority. I ask that we liquidate this and that, in the future, all parliamentary committees and bodies are strictly held by their Rules of Procedure. And as part of that, the presidents of those committees. Because we have a situation, I'm not going to, I mean, it's not the time to list them, when there's a conflict of what the board has concluded, what's in the written conclusions, we've had it recently, we all learn from it together. And let's go further and conclude this debate. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46509	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the introduction I would like to stress, in fact, the basic or core of this debate and my opinion and my view that this interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia should absolutely be rejected. It is poorly written in general and demagogue and, according to its content and proposed conclusions, it is a particular problem which is intended to be put on the agenda, not only to be clouded but all together, but to be passed into a barren political debate that cannot result in any concrete solutions, although there are also legitimate reasons for this when we are in the area of electoral legislation. If the interpretation is of a constitutional business nature which, at a session of the Parliament, opens a debate on the work of the Government as a whole or on certain decisions of the Government or of the ministries, if the same departs from the general position of the Government or the ministries in the implementation of the law or established policy, it is indeed. In the very explanation of the interpretation we do not find any firm foothold to which the proponent reasonedly and consistently initiates, therefore, the procedure itself of such... And the question arises whether we can find such an argumentable foothold in the document, in relation to the Institute of Interpletion, which has a working title, listen carefully: "The role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in law enforcement, the exercise of the rule of law, the protection of democratic institutions and multilaterals as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the government's activities are concerned, the situation is exactly the opposite, the government itself and the central central government office have done their utmost to ensure that local elections are held in accordance with the law and the declared constitutional principles. There have been no serious objections to their work either in terms of preparing local elections or in terms of local elections. On the contrary, this cycle of local elections has affirmed the Republic of Croatia as a state in which constitutional rights are guaranteed, and in particular the right to self-government which is exercised through local or regional representative bodies which are of course composed of members elected in free and secret elections and on the basis of direct, equal and general voting rights. Irregularities or problems in the establishment of representative bodies that have indeed occurred on the ground and as indicated in the explanation of this interpolation are therefore 5 units of local self-government of 570, so close to 600 units of local self-government, deserve, indeed deserve a more detailed and political and professional analysis, but not in the way that it wants to be done by interpreting it with general or purely principles, undefined concepts and not analysing the real causes of the situation in these concrete environments. Therefore, these problems are not caused by the least part of the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by the resolution ministries, but rather by their background elsewhere and of course they are on the trail of inaccuracies and under-developed electoral regulations which in their essence have not precisely defined acceptable ways of co-aligning in these situations or political arrangements, and thus also by the way not only of establishing representative bodies but even more important the choices of the executive authorities' leaders at local level. Looking at this problem after the elections in May this year from that level, the government referred to the procedure of the Law on the selection of mayors, municipal mayors and mayors, which therefore regulates this problem in such a way that it will be chosen by direct means, which may open up a whole series of other problems, but will certainly remove the ones we are discussing today. In this place I would just point out that exactly the problems of coalitions of parties that have nothing in common in their programmes other than the will to mathematically come to the majority in the city councils have actually generated this phenomenon which, in its fullness, in a negative sense came to life before and after the local elections in 2001. And unfortunately, that's the situation we've had since these elections took place in May this year. Perhaps in these legal solutions, we should have accepted the experiences of some countries that because of this, which is why they prohibit so - called. Pre-election coalitions, which at the very beginning of the electoral process, would not necessarily refer to political agreements, political trade or allow political corruption under quotes, but in order for citizens to know clearly which political programme and which people give their voice or trust. However, once the possibility of a political merger is opened, the parties joined by the basic provisions of their political programmes, even the diametrically opposed programmes, and thus in no way respecting the relative majority that a particular political party received in certain local elections, such an election process, or process that is ultimately ousted, is therefore being ruled out by political agreements, leverages, sharing of appropriate resources, sharing of power and influence that absolutely has nothing to do with voter's will, but thus is behaving concretely. A characteristic or school example of this in all of its generosity is the functioning of those units of local self-government, which is precisely 5 or 6 political parties have been acting in this way, where very often they have been added and so on. Independent candidates from independent lists who actually were or formed power according to that political option, that political party that had a relative majority in the middle. Neither the Government nor the Central Government's Office have missed any such irregularities in any such way as to legally respond in all those situations where irregularities or violations of legal regulations have occurred in relation to their jurisdiction. However, where and where criminal-legal liability is involved, there is a reasonable doubt that corruption is committed. Such individual situations, of course, need to be processed by filing criminal charges. In the end, it is also a legal obligation and not only those entities involved in the electoral process but also all those who have knowledge that a criminal offence has been committed. And finally allow me a few sentences on the proposed conclusions. These conclusions are also unacceptable because they more reflect one attitude, one principled attitude. More like the declaration in its contents than the conclusions. So if, for nothing else, for reasons of clarity, because of the business provisions in that sense, the text of this interpretation itself and the argument that I do not say such conceived conclusions should absolutely be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46510	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46511	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, of course, I disagree with the interpretation as a parliamentary tool, but I agree with a lot of the thesis presented and written in it absolutely. So there's no confusion, I'll read some of them. Among other things, it is said: "In the process of establishing representative bodies and after that there have been procedures and activities of certain parties and politicians who seriously endanger the Constitution and the laws of certain rules of conduct and good customs of political life of democratic countries as well as elements of violence. I stress violence, I'll say why? Furthermore, we must in particular ask ourselves how the political forces that the government wants at all costs by changing the result of the political will of the citizens through pressures, will act by violence. We need to ask ourselves what they are prepared to do in the conduct of the government when they are used in its acquisition by such a non-democracy and illegal means. Furthermore, the undemocratic actions of individual politicians, I stress, obviously, approved by their political parties, raises a number of issues relating to the very essence of democracy in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, we argue that the pessimistic thesis: "All are equal" is not correct and we believe that political forces in Croatia will strengthen democracy through political and legal condemnation. And finally: the political party therefore assumes responsibility for its candidates especially with regard to their moral credibility and political responsibility. That is why political parties have an obligation, have an obligation to take appropriate political steps when their members participate in corruption or in non-democracy procedures violate the Constitution, law, democratic customs or even commit criminal acts. So they've got political parties' responsibilities and I'm going on here. And that's why all of this I've read, what's written I've highlighted absolutely support, I agree, but if this were to be done, and if the applicants of this interpretation were to carry it out in action. Just as we are discussing this, one goal of violence is being pursued, it does not want to be legally and legitimately removed power left to the one who has received power. In Dalmatia these days, there is an actual struggle with chairs and a battle for chairs. The struggle with chairs at the SDP convention in Sinj between communists and the Social Democrats doesn't give a shit if our Ivek doesn't want to interfere. But the battle for chairs is about me and us, because on Saturday, there are five days in the Municipality of Pućišće 6 councilors, 6 council members voted no confidence, and previously made a request, 6 out of 11.6 out of 11, most voted no confidence. But five days after that, the chief does not want to leave the room because he says that no changes have been made in accordance with the law. He says he managed to leave the session at the moment, even though it was a good act when the councilman was changing. One of them resigned, resigned, and the other one replaced him. He says, at that moment I left the session and there was no quorum. And six councilmen asked for a request, six councilmen voted for mistrust. Here, it's been five days, he's sitting in the room today and he won't let anyone live. Because the media says he's also a great friend, Mr. Racan's home friend, Mr. Racan's SDP, because Mr. Racan has a cottage here, he's coming, it's okay, thank God. Everyone chooses their own company and friends. I can't get the impression that the top of his party, the general's party, doesn't know about this act. And here when you say some parties influence their officials and members, here, I invite you, influence your officials and your member. Let's not, if in the first composition of power he's got six on his side, five against, now that he's vice versa, let him leave power. It's the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, and if you did it like that, then I'd vote for impelation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46512	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46513	Well, counterpart Nenadic, in the heat of his debate, said one inaccuracy. He says there is a fight in Sinj between communists and the Social Democrats. A colleague...... No, he said in Sinj. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In Sinj yes, don't distract me. The fight between communists and the Social Democrats has been going on since 1905. That's when the communists told the Social Democrats they were auditists and they kept it until '90. A year. But then, as today, they reconciled a common name called the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46514	Since when is... And auditism, etc., that was a long time ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46515	... If that were not the case, we would not have started negotiations with the European Union because few people can raise up to nearly 6 hundred municipalities and cities have been holding elections for a long time, and of course there are also events in the charm of these local self-governments that are just the subject of the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Specially enabled.]] But I think it is wrong to point out the laporatic approach that should and should be because we live in the Republic of Croatia where there is a system, where there are laws and regulations and in interpretation with numerous, in many places it is said that they are alleged. But we need to tell the truth about the will of all of us to stand up for new values both in elections and in public life at all. But what needs to be said in particular, this House and also the Government are showing by their actions that it remains committed to democracy, the rule of law, the respect of all constitutional provisions and the application of the law because it is the only way that complete equality and equality of all our citizens can be achieved. In particular, the constitutional right of citizens to local self-government, in accordance with the European Charter, cannot be further stated. What is to be given to the government for commendation is that it has provided all the material and technical assumptions for the implementation of local elections, it has taken everything out of its jurisdiction. But not only that, but also the bodies, the representative bodies of local self-government and regional self-government. They also made everything necessary for the elections of national minorities in their area, out of technical and material assumptions, rooms, announcements, all that would really be achieved by the Constitution of guaranteed rights. As a result of these measures and the legal work of the authorities responsible for the conduct of the elections in the Republic of Croatia, elections were held and thus confirmed that the Republic of Croatia is a democratic country in which the authorities of the state authorities operate within the limits of the legal powers, which is a finding confirmed by the daily international community. The best example for this is, among other things, Split-Dalmatia County where between 55 municipalities and cities in 2 units of local self-government failed to secure in the first run, actually select the Commissioners. But here is the third mentioned just now saying that only this third does not want to leave the premises, does not want to implement in a peaceful manner the authorities are saying that the negativity of the influence of a particular party should, right now, be shown by their advice to apply the law and regulation, but also by established rules that have been applied so far. One who had a majority should behave, one who had a minority should leave it in one civilized way. Of course, supervision is secured at the highest level, because in the process of overseeing the legality of the work of the local self-government units, I repeat, since the last European Charter of Local Self-Government, the law, legal views, those expressed by the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court. It is, of course, necessary to say about the disbanding of individual representative bodies which did not go to shortcuts, but after thorough processing of all data, after thorough implementation of the whole procedure. Therefore, any commendation to the state central office of the state administration which has done so is also a highly civilized and professional way. Of course, every day we need to improve the electoral system, and as part of this, it is already a step in the election, the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. But we're not going to stop at that, and we need to say now that all authorities who exercise authority in the state should do their jobs, they should be encouraged, they should also respect the chosen voter's will as much as possible if it is once expressed in the elections. But we should once again and openly say that what we want to do is make high range standards. And that it can't be done overnight and we need to be aware of at all how we can get to those high standards. And the best is exactly the way the Croatian government and its ministries work, especially in this case our Central Office of State Administration. So I don't think this interpretation should be read, answered, and not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46516	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46517	Thank you very much. It's incorrect what my colleague said. However, we do not know whether the party changed its name, so he called Croatia a democratic country. Whether he meant the community or Croatia, but it is now less important. He claims the government has done everything possible to achieve the constitutional rights of minorities. This is incorrect since the Government, i.e. the Central State Office, and in fact the Government directly included with this conclusion in the non-implementation of the Constitutional Law on Minorities when it gave an indication that they had to be used as the relevant official results of the census, rather than the lists of voters because they were not arranged. So, how could he possibly fit in with the election itself? And that led to isolation, which has a negative consequence of a return to which every little bit of an old man welcome the morning of a broken head, and somewhere without a head.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46518	Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46519	Well, respected counterpart Peronja said that citizens have constitutional right to local self-government. They truly have a constitutionally guaranteed right to local self-government. Unfortunately, they can't consume that right, colleague Peronja. We brought the changes four weeks ago...... What do you want me to do again? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, four weeks or a month ago, this House passed the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The Law was one of the few or perhaps the only law that took three weeks to get from this hall to "The People's Newspaper" and was only published a week ago. But what's in it for citizens when they can't apply it? What are the units of local self-government when they cannot apply it except that they have to amend their statutes because the government has not sent amendments to this session and supplementing 35 laws that should allow them to consume the rights set out in that Law. The government at this session of the Parliament includes amendments to the Social Care Act, which is in conflict with the Law on Local Self-Government. Therefore, we do have a constitutional right. It also has a legal right to local self-government, but it cannot be consumed because citizens cannot be sure what will happen to public roads. There's no telling who or how they're gonna issue construction permits tomorrow. The law has come into force. Therefore, building permits have been issued in large cities since yesterday. Who's issuing construction permits in big cities today? Why not give citizens the right in local self-government to primary health care? Not to worry about regional and regional units of local self-government. Therefore, it is easy to write down the right to paper and vote it here in the Parliament, but it is difficult to implement it and it is difficult for citizens to exercise their rights to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46520	From the Parliament, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government left on time. There's only one small interphase, it needs to be signed, promoted by the President of the Republic. He was away somewhere. ... Yeah. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I cannot, instead of the President of the Republic, sign orders on the declaration of law, under his authority. Replica reply, distinguished representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46521	Exactly, Mr. President of this esteemed House, I was going to say that the correction is an incorrect quote, you said why it didn't come out. And secondly, the answer to the replica. Namely, this is exactly the first step in direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors. It's the first step where we can bring closer to what all citizens want, personalized elections. The name and name of the person who will be their person, the one who will be able to speak and be responsible for the implementation of the programme. Also in terms of the adoption of other laws, we have discussed this and at this point it would be wrong and wrong to switch to local and regional self-government of any other obligation without the possible mechanisms in terms of funding being adopted. This is not possible at this point because all the tests and analyses have confirmed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46522	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46523	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd start completely different. I simply don't understand why we're discussing this today because everything that's written here in this interpretation of me, when a request for interpretation is read, should be, it should come out of the debate with a shift. It's either the Minister or the Government. So I expected that the promoters would at least ask that the Minister of Agriculture be relieved if no one else because I simply don't see the purpose of this debate at all. Especially when we all know that we spent a month watching someone catch someone in the halls of the Parliament. How most of the coalitions agreed in the café after the election. And now we're pretending like we don't all know it and we haven't seen it. I don't know, we just forgot so quickly what was going on in these halls? Either most of the deals were made in these halls or made down at Bernie's bar? We all know everything, and we're all pretending we don't know anything because someone in a store somewhere lost something. And to return to these conclusions that could have been proposed as conclusions, not as an interpretation where it is said, "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of taking measures to strengthen the responsibility of all actors in the behaviour of the government under its jurisdiction." Isn't that the government's mission? Isn't that a normal government task? Now we've tickled them so they can turn it up. Second point. "It is up to the competent national authorities to immediately initiate procedures under their jurisdiction to verify the credibility of statements of political corruption and to establish all forms of responsibility for attempts to allegedly bribe individual election representatives." Isn't that what they're supposed to do? We tickled them again, so let them do their job. ... We tickled Bajic, they tickled others. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm going back to this third point because she was the only one who could be the subject of conclusions, but I'd like to read this fourth point before that. "The Croatian Parliament calls on all participants in democratic and electoral processes to participate in them in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the principles of democratic society by respecting the electoral will of citizens." So shall we call upon them not to obey the Constitution? Are we going to call on them not to obey the law and to be on the principles of a non-democratic society? Well, I don't know. I wonder who he's smiling at here or why we've been arguing for two days. The first day was the same thing, today is the same thing. I don't know who he wanted to tickle under his arm to smile at. And now I would return to the only important thing that should have been concluded here at all, and this could have been solved by the conclusions, it is necessary to access the full legal regulation of the establishment, action and financing of political parties as soon as possible, thus ensuring the transparency of their work and the responsibility of parties and politicians. That's what's important in this whole story. That we could suggest conclusions, discuss them, bring deadlines in which it should be brought, not two days to talk about something that is simply tickling under the arm.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46524	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46525	Thank you, Mr. President. All day long we've been talking about this interpretation that actually speaks about how they will survive and how local political elites survive. When the Law on Local Self-Government comes, the financing of local self-government ends at some reasonable time by an hour, two, three. It's obvious that it's not that important, I guess, that this is a more important topic of how the politicians on the ground get overly cobbled, who buys whom, who doesn't buy whom. But whatever reason to run this interpretation not only is legitimate, it is hasty. This 30% voter turnout in the local elections concerned us for about a month or two. After that, we stopped talking about it, stopped worrying, and it was actually a serious warning. What happened after the elections in a good number of places, municipalities, cities will discourage the next 10% to go to the next local elections. At the end of the ballad, only candidates in the elections will probably vote for themselves what they have and justifications for cashing out their mandate afterwards has reason to vote for themselves, what someone else would vote for them to cash it. It can be said, of course, that the situation in Karlovac, Dubrovnik, if you want Sisak, Gorica, wherever you want, the exception and the case, there has been before. The fact was that before, there were also in the first elections and others, there were all elections, in the Karlovac situation they can also confirm with concrete names and concrete examples. The people selected on the HNS list became mayors, for a week they were the mayors of HDZ. Oh, my God, it happened. It was the same then, and no one warned. It reminds me of that beautiful story on the German pastor during Hitler’s reign when they came for the Jews he was not upset, he was not Jewish. When they came for the communists, he wasn't upset, he wasn't a communist. When they came for Catholics, he wasn't upset, he wasn't Catholic. When they came for him, there was no one to get upset anymore. So, this is a warning, and I take this interpretation as an appeal and a warning, no matter what it says in the conclusions, I take it as an appeal to all of us, to all parties. Let's not do this, cut ourselves a branch on which we sit among other things, and cut a branch of parliamentary democracy in Croatia. So, let's support this appeal, whether these conclusions are going to look something like that or something else doesn't really matter. It is important that we promise ourselves that we will not work in the future, because no matter what we change the system, so we move on to the direct elections of local self-government heads now, if this mentality of purchase remains, God will not know what to do, because with all our new systems we invent we do not build up control mechanisms and build sanctions. We're only installing a new good will. If we stay at the level of goodwill in any system, by any model, the results won't be much better. What is the reputation of politics and politicians in Croatia is seen daily, not only in the newspapers, we can manipulate the media in one way or another. You can see from the citizens' reaction that reputation is not good. It is not good because they are dealing with examples that, I agree, there is not much, most people who deal with public affairs because they want to, they love, they need to, because they want to do something, because they want to help their community, but these examples of 10 bad examples in Croatia bring down 2,000 good examples. If in these poor examples it is a double personality as a minister who is 100% legalist and the minister, when the president of the city HDZ then sign a strange contract that the whole state is buzzing about, if a double personality needs to be treated, but a man who deals with public affairs can't behave like this in one role, in another role act like this. All these roles are connected and all make up one common picture. One of the participants in the carlovic case told us the suckers after it was all over, and I quote, "The art of trade policy." I always thought it was called a commercial, I guess I don't. There are colleagues who obviously know better, there are colleagues who today said that they still think that this is actually the right way to get to power every possible maneuver and then to do what a man thinks. I don't think so, I don't think every maneuver needs power, I don't think the government is that important, and I don't think it should be conquered in that way. So, I accept this interpretation as an appeal for honesty in Croatian politics to achieve what Vlado Gotovina said that politics is a lady of ease morale, if it deals with such people, and that it is an honest job if it deals with honest people. And I would take this opportunity to appeal to the citizens. You remember four years ago who sold you out, remember? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46526	Remember, go back. We've completed an individual discussion. We've got two clubs to discuss for five minutes. HDZ Club, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46527	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I must confess after my colleague Josipovic's opening statement, I naively believed that we would discuss the arguments, that we would discuss the facts. It turned out, however, in the spirit of the debate that it was mostly one accusation, some wanted to appear to be honorable, moral, honest, and we've been hitting on others that it wasn't exactly so, and I don't think we've found any relevant facts in this debate. As I said in that opening statement, we disagree with the interpretation that the government is responsible for some immorality because it allegedly did not take some action and we will not vote for impelation. The conclusions of the interpretation are not at all controversial, I don't think they should be brought in. Point 1 says "the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to take measures to strengthen the responsibility of all actors in the conduct of the government under its jurisdiction". My colleagues and colleagues, there's no need to vote on that. It should not be interrupted, because the Government and this and each past and every future one is already in charge, it is already in charge of both the Constitution and the laws to do exactly what is necessary. Why vote on it? Point 2 is hereby ordered by the competent national authorities to immediately initiate procedures under their jurisdiction to verify the credibility of declarations of political corruption and to establish all forms of responsibility for the attempted bribery of individual elected representatives. I find it unnecessary. And other state bodies are legally in charge of that as well. And to prove that this wasn't just a debate, that this wasn't just a debate where we want to discredit someone, that we want to view ourselves as honest and others as unfair, so we expect the applicants of this interpretation to be nice to those other state bodies besides these 23 signatures and 23 criminal charges with all the data so that these state bodies can work in accordance with the interpretation. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46528	Thank you. And a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46529	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! I'd start my speech like this. My colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, I warmly apologize to you on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired for making you uncomfortable in parliamentary and general political life. But you cannot challenge our legitimate right to organise in the political action an increasing number of older people who, by the works of yesterday and today's policies, are seen as a burden of society and are being imputed from these political speakers by sins without evidence. As a sin, a 77-year-old signed a contract for the benefit of the party. Did he take it in his pocket? I allow political naivety, political inexperience. I'm asking if he took it in his pocket. Of course, if something is illegal, it can't survive in life. It is muddled on HSU in four cases of a total of 200 places where the Croatian party of pensioners crossed the electoral threshold. Please tell me which party doesn't have the weeds. I claim that HSU played in general with honor, honesty and openness said that it was interested in executive power because only in this way can it directly affect to improve at least partially the social and material position of older people. Gentlemen, you are wrong to attack HSU and HSU councilmen in this interpretation because if you had led a fair social policy and developed the rule of law, the Croatian party of pensioners would not exist as a political party. So, instead of criticizing, review your work so far. Do not spread ageism and exclusion towards older people in Croatian society and especially not in this assembly, because according to the right voice of 90 year olds, it is as valid as the vote of 19 year olds, 30s, etc. You don't do bad practice and you don't build cheap political positions. Do not trouble yourself, but suggest a solution. Propose, step out, take your chances. Come on, 3% electoral threshold without pre-election coalitions. All parties crossing the electoral threshold must participate in the executive authority in the proportional relations of the votes won. Let's go, people. We will still have to propose that we from the Croatian Retirement Party and I do not believe that we will accept it. By then, I'll be here to listen and watch the master hypocrisy of my fellow Mrsics. It was he who could have prevented the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government that he and his political like-mindeds did not care to legalise the bad practice that the leaders in the city of Zagreb were illegally elected to the city's headship. While there is a political game in front of the citizens of Croatia that is self-inflicted and has little impact on the collection of cheap political points, Croatia's pensioner party will not vote for such proposals but will not vote for laws that reduce the level of rights and democracy achieved in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46530	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46531	It is incorrect that our colleague claimed that we are calling the entire HSU here. That's not true. It is true and true that everywhere there is a weed and that no one can claim in advance that it is impossible in his midst. That's right. But it's also incorrect when you're establishing, saying if someone took something in the pocket. It's not and then it's not punishable. But our law says in a proverb all these deeds for itself or for another. But here, the SDP does not view Mr Franjo Capan's controversial behaviour as being the minister of Vukelic who brought him into it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46532	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46533	I believe the incorrect claim that HSU has always acted with honor, honesty, and honesty. You know, it's neither honorable nor fair to take money from another party, sell a mandate from one list to move on to another list. It is not honorable and it is not fair because there is a Law on political parties that clearly defines how political parties are financed. Nowhere in this law is allowed for one party to finance another party in such a way as to buy the party's councilors. It's illegal. Just because it's illegal isn't fair and it's not honorable. But you say you don't build cheap political positions. You see, certain political positions won by individual HSU representatives in local self-government were not cheap. They were even very expensive somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46534	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46535	Well, it is completely incorrect that the colleague of Hrelja said that if we talk about bad examples of political traders within the Croatian pensioners' party, we are actually pushing or talking together about third-age Croatian citizens. That's completely incorrect. We're talking about specific individuals. I, unfortunately, must say that the Croatian party of pensioners in Koprivnica received 205 votes of 6.5 thousand pensioners and that the list I led received 8000 700 votes. I suppose a lot more pensioners voted for me than for the Croatian party of pensioners. Therefore, on behalf of those people and third-aged citizens who have shown confidence in me, I am telling you that it is not nice for the bad individuals in their ranks to generalise the whole story and to say that someone is against all third-aged citizens. Third-aged citizens do not just vote for the Croatian pensioner party. Because if that were the case, you would have the power in this House that you give to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46536	State Secretary Antun Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46537	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Here comes the end of this year's third thorough debate on local self-government. And when and from the government's point of view I try to sum up, we remain at the conclusion that in the vast majority of units of local self-government the process of choice, the process of constitution, the formation of government, the behaviour of local self-government was carried out in a perfectly legitimate way. In almost a day’s debate, two or three potentially controversial cases have been repeated and will be assured to find a legal solution. The USKOK also examines where there is a suspicion of any bribery, crime, legality or illegality in the conclusion of the contract. But the development of local self-government is on our souls, I am convinced and the government has taken concrete steps that so far no one has had the strength to launch from electoral reform to electoral reform, to the abandoned monotypic form of local self-government. And we believe that this debate will also contribute to the development of local self-government in Croatia. But when we talk about a concrete proposal on interpretation, we think there's no reason to interpret it. The conclusions that are proposed are general and we claim that we fully respect them and that you are needlessly reminded of them. But the reason for the impelation is unacceptable for the government, so the government stays with its report. He stresses that he remains committed to democracy and the rule of law and respect for the will of citizens expressed in local elections. That the authorities of the state will carry out and continue to carry out their work in their own district, in order to comply with the law but all in accordance with the European Charter of Local Self-Government in a way that respects the will of selected doctors. Life on a local level does not take place in a lab of sterile but are living people, it is over 8,000 councilmen who have their will and have the right to participate in forming power according to their conscience. We suggest that the Parliament refuse the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46538	Thank you. And the final statement on behalf of the SDP representative of the SDP Club, the respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46539	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. From this debate we had today, I think it can be concluded that we mainly confirmed the reasons why we handed over the interpretation. In this debate today, no one has denied the existence of immoral, unfair actions after local elections. As much as we've found here today, many more cases like this than the State Secretary has stated in the opening speech. The justification of this interpretation certainly confirms, not this debate today and all the cases brought here, but also confirms the latest case of the Legislative Committee where it is evident that, unfortunately, the Parliament has become involved in a kind of politicisation in local elections. And today, unfortunately, here, such a case has tried to be relativeized, explained as something that wasn't such a bad move, and the entire Parliament has gone over it easily. The fact is that this authentic interpretation, or credible interpretation, was not given by the Committee, was given and written only by the President of the Committee, however, was given on behalf of the Committee on Legislatives rather than as a personal position. And what you can see from all of this is that the prejudiced and credible interpretations that should be given to the Committee on Legislatives were also prejudged. This letter is, in our opinion, an authentic interpretation that was given primarily because of disinformation, which would not be the first time, but also once again, I would like to warn that this is the way that this House of Commons has become involved in politicizing local elections and local self-government. It is also very indicative and supports this thesis that it is about politicising and disinformation of the public and the facts, therefore, that this text was sent to the president of the HDZ and the radio to Velika Gorica but was not sent to whoever requested a credible interpretation. So, another confirmation today in this House that this interpretation was needed even though you state secretaries think it was not necessary, I once again say that this example proved necessary because there was no effective protection against those who do not respect the procedure and the laws and do not function in the institutions of the Croatian State. As far as the conclusions are concerned, my dear colleagues from HDZ are concerned if we have made conclusions that are in general interested in me why, after all your discussions today that you have said, and confirmed a number of irregularities, numerous immoral actions in so-called after the elections in the establishment of local authorities, why did you not suggest better conclusions? A little sharper conclusions? Conclusions that might be much stronger, much stronger, much better bound by the Croatian government, therefore, are evident that problems exist. Does that mean you're not ready to introduce order, and that only you... corresponds to status Q? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that how you send a message like that? And as far as criminal charges are concerned, any case brought here has been filed. The fact that the authorities have not given up to this day or rejected their criminal application or raised it speaks sufficiently of the work of those institutions. The fact is, in some other cases, many institutions have reacted highly, that for one minister when he was accused of corruption within two days, they have given the opinion that there is no criminal act that it is very interesting that the full two months in some other cases could not either accept or reject it. So, once again, I think that this interpretation in today's debate has shown that it was necessary to have problems in the functioning of local self-government primarily when it comes to assembling local authorities after the final elections that there are problems. And I think it's bad because this House doesn't have enough power to vote here certain conclusions that would oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to solve these problems and not welcome the next local elections with the same problems. We have all sent a message here today that Croatian citizens are perceiving politics and politicians as dishonest and as one calling that is not generally accepted. We all contribute to that one painting together. What we can do, we can introduce order when it comes to these immoral acts, and I think that in this way we can help each of us to stand here much easier in front of our citizens and not to be constantly pushed into the same basket that we are all equally unfair and all equally immoral. Therefore, whether we draw some conclusions after this interpretation or not, we will show how responsible we are ourselves and how much we can, therefore, help solve the problems in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46540	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Corrections. First, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46541	It is an incorrect allegation that an esteemed colleague, signed in writing by the chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr Florian Boras, represents a credible interpretation and regulations. That is not true, it is a letter which he, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, sent to the president of the City Council of Velika Gorica. That's the first quote I'm correcting. And the other one. It is absolutely incorrect that the Parliament, therefore, did not engage in any politicisation or direct interference in the outcome of the elections at local level, nor did this result from any decisions, any committee, any decisions of the Croatian Parliament itself or any debate that we have held in these two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46542	Second correction by the honourable representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46543	Mr. President, it is incorrect that a letter has not been sent to the President of the Council, the City Council of Velika Gorica, because I myself have seen a letter saying that it has been addressed to him and that it has been delivered to him. If he took him in, why didn't he take him in, he shouldn't have told us that, too. And secondly, I would like to say that it is unacceptable to try to suggest to the Parliament that it affects court decisions. Let's let some judicial bodies do their part of the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46544	Third correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46545	Mr. President, it is incorrect to say that this interpretation was necessary and necessary in order to shed light on certain things, it is already true that these two SDP interpretations led by Racan fired all this attack on the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to draw attention from their responsibilities, their unhonored business in the matter of electoral trade, and ultimately and electoral defeat, and for the great damage done to the Croatian economy. Thus, shooting blanks and Linic's plotting cloudes the reality of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46546	Fourth Amendment, Honored Representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46547	It is incorrect that the conclusions you have proposed are general. They are actually unnecessary, because the government's debt is not required by these conclusions, it is in charge of the Constitution and by the laws. And borrowing state bodies can only be done with criminal charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-10-0.u46548	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this interpretation has been brought in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, with the grounds that the Government is stepping down from the declared policy and the protection of human rights, the rule of law. That thesis has been questioned through this parliamentary debate. The government gave their report. Surely there is a need to avoid all possible ambiguities through electoral legislation, electoral system at local and regional level and... which open the way, which do not close the way to political corruption, trade, all those council and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the law of the Croatian Parliament should be passed before the next local elections to make these trade impossible by law. It is certain that the election, the direct selection of the mayors and mayors and mayors, will significantly reduce the focal points of political corruption in the council's mandates. I am sorry that this case took place on the interpretation of the contents of the letter of the President of the Committee on Legislatives, the President of the City Council of Gorica would not be very good at interpreting it as the involvement of the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament in post-election processes. It took more caution in both the composition of the letter and the request for interpretation and the response, but all this does not include that it should be carried out, allowing the conclusion that the Croatian Parliament as the most representative and legislative body was involved in, included in any way in something that would be illegal. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow we will continue at 10 and 30 with, 9 and 30, and it would be better at 10 and 30, but at 9 and 30 in the first reading, because it has gone into first reading, amendments and additions to the Social Care Act, so if we get this under point 5 on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and values. On the confirmation of these statutes of the Academy, since it is not yet all clear, the debate on the subject will be postponed. At 3:00 tomorrow we'll vote on what we are today and what we finish tomorrow. I'm closing the session. Third. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of laws and exercise of the rule of law and the protection of democratic institutions and multilaterals as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The impelation of the government's work is denied. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 66 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 27 against the proposed conclusion.
