ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43266	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the proposal for a law on the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section. The intensity is covered by a period during which the Croatian Parliament does not sit and resolve, i.e. to bridge the interregne from September of the month and until the end of December when these remaining regulations remain in force until the laws are passed which, the adoption of certain laws remain in force. There, the emergency procedure is for a reason that was previously explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43267	Thank you. The Constitution Committee. Committee Chairman Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43268	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System at the 39th session held on 21 September 2005 discussed the proposal for a law on the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee found that the draft law should be adopted by an urgent procedure in order to prevent the creation of a legal void and enable the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt regulations, where appropriate, on the basis of legal authority. The Committee supported the solutions set out in the draft law. After the debate, the committee unanimously, 7 votes in favour, proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43269	Thank you. The Legislative Committee, no. I'm opening a debate. The club of HSP representatives respected representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43270	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. It is known that the Croatian Party's view of the right to give power to the Government to regulate questions from the Croatian Parliament's section of the Croatian Parliament and our position is always negative because then we come to the situation that the Government is doing well in those periods if it was about the break-up of summer or winter holidays and then tries to push through everything that cannot be pushed through the plenary sessions of the Croatian Parliament. But we are interested in the Croatian Party Club, and it is evident that this authority is given again for a year, which means until 15 September 2006. We are interested in whether exactly what is said in article 2 of the arguments announcing early parliamentary elections, so I will carefully read the argument in the second article. Veli, after the end of the term of office, i.e. from the disbanding of the current assembly of the Parliament until the day of the first constitutional meeting of the new Croatian Parliament, the Government of Croatia will have the power to, in addition to the legislative... arranges all questions from the Croatian Parliament's section. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If that's true, then it would be an exception so that we could also support this proposal for a law on giving government authority. If it is not true that the prime minister and leaders of the ruling majority are announcing that there will be no early parliamentary elections, although the second article, not the second article, but the explanation says it will be, then it is a crucial issue for us, so we will mean that when we hear a statement from the government's representative, whether there will be early parliamentary elections that are in the second article. Because we know that this law, please read the nice materials that you got on the benches. Reason, read the second article. This is the official material of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was signed by the Prime Minister and referred to the parliamentary procedure. The fact that someone in the government doesn't read what's written in the explanations isn't my problem. That's the government's problem. But me, so I'm saying what it says in these materials. Secondly, if that is not true, early parliamentary elections will be held, we oppose adoption for the following reasons. First. The questionable fact is that through giving these powers to the government is slowly entering the office system, slowly entering the office system, and that we are already entering the office system in another way will best present official statistics from the Croatian Assembly website. Namely, this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, meaning from 22 December 2003 to 15 July this year, passed 218 laws. Of which number 181 laws, 181 laws were passed by emergency procedure or 83%. Do you know what this means for the legal certainty of Croatian citizens? Do you know what it means to act in the judiciary, to act in all those to whom these regulations apply? This is the creation of additional legal uncertainty and the placing of oil on fire for non-functioning of the rule of law. And now that more of these powers are given to the Government that it is still further pouring oil into the fire, we have seen, we will not now talk about this about the report on these regulations with the legal force that has been passed in the meantime, mainly which has been passed throughout this period during the term of office of this government, then it is visible how alone we are here, meaning by accepting this government dictatorship, and the government's dictatorship is that everything that is important is brought by an emergency procedure, and this is brought by the wave at summer or winter break, and we get the crucial laws of 20 and something to discuss for an hour, an hour and a half time, and then nobody has emulated, and then we see only in implementation what the situation that we have brought, and basically most of us here, honor us with the exceptions of Croatian party rights that we all read, neither read nor read any raises hands. Therefore, our position is clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43271	HDZ representative club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43272	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports the proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament and, of course, as a final proposal. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia explicitly allows and detailed arrangements on the one hand, and on the other hand, the legal regime for the adoption of regulations on the basis of legal authority, i.e. a legislative delegation. The subject matter, constitutional and legal matter, has been developed in Article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in which we find the so-called bans, i.e. constitutional restrictions on the legislative delegation that should be defined in this place as the constitutional possibility and competence of the Croatian Parliament, to empower the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate a particular round of issues from its part. We can divide these issues into two groups and distinguish them from one side with regard to their content, and on the other hand, given the way these issues are regulated or the way these laws are adopted, the methodology, which is why these issues are being regulated. Therefore, a legislative delegation, based on constitutional restrictions, cannot address one issue concerning the constitution of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Under two national rights. Under three electoral systems and under four, of course, they cannot refer to the structure, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. On the other hand, with regard to the methodology for the adoption of the regulations themselves, it is obvious that it is about those issues that are set by law that require a two-thirds majority or most of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, which constitutes organic laws, which in itself imposes a conclusion, or in itself, the conclusion that, from the principle level, it can be delegated to the Government to regulate the regulations of all those issues which are raised by the majority of votes or by the ordinary majority. Furthermore, it should be noted that, as far as legislative delegations are concerned, they are prescribed and so-called and called time limits, i.e. the time when these Regulations can be adopted on the one hand, but also the time of their duration. It is an explicit constitutional provision that the regulations adopted under the legal powers cease to apply within one year of the date of the power granted, unless otherwise specified by the Croatian Parliament. All the above and, of course, still needs to be highlighted and, in particular, the constitutional provision that the regulations under the legal powers of any situation cannot act retroactively. So back it up. All of the above or all of what I said on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, of course, that it was elaborated precisely in the proposed law, and that I would also highlight the provision of the first article, which, as set out in the article of the first proposed law, is precisely the time period specified in terms of the possibility of adopting the regulations in question. In line with all the above, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union proposes that the legislation in the proposed legislative procedure be adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43273	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43274	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, it was never disputed for the HSS that the Government must have the power to have in exceptional cases a so-called legislative initiative, i.e. the right to adopt regulations that have legal power at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet and it is clear that such power must remain in the future. However, the question is someone else, is the government really using this right restrictively, exceptionally, and when it is necessary and what is most important of all, and I will repeat it here. It is not a problem, colleagues and colleagues, in the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that the Government adopts regulations. The problem is something else. I mean, it's been said a lot of times from this pay phone, so I'm gonna do it again. The problem is in our ministers who have recently taken over the role not only of the Government but also of the Croatian Parliament. If you are a good reader of certain regulations, under legal regulations, including government regulations, then you will see that our ministers are writing in order what should be written in the laws that should be passed by the Croatian Parliament. Many times, the Legislative Committee, and this House of the High, discussed the fact that, when a certain law is passed in the Croatian Parliament, it must be written in every law that will be regulated, stated exactly the regulation, the sublegal act that will regulate these issues and who will adopt the act. In fact, we know that the executive authority really likes to infiltrate the rights of the Croatian Parliament and that should be prevented. How do you prevent it? Namely, I advocated it, and in the future I will advocate that in every law passed by the Croatian Parliament, when sublegal acts are mentioned, it stands exactly which questions will be regulated and who will bring it. I will repeat, so the Croatian Peasant Party is not against the government having such power, it must indeed have it. Such authority must be used extremely restrictively, when it really must. Secondly, take care of the behaviour of ministers who have recently taken over, unfortunately, the role of legislators, and ask the government to submit reports, not only to the regulations it has adopted, but to the sublegal regulations it has adopted, not under this law, but otherwise on the basis of certain regulations which it is authorised to do so. And also in all sublegal acts brought by ministers, not only ministers, but the heads of the government's body. In that sense, I think that we would have a cleaner situation and that we would really function more clearly, better and truly as a legal state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43275	Thank you very much. Individual debate, respected representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43276	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say that under the Constitution, under Article 87(1) of the Constitution, The Croatian Parliament can, and does not have to, carry out a legislative delegation and transfer some of its powers to the Government of the Republic of Croatia so that it can adopt regulations with legal force, but for up to a year at the most. I must say that in principle I am not against such authority only the question arises whether we have come at a moment that we need this exception in paragraph 2. You know, we've been making some kind of declaration and takeover act after the elections where we've committed ourselves to the minimal treatment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the implementation, validity of laws, budgets, etc. and in that period. And now, all of a sudden, we remain with this claim that it should be possible for the government to have legislative power during this very period during the break-up or after the disbanding, or to call new elections until the new assembly of parliament is established, so that it can practically regulate the entire economic and social system, except for the part that encroachs on human rights and freedoms and jurisdiction, i.e. the establishment and work of state bodies, i.e. the state of administration. I am of the opinion that the time has come, fortunately, that the Republic of Croatia is no longer at war, is not in a direct post-war period and that such power is no longer needed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary to leave this power referred to in Article 1 that from 15 December to 15 January and from 15 July to 15 September 2006 may be used with this power, but this paragraph 2, here in Article 2, should, in fact, be abolished, no longer accepted. Of course, there's something more to ask. Why this Law extends all applicable regulations except for the two that we have on the agenda to confirm or not confirm at the session of this Parliament when the law is also able to make different decisions, unless otherwise decided. So he can, but he doesn't have to decide otherwise. We here through this law offer that all current regulations that are in force with legal authority will be extended practically, not for a year, but by the end of this year, and this raises the question of whether some of the things that are dubious will be repeated are questionable. For example, we also now have on the agenda the adoption of regulations with legal force, i.e. giving opinions on their validation or non-confirmation, for example one was adopted on 22 July or a week after the end of the meeting of the Croatian Assembly which was held in the meeting, not only formally... The deadline, which is not only a question of granting apartments from buildings where defenders are located, but also theirs, and the victims of the Homeland War, but also of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders, given that it is governed by the right of who has the right to do so, and in this respect it is doubtful whether it is a regulation which encroachs on human rights and not only, in particular, from the aspect of equality of all before the law, which is a constitutional special provision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not right for colleagues and colleagues to use that authority besides this authority in a way that enters Parliament's authority and when it is not necessary. That's the first thing I'd like to say in particular. The second thing that warns us again is a regulation that is on the agenda, which we will also discuss, whether it is good to give such a general authority, which is a regulation extending the deadline to April 30th for the possibility of revision, conversion and privatisation, because on September 1st should become law enforcement. At the same time, we have conclusions that, in the explanation of the Government of that regulation, the Assembly has made, that after the report has been submitted, which is a motive for this extension to be made at least within 90 days, we will carry out the debate and make additional conclusions that will oblige us and the Government to correct certain adverse consequences under the Republic of Croatia, on illegality and irregularities etc., etc. Not to repeat all that. Therefore, why is this regulation not immediately extended, by that regulation for at least 90 days, and not only in 30 days. So the question is, what do I want to do with these examples? Does the government need a legislative delegation that he does not know how to use if he does not respect Parliament's conclusions? And in such a situation, I believe that the minimum that we should do is to make this law, if we decide to continue to give it to the legislative delegation at all, and the question is whether it is necessary for the Government to move forward, we should be able to delete Article 2, because it is clear that this Article 2, this exception is no longer necessary. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Moreover, through a legislative delegation there is a possibility actually during this session, because until the end, the Parliament will be caught, if it is necessary to amend and supplement the law, so let the Government prepare a proposal for amending and supplementing the law on the basis of these regulations that are already in force. It doesn't make any sense that we leave these issues like this, because in the end, you know, it's a question in the ultimate line of our responsibility to our constitutional position, like the Parliament, that we oversee and control the work of the Government, even in this segment, and not that we give it unreserved support, and then things like these two regulations that are the subject of this session that we're going to discuss, give our opinion on their confirmation or non-confirmation. For all these reasons, I would argue that, before we vote on this law, we would accept amendments to delete Article 2 and delete the extension of the deadline, but that these amendments should be proposed by the proposer, the extension of the deadline by the end of this year. Moreover, the proposer of Article 2 should agree with the views of the parliament which have already been expressed in relation to the transfer of power after the elections have been made and before the constitution of the Parliament and the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43277	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43278	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, I personally doubt whether the Government should have the power to adopt regulations with the legal force during which periods, and if so, whether these powers, or the possibility of law-making, should be laid down as broadly as those of Article 1 set out in a space that can be edited, and I particularly doubt what my colleague Arlovic said, does Article 2 have any need to write in such a law at all? Otherwise, he would urge the Government to consider whether Article 1 did not conflict with the Law on the implementation of the state budget adopted by this Croatian Parliament and where the Croatian Parliament gave authority to the Government so that it could change the state budget. I now do not understand, therefore, how the Law on regulations governing certain issues would limit the possibility of changing the state budget, and on the other hand, we told them about the Law on the implementation of the state budget. You can change the state budget, just let us know within 15 days of what you've done with that state budget. But what I'm here for, so that's content. What concerns me here is the practice, isn't it, of what the government has in its sessions? I am concerned not only that the Government will, from 15 December to 15 January and from 15 July to 15 September, have these powers, which will have those powers at the time when the Parliament is disbanded but will not have to apply a far-reaching practice which we in the Assembly apply and we must respect the procedure when we adopt laws. For example, not for example, but just like that. We, when we want to pass the law, have to conduct some discussions, it has to go through some committees, so then we have to be here in the plenary hall, there has to be a quorum. But sometimes we argue about whether we have a quorum in the hall or not, whether a representative is half in the hall, and half outside the hall is a quorum or not a quorum. But what does our government do? Our government has phone sessions. Now, I'm asking myself if the government can pass the rule of law to a telephone session. So this turns out, and we had a chance to see that with "Liburnia" we had ministers working on the Adriatic coast probably rolled beneath the palm trees, rocking on the luftics and voting on a billion kuna to give in to a holding company in Croatia. On the phone! And then it turns out that some of the ministers didn't make it to the post office so then all the mail didn't come, so they didn't open the mail but they voted on the phone. Thus, according to this regulation, it turns out that the Government not only can pass laws but that it has a quantum difference in technology compared to what we have here in the Croatian Parliament and what is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We can't discuss it on the phone. We can't have a teleconference, or tele-Sabor. The government can. The government can vote on the phone, we can't vote on the phone. We can't even vote with the keys, and the government can use the phone, right? Now the question arises whether the Government must be in the country when voting on these regulations or, for example, the Government can be from 15 December to 15 January at ski resorts in Austria and pass laws relating to what is happening in Croatia. Obviously he can! It's obvious it can, isn't it? It would be at least fair of the Government to commit that when it brings, when it takes on more power and benefits the power of the Parliament, then at least sits in one hall here on Mark's square and that at least at a session where all present ministers, or where ministers sit in the same hall, discuss the law, or regulation, to observe some procedure and that it must therefore be a session that is certainly not a phone session. Here I would appeal if it could be incorporated into this bill, so it must be a session of "face in face", not a mobile session of the government or a tele-session of the government, but simply to see the ministers, look into each other's eyes, to say that we have opened all the mail we received about this regulation, we have read that regulation that we vote on today and vote on that regulation in a way that is good or that it is simply not good. I also appeal to the Deputy Secretary of State to see in Article 1, I do not think he is in line with the Law on the implementation of the State Budget, because we gave this power to the Government in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. Although for the 2005 budget, I do not doubt that the ruling majority will allow equal authority for the 2006 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43279	Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members and colleagues, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I simply think that a delegation or the government's authority to regulate regulations on issues that are part of the Parliament's work is not a subject that can be crossed by such a word, butts and here the debate, or the proposer theoretically represents the bill that it is allowed. That's not controversial. But if we decide on something every year, it is likely that this House, by adopting the Constitution, has provided for a limitation of duration and power for a year in order for each time giving new authority to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the regulations from the section of this Parliament, has also given a report at the same time as we are doing so in practice, and we are working on a theoretical debate. counterpart Mršić has indeed stated well now whether the reason for the regulation is when the government can adopt the regulation by telephone. Is it such a matter of nature that you could bring it on the phone and that you couldn't wait. Here's another example. When we discuss the report, you will see, the government of 167 adopts a regulation on the extension of the law throughout the year. So the 15th ceases with its work, the constitutional session of the Parliament, and the government brings the 16th, and it is questionable whether the government has at all the power to extend the whole law, its duration for a year. A year! If we add that the government and cannot extend the period of the law for a year, as this regulation says, this law says that all regulations can act while the law is in force. So the government can't extend the law for a year, because this law only gives it a year's chance for the regulations to apply. So the regulations stop ex-legislative. This is why it happens that there is absolutely no legal certainty in Croatia. If we add that all government regulations end up taking effect on the day of publication in the "National Journal", which means that the government can manipulate the date of the regulation's entry into force. So she can manipulate, even if she said eight days. And another thing, the regulation doesn't stand until it works. It stands in the law, standing in the Constitution. But since the regulation is published in "The People's Journal" and it does not work for a year practically, this one could work because at the same time the law and the regulation will be passed and the regulation will act in parallel for a year, the regulation will act as long as the law to which we have given power to the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in force. So in fact, we often have that the government is calling on the regulation not to notice that the law has expired its deadline. We have a lot of examples like that. Unfortunately, when we are doing a report on the regulations that the government is making, we can easily go over it, and then legal certainty gets worse every day in the Republic of Croatia, and we are increasingly increasing the government's powers to regulate the areas of the Croatian Parliament's work. I don't think that's the aim of either the Parliament or the representative body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43281	Thank you. Final review. ... Who? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replica, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43282	Your Honor, Mr. President. I would like to rephrase to my dear colleague, Leki, in the part where he says, and in a negative context, that we are discussing this proposed law at the principle level, at the theoretical level, and that we are not dedicated enough in this respect to the specific provisions of the editor of sublegal acts, the very content of them, and in that sense what they practically mean in terms of let's say to the Croatian everyday. However, this is point 1 which really has nothing to do with point 35 of the consolidated text, because, under point 35, of course, there will be a report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. So under that point, the Croatian Parliament will discuss the report on all the regulations and the content or specific meaning of which you have spoken. I do not see, absolutely in any sense, that this bill of law, so the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's power to regulate certain issues, i.e. the Government is being transferred, so it is a legislative delegation, that it is being discussed in another way, that it is proposed in another way than it did in a concrete example by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43283	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43284	Thank you very much to my colleague Tomljanović. He gave me a chance to say it. Does the Parliament think that the Regulation amending the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, which was passed on 31 August, is indeed a regulation ad hoc? Isn't this Croatia spinning in privatisation problems for at least 10 years and the government is using August 31st to pass the Law Extension Regulation and to extend the validity of the law on conversion and privatisation. Well, my colleague, I think it's really out of line, not out of line. ... And what are we going to do here now? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43285	Thank you. And final review, Deputy Secretary of State Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43286	Thank you very much. In addition to what is said, I can only say that the Government will remain on this proposal, that we will not accept and that we will not go with our own amendments and that we think that the text, or the bill, is a quality regulation and does not go beyond the constitutional frameworks of what the Government is allowed by the Croatian Constitution. I would not specifically comment on Article 2, I think that his nomotechnics and legal arrangements do not cause any elections or anything, but solves one possible situation in a quality way. The government remains on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43287	I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's vote this out. Please engage to determine the quorum. Score. 90. We have a quorum. The final proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues contained in the Croatian Parliament's section of the amendments was delivered within the deadline and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Score. I find that, with 77 votes for, 13 abstentions and 10 against, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43290	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs. Let me explain this project in a few sentences. In early February 2005, the Croatian government adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of this loan agreement with the World Bank. In mid-February, final negotiations were held, paraphrasing the text of the contract, and signed by the finance minister on 2 May this year. This 35m-euro loan to the World Bank to Croatia will co-finance a project of social and economic recovery, the total value of which is 60m euros. The share of the state budget in financing the project is 25m euros. It shall be secured from 2005 to 2008. The aim of this project is to promote the economic and social recovery of undeveloped and war-affected areas of special state care and to increase social cohesion in these areas, thereby speeding up the process of returning the population to those areas. This multi-sectoral project will also contribute to a more efficient coordination of national authorities and local communities, as well as the partnership of all stakeholders on the development and implementation of a comprehensive regional development strategy. Realisation of the project will cover areas of special state concern for the first, second and third groups in 13 counties that include the war on the affected areas. The project consists of 4 components. First, investment at Community level of €36.5 million with 3 sub-components: social inclusion that allows better access to social services in the war-torn population and other vulnerable and marginalised groups. The second sub-component of economic recovery, financial assistance to existing small and medium-sized enterprises, and cooperatives to strengthen the capacity of new and existing cooperatives, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and institutions that support their development. And the third sub-component of investments in small infrastructure, educational, health, cultural and other institutions, waterways, roads, sewage, sewerage, electricity, other municipal infrastructure, business centres, networking of manufacturers and traders. The second component of this loan, i.e. the project, is the demining of 17m euros. Third institutional development of 3.5m euros, strengthening capacity in the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development in the regional development planning and management segment, supporting regional self-government in the development of regional operational programmes and development of institutions at local level. The fourth component, management of the 3m-euro project itself, financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation of the project component. It will be established in the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development of Project Coordination Units, but regional units will also be established for three areas, eastern and western Slovenia, Banija and Kordun, as well as Dalmatia and Liku. Their competence will be co-ordination with the ministry, local communities and the private sector, a transparent selection of micro-projects based on established criteria of similarity, control of procurement procedures, technical reporting, monitoring and evaluation of implementation micro-projects, and in each of the 13 counties covered by this project will be directly involved in the implementation of the project. The demining component will be implemented by the Croatian Mine Action Centre. The loan amounting to 35 million euros shall be paid on a 10-year maturity of 5 years and interest rate of 2.72%, and fixed costs of the initial fee of 0.5% of the total loan amount, and 0.75% of the unused loan amount in the first 4 years, followed by 0.75%. The loan will be used by 2009 when the project will be completed. Since this Loan Treaty creates financial obligations for the Republic of Croatia at the time of the implementation of the loan and loan payments, i.e. in the period from 2005 to 2019, the contract is subject to confirmation, and in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. The following is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass this law confirming the Loan Treaty for a project of social and economic recovery between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43291	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Club, Honored Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43292	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty for a project of social and economic recovery between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This is one in a series of loans that the Croatian state has started to use since 94. So, one of the loans in the recovery sequence and, I would say, fostering the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. We heard from the secretary of state and in the material that we received that the Republic of Croatia has since 93th been a member of this international, international Bank for Reconstruction and Development and we say, that's when it started to use first loans. It is recalled that in 94, the first major $128m loan was used for war-torn areas. Since then, about $1.8 billion has been used to date. This objective of this loan is, as said in the introduction, to promote war-torn areas and undeveloped areas in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the intention is that what the Croatian state itself from its funds does not have enough money to use this loan and it is envisaged, as it is said, for several areas in 13 counties. This large part of the 36-and-a-half million-euro loan is on its own, from the loan itself will be 23 million, and 13 and a half million from the state budget is currently being invested in the counties where economic development should be encouraged along with all those segments that should encourage the economy, as well as all the social elements that are relevant to the life of one community. Everything is entrusted to the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and he is obliged and he has already formed the Management Board. And to better coordinate three regional coordination units were established as we heard from the introduction, for Slavonia, for central Croatia and for the coastal part. This way, through the 4 years ahead of us, everything envisaged and realized in the project will be tried and the loan withdrawal is expected to be the last deadline of 30 September 2009. The start of the payment is 2010, over 10 years it's been paid, it starts for 5 years. The interest is 2.72%, therefore, the conditions are favourable and it is expected that everything in this project will be done from this loan. It is important to stress that the loan obtained from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has the state's participation and that is the amount which is not negligible. This merely points to the fact that the borrower must take it very seriously and must use it precisely for what the project is intended, which means that the repayment of the loan that will be made in 10 years will be as effective as possible, i.e. that everything invested in the economy is able and involved in the recovery of the loan. Due to all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supported the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43293	Thank you. Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43294	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. To date, the Republic of Croatia signed 25 long-term loans totaling over $800 million with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In addition, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development allocated 35 gifts to the Republic of Croatia with a total value of about $35m. According to the amount of loans granted and the technical assistance provided, the loans from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development represent the most significant source of foreign financial support to the Republic of Croatia. There are signs of loans from the 128m-dollar recovery facility in 94, via loans for healthcare, highway renewal, development of the capital market, loans for the emergency renewal and demining project, loans for the financing of water supply in the Split area, for the words traffic route, etc. As the secretary of state said, meaning, the objective of this loan is to encourage economic and social, under quotes, revitalisation of these wars affected areas of the Republic of Croatia in the total amount, meaning the International Bank of 35m euros to what the Republic of Croatia must tie up in the period until 2008. 25 million euros. There's no dispute, IDS is for this loan. These loans are generally the most favourable loans that can be obtained on the money market. However, I would like to say that no loan of any similar kind or species, thank God that it is not for the restoration of war-torn areas, has come to the territory of the County of Istria. Large funds have been allocated to the river route. IDS was for, for Kaštelan Bay, Split's water line IDS was for. To finance long-term investment, rehabilitation, Dalmatian, Zadar, Varazdinska Banka clearly IDS was for. For highways IDS has always been for, but once again I will say that out of these billions of 800 million dollars the Republic of Croatia has borrowed money from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development de facto no kuna, not a dollar, has come to the territory of the County of Istria. But now it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It is important that some other lines, which are the 150m euros that we discussed here at 6 or 7 months for the revitalisation of cities, etc., do not bypass all Istrian cities. I'm thinking about Buzet first of all, and I want to believe that the secretary of state will honor, under quotes, some preliminary arrangements. On this occasion, clearly, when we talk about loans that are due to the Republic of Croatia, we can also talk about external debt. The truth is, on the state side, it is slowing down at the moment, but in general, the debt is increasing as the debt of the state is tightened on the domestic money market. It is also clear that a country without loans would slow down its entire development. But I'm reporting more for something else, and that's to say that this country has lost foreign investment, and we don't actually have our own capital for our own battery. Why am I saying that? In 2004, 314 million dollars came to Croatia, let's call it foreign investment. Mostly through the form of conversion and privatisation. In 2003, before that 479 million dollars will say that in the past 2 years 800 million dollars have come to the territory of the Republic of Croatia on this basis. In the same period of 2 years, about $5 billion of foreign investments, mostly greenfield investments, have entered Slovakia, while mostly money comes to us for the takeover of state-owned companies. And that eventually led to one Slovakia exporting $30 billion a year and Croatia only $8 billion a year. What do we do? It is clear to accept such credit arrangements, but also to open a debate for this speaker on the non-income of relevant capital. The problem in this country is that there is an impression in both the media and the public that Croatia is against every investment in this area and then we should not be surprised that the World Bank de facto places us in the business world bottom. And that's the point, we don't want the capital, but that's why we want the loans. It would be far smarter if the loans were less desired, and we prefer capital more, but we are all turned upside down anyway, but when this is the case, it is not surprising that one incredible economic misunderstanding between Zagreb which currently has more than 20 thousand dollars of GDP and, on the other hand, apart from Istria, all other Croatian counties make income per capita less than the Republic average. For the last time I'm going to tell the IDS is for but I want to believe that the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, etc., will not forget about the distribution of the funds of that loan that we ratified here, or the contracts that we ratified there sometime before the summer period.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43295	Thank you. The HSS Club's esteemed representative, Ante Markov, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43296	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since 1994, when the first emergency recovery loan was used to date, Croatia has drawn a whole series of different loans that were to be harmonised and normised and the economic and social framework in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, it is unquestionable that today, in both economic and social terms, the situation in terms of equality of development in the Republic of Croatia is not good. TO have neighborhoods and regions that stand extremely well at the income per capita and in economic condition and in social sensitivity, of course we have different areas that are not in the same country. I am clearly referring to the area of Slavonia, relatively to the region of Dalmatia and like, which apparently in the way of showing income per capita is lagging behind. Of course, lagging behind the fundamental real sector of the economy is also bringing social problems. This loan that would be taken on itself takes a very demanding role to create new quality social content in the areas most affected. Of course, in a situation where income per capita range moves from 20 thousand to 20 times lower in some parts of the country, the question of the even development of our country is raised. And because of this, it is high time, the time to try very serious measures with intervention, fiscal measures, tax policy measures to give opportunity to those regions that are lagging behind because these injections are simply not enough to make such differences that exist. Therefore, these loans must necessarily follow the changes in fiscal policy, we must ask ourselves a fundamental question, is it acceptable, is it good, by respecting everything the city of Zagreb represents for Croatia as the capital, that income from a company located in Zagreb provides more income than in one county the total economy. And is it time to set ourselves a single task that we cannot correct such misunderstandings with such tiny clearly needed instruments, such as loans, but that we must seriously consider the overall fiscal policy of the Republic of Croatia, the subsidy policy and the policy of our relationship across these parts. Is it time, apart from the headquarters of certain companies, that the perceptional content of the company, the business that is located across Croatia, the origins from which this large capital base is being drawn from, therefore we must understand that if we do not create a new redistribution of the total social wealth in the Republic of Croatia and do not value those regions that are looking for it, which need it for many reasons, of course are not the only economic and social reasons, and the survival of citizens in these areas, the fact that Croatia is as strong as its poorest foothold, speaks in favour of the fact that we have to deal with exactly that way of redistributing social wealth. Because the fact today is that gentlemen of Croatian citizens are the most in charge of citizens in Europe. Last year, according to one survey, each Croat was in charge of 2,000 euros, while in all countries in the region it was 640 euros. Our neighbours are Slovenians, while everyone remains far below that level. Therefore, it is evident that debt through credit responsibilities, loans and is not the best answer for such growing problems, disproportionateness, structural unadjustment and not having a basis for strengthening the country's real sector. Which is definitely the only one who can change these disproportionates and these negative tendencies that arise, which are reported to have reached almost 24 billion and 25 billion public debt. I would therefore like to say, on behalf of the HSS Club, that we are of course in favour of these measures which have one fire character, which do not have the character of a lasting feature that will strike a balance in the Croatian regions in the Croatian counties. We will support this proposal, but we want to warn that these measures, unfortunately, will not move but will increase our exposure rate of external debt. The real sector will not get full support, that in these areas it strengthens because it requires a change in the country's economic strategy but of course it is a broader point and is not the subject of this debate, but I just want to warn you. For this reason, let me conclude, the HSS Club will, of course, support this loan proposal but would like to warn and propose to the Government to open a full debate on the even development of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible with the establishment of fiscal policy measures, measures of incentives and measures of economic recovery and the entry of foreign investment into areas that are not only of particular interest but simply calling for investment funds, which I say do not necessarily need to have the character of a new debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43297	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43298	Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly refer to the adoption of this law. So I can say that in principle I support the adoption of this law. Therefore, we should also adopt a socio-economic recovery and agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So what I would have noticed goes about the same way Mr. Damir Cain said about the position of the Istrian County. We can also talk about the position of the Međimurje County, not only this, but other projects that we have concluded with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. There are more than twenty such projects from the emergency loan to the loan for the restoration of the Rijeka route. In all these projects, I don't even know if the Međimurje County has participated any concept of scope and I'm afraid it won't be in this case at all. In fact, we don't have an explicitly stated location here either, so to which specific counties these loans will be directed. There are talk of selected counties, there are several selected counties, there are undeveloped and war-affected areas etc. So there are no concrete positions where these funds will be spent and where these funds will be spent. It is certain that the Međimurje County should also be the one that could participate in one of these projects, and I also think in this project, especially in the part of the project that is talking about the investment programme in the local community. In particular, point (b) speaks of economic recovery projects supporting the development of agricultural and non-agricultural activities that contribute to the creation of income in local communities. I can only remind here that the Međimurje County in the Republic of Croatia is at the very bottom of an average net salary. So I have a comparison of the first six months since 2004. 2005. In 2005, the average salary in Međimurje County was 2 thousand 852 kuna and 4 thousand 330 kuna in the Republic of Croatia. Here, that's one of the criteria that you might... that the Međimurje County is involved in this project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I also think it would be much better if those funds were not shared by the county rather than by the units of local self-government, i.e. in municipalities and cities, because this can help people where it is most needed more specifically and directly. Here, I have the budget of a municipality in Međimurje County that is in the system of special state care. That's the local community. There are over 2,000 people in this municipality. Its budget amounts to 2 million kuna and of these 2 million kunas 940 thousand kunas, so half of the budget concerns budget assistance mostly from the state budget and capital investments. So these are also municipalities that would according to certain criteria i.e. By the criteria that are in line with this law, they could participate in the loan. And that, I agree with my predecessor, Mr. Markov, who spoke about the fact that we don't really need such loans if we were to make a quality redistribution of this budget cake and not that we have a situation for all municipalities, cities and counties to remain five to six percent of the budget and they are therefore dependent on any kind of help, whether from a state level or from another level and we think that we have to do this almost qualitatively. I hope that happens soon. So, I support this law because it will still help some areas in the Republic of Croatia but therefore I appeal that the Međimurje County in the future or at least some places in my county will be found in future in such loan agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43299	Thank you. Five-minute debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43300	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I would once again point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of such a law but I would like to point out one fact here is that these past fourteen years since we had intensive cooperation with the World Bank for Truth, we have come to the situation that our financial reiting and stability of the Republic of Croatia has been evaluated in that bank that since the first loan agreement we have concluded with 8.5% interest here we have come to conclude such favourable loans for such quality programmes with interest of 2.2% and that sinis period of five years or ten years. What I would like, by the way, to encourage the fact that the World Bank's first loan was used in Istria for the Butoniga Development Programme. It is a loan the Republic of Croatia took because it was concluded before the Homeland War. It was spent on 100 million loans credited by the World Bank to the development of a water supply system in Istria. About 60 million were spent. The work was suspended almost four years from 1990 to 1994. The guarantees were then given by the Croatian Government or the Croatian State. And not only that, she even paid off the war for the principal and interest that was there in 1993 and 1994, and of course, that way, and of course it's all 100 million dollars, not only those spent 62 and 60, but the total amount of the loan has been paid off. We also support the government's efforts to provide quality resources for the development of our homeland in all counties and all places of the Republic of Croatia with these loans and of course in other activities and other programmes. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43301	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43302	Mr. Shirac is wrong and he's making false facts. It's true that the World Bank's first loan is, say, "used in Istria," but the loan was concluded there in 89-90, so during the former state. It wasn't $100 million. It was $28 million. Finally, the state is not so centralised after 90 years that it has not raised more than 90% of the funds that have been made in the area should not even participate in the return of the credit arrangement. However, since the entire structure collapsed in the 1990s, I do not only think here about war but primarily about the reform of centralisation, it was fully expected that part of that $28m loan would take over itself. But in particular, Istra didn't get any of these loans from any of them. First such loan has started to use [[Thank you very much.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43303	Thank you, dear fellow Cain, thank you! Final review of the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43304	Here, an amendment was received from the Office, or the Legislative Committee. It's nomotechnical in nature and we accept it entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43305	I'm closing the debate on this bill. Secondly, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Loan Treaty for a project of social and economic recovery between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the amendment proposed by the Committee on Legislatives, was adopted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that 101 has been adopted unanimously by the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43308	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here is a brief explanation with a very short Law on Amendments to the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. The amendments to the Law propose that the deadline for the completion of the revision of conversion and privatisation be extended from 30 September 2005, so, this year, to a new deadline of 30 September 2006. For the simple reasons that we all know well and the debate that follows today in the Parliament of these days on privatisation, the conversion shows a very great interest, and it is also a very solid and unequivocal commitment and the Croatian Government that, by prelonging this deadline for another year, the time to complete the process of review, privatisation, that through these discussions, possible and new conclusions in the Croatian Parliament, this process ends and I would say as much quality as possible, in a better way. Next, in Article 2 of this Act, the amendment of the law is proposed to put an end to the validity of the provisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation, which was extended on September 1st of this year to the completion of the revision, conversion and privatisation and Article 3 here is a single technical error, in fact, the proposal to enter into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal, not 8 days after its publication in the National Journal, and through amendments to this proposal, this amendment will then be believed and respected. Here, as soon as again, this proposal for a law, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the law on the revision of conversion and privatisation, is wanted to provide room for the quality of this very extensive and large work, such as the revision of conversion and privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43309	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, honourable representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43310	It is quite incorrect, Mr. President, that Mr. Minister has said that the aim of this law is for the revision to finish its work. The audit has been completed, the state audit has completed its procedure but the government has persistently refused to allow what is the result of the investigation, i.e. the finding of state audits and to resort to its end for, in relation to, and for what was ultimately the task and such debt, the deadline of the state audit itself. And that might best be your indicator, because we at the same session, this session, we have another law, we have a Penal Code where you keep refusing what you were and the conclusions and we're going to do it on the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43311	My colleagues, Antičević, correct the incorrect allegations. You were correcting the minister's position on what was the purpose of this Law. So don't, it's not true, it's not true, the government's representative, the minister as well as the MPs indicate what's the point of some law and you're correcting his view of what he thinks is the objective of the law. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43312	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government and other government officials, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The purpose of the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation is certainly an individual analysis but also an assessment for each society individually, as the process of conversion and privatisation was carried out. Of course, that assessment also includes the qualification of possible illegal conduct. At the request of interested or other entities. Of course, that assessment can also be given by the state's attorney's office to encourage the police, to encourage other state authorities, but also by official duty. In the process so far, I am assessing on behalf of the Club that it has been demonstrated that both the State Audit Office and the State Attorney's Office have successfully identified illegal practices. The HSS Club holds that, with the regular work of the State Audit Office that it can monitor and, this Office can monitor the privatisation process from its jurisdiction in the future. We believe that privatisation will not be completed by 30 September 2006, and the state in our court, the HSS Club cannot deny the control of legality and privatisation and those future privatisation processes. If we were to adopt this Act this way, it would practically mean that after 30 September 2006, the whole business would fall to the state's attorney's office and that would be a possible solution, but of course it would have to consider whether this regular walk we now have, a certain provision of the State's Audit Office, the State's Attorney's Office, of course with the rest of the state's authorities, was interrupted. We have reason to believe that this established methodology continues and that it would not be reasonable to limit the period of validity of the law. We therefore propose not to replace it with 30 September 2006 but to end the privatisation process, possibly some shorter deadline by 30 September 2007, which is probably some minimum measure, otherwise we will come to a situation that again, in 7, 8 months or a year, with the same explanation from the promoter, is likely to extend the deadline by one year, I think it is simply simply unnecessary. If this suggestion of the HSS Club were to be accepted, it would be necessary in these amendments and the additions of the Law to bring in another newspaper, of course we leave it to the Proposer to assess this and what I'm saying will not in any way insist on anything but we think it's rational. Therefore, a deadline should also be set for the submission of a request from the authorising officer for future privatisations. We believe that future privatisations should fall under some kind of state, some kind of state audit. We have no doubts that interrupting the law on the revision of conversion and privatisation would actually be sending the wrong message to the frustrated public, frustrated by the way the conversion and privatisation took place. I don't think we're going to send the wrong message to the business world either, because simply the business world, the ones with the interest of investing in Croatia, has learned that every process, every investment, every serious change, is simply subject to review. And even regular business. So I think that serious capital is not afraid of reviewing, and for this very reason we suggest that we leave this law in force for future privatisations as well. We also have no doubts that conversion and privatisation is actually cancer early in the new time of Croatia, so the Parliament does not seem to be restrictive in the validity of this Law. I don't think the government should be restrictive or simply to tell us the easiest thing to do until the privatisation of this law is over. The lines of work of the State Audit Office, the relationship with the State's Attorney's Office, the relationship with the police, the other, with other authorities, and we simply deny ourselves one unnecessary torment to discuss it once more or more times. It's just our suggestion. Of course we won't insist if the government doesn't decide, but we hold it to be rational. And allow at the end the government gentlemen another suggestion. We cannot submit amendments in this sense because the subject of amending this Act is limited to this single article that you propose, but we hold that in order to make it more efficient and sanction, and in the following points we will see that sanctioning actually illegal practices in conversion and privatisation is not effective. It's definitely not effective. In order for the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation to consider additional powers of the Government to be final and test for the Government as seriously as it means to sanction and directly involve its fingers in sanctions for illegal conduct, that in certain cases, we leave it to the Government to consider, to qualify and quantify them in those cases where the State's Attorney's Office or the State's Audit Office has established illegal operations, the illegal process of conversion and privatisation, the Government has the right to "ad hoc" to annul conversion and privatisation. Undo it. We will talk more about these topics of course in these next points, but I think it would be good to accept these suggestions of the HSS Club simply because we finally all show a little more good faith that what has been found in this most shameful, most unscrupulous, most immoral, ethical process since the Croatian state was created which is called conversion and privatisation, that we all show a little more will and responsibility and ultimately that those who are guilty be guilty, who were not, who are not to blame, be definitely off of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43313	Thank you very much. HDZ Club, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43314	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this Law on Amendments to the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation. This Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation was adopted in 2001. In it we all saw, we all had great expectations of that Law. We felt that this Law would solve many things, that many privatisations would be annulled. That justice will come very soon by that law. But that law actually set off one huge, huge job at most. And we have seen this in fact from all the previous reports of the State Office for Auditing how much all procedures, how many documents in the privatisation process of a large number of entities covered by this Law had to be implemented by our State Audit Office. In all the reports, we've also given recognition to the State Audit Office because he's done a huge job, a big job where professional people were hired. But we can't get the impression that the other part that follows is missing. The sanctioning of irregularities that have undoubtedly been found here in all the reports so far is not in that scope and, of course, they are lagging behind and that is why it is obvious that our people are frustrated. And that's why this whole job that's been done is questionably its purpose and its purpose. Given the very large scope of my work, this law only requires that the deadline for the completion of the audit be extended. Here it is proposed to be September 30th, 2006 and I can say on behalf of the Club that I believe that the State Audit Office has well assessed the work that exists before it and there is no reason not to trust it. By agreeing with fellow Tomcic, who said that it may not be necessary to limit to 39, but the State Audit Office may still be able to assess during the session if it considers that the job is longer, we can go with such an undefined period of validity of this Law. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is interested in finding irregularities, to be concrete, to indicate exactly how the Law states the names and last names of persons who have committed irregularities. In order to provide reports to the competent state authorities, the State lawyer shall continue to take all necessary actions and all necessary measures to sanction any irregularities made in the conversion process. And so this is just a law that actually has a deadline to carry out the revision shifts in a year. The real debate actually about the revision, about the conversion itself going to the next points. This is a "de facto" just warming for the next points that go. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of amendments to the Law on Audit which therefore extends by one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43315	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Kola Bošnjakovic said about one moment, I will freely interpret: "We were expecting penalties, and we launched a big procedure and the whole business actually became as a questionable goal and a questionable meaning." I just hope it's a lapus. I think the whole job has a very clear goal, that it has a very clear sense that everything that has been illegally done in the process of conversion and privatisation is properly sanctioned. How it will be sanctioned is a matter of the potential of the entire system to be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43317	And the second amendment. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable colleague said that the State Audit had assessed the affairs and proposed the Law. That's not true. The State audit is not the proposer of the Law. This could only be carried out by the government, and a representative of the ruling party in its reasoning led to absurdity. We've done nothing by law, nor have the effects been achieved. She's been hired by a state audit. We've actually dragged her away from her job. But we still suggest she's still doing it. So I think, what's the point of the bill then? Therefore, it is incorrect that the revision proposed the law, rather than the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and had to say what objectives the law can achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43319	It's something else, colleague Leko, that the state's audit estimated a year to be necessary, not to propose the law. On behalf of the SDSS Club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43320	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. This, of course, is not the first time we've ever come up with amendments to the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. So far, attempts as we know have not yielded results that could be assessed in any way positive. The effects of privatisation as it has been implemented today and so much pressure not only on the economic but on the overall social life in Croatia, that it is rightly considered one of the basic, national, political topics in our country. The way privatisation was carried out with us is actually the way that it opened up a space for moral values, for social values. A way of absolutely humiliating what exists among most citizens and our country as well as any country, which is a sense of legality and a sense of justice. In other words, the privatisation process is exactly what needs to be considered the birthplace of lawlessness, the birthplace of amoral, the birthplace of political and any other immorality. And as much as this Parliament here may not be able to change those elements of the negativity of conversion and privatisation that are already behind us, that we already live by a standard, a life like this, by the state of production as we live. But what this Parliament can certainly do is try to restore the credibility of some values without which our society can't go on. And so much of this question is really a matter of the state's attorney's office. This question is indeed a matter of our judiciary and it is of course a question of our parliamentary, political question. Because people will rightly say that we're all wet, that we've all cooked in one way or another, and those who had more power and those who didn't speak or distance ourselves loud enough from it. Because without that, without such a language, without such a speech, there is not only no healthy production, there is not only no healthy economy, there is not only no healthy ownership relations, healthy finances, but what is particularly important is there is no morality and there is no political correctness in the country and there is no political credibility in the country. There is so much in this House on us as advocates to try to convince the public that we are able to reverse this process and that we are able to fight for a different relationship with this place of birth than I said, and this is indeed the birthplace and immorality and illegality and political unbelief with us in Croatia. In this sense, the SDSS Club of course welcomes the adoption of this law, but also providing a chance to try again from the title of state institutions at least as much as possible to reduce the bad effects and stop those who are ahead of us yet. There aren't many but there are when it comes to conversion and privatisation. And on the other hand, to try to bear witness with this amendment to the law in what has failed so far, which is to say that the public is aware that this Parliament, its representatives and the people representing the state and the state power, any element of the state government that can restore what has been lost and what we cannot repair in that sense, but we can restore which is a matter of trust in the institutions, that is, a question of trust in some general interest that has proved that here is simply not possible. And now allow me two words to say about the problem of privatisation and the minority in this House, because there has been no talk so far, and there has been no talk in the public. Not because I have an illusion that something can change or not, because I have an illusion that something can be fixed. I don't believe it, but I think you should say it. I think it should be said that they are members of national minorities when it comes to privatisation because of war circumstances, I agree with many who will say that if there were no war, it would have been different. Had it not been for part of the Serbs involved in the war on the side of Croatia would have been different. But it should also be said that even where there was no such thing, it should be said that even those who were not involved in war activities, unfortunately, there was no correct, fair relationship, people remained excluded from the possibility of privatisation. This applies, of course, to people who are re-integrated today in Eastern Slavonia, that is true for people who have returned and that is true for people who have remained living in the urban areas of Croatia by sharing the fate of all those who are war victims and who have suffered war horrors. If we look at what the environments are like in this respect, regardless of whether it's one or another ethnic group, then we can actually see today that the state has unfortunately not done what it was meant to do, and today, in fact, most of the objects or most of what was once a factory or land or anything else actually in the hands of the state including apartments. And instead of the state deciding to assign them to local self-government units or to have the state decide to somehow find those who will be in the right sense words or shareholders or owners of things stand as if they were frozen. And the few potentials that exist in these areas when it comes to conversion and privatisation, unfortunately, are actually without a chance, either because the state is three, and because it keeps its paws on it, completely irrationally, either because they're assigned to some people who use these capacities just to exploit what the state allows for areas of special state concern, and these are different incentives, different privileges, different loans or I don't know what else. And nothing else. Maybe it's not a job for the state's attorney's office. But, colleagues and colleagues, it is for us regardless of whether anyone is a Croat or a Serb, from the HDZ, from the SDP, Hungary or anyone else. So it's simply a matter of general good. We cannot allow such a significant, vital part of the state simply to fail without any chance of the returnees and settlers and Croats and Serbs living there, and I don't know who doesn't. Here, so I have no illusions that some things can be fixed, but even if there is no illusion then the job of us sitting here is to create in public a sense of different values, for a different approach, and all in order, not just some special interests, but actually mobilizing for the common good. Privatisation in the way it was produced and carried out in our country has also ruined the feeling of good, general good, and it has destroyed what has really been a common good in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43321	HNS representative club, PGS. ... I didn't notice you calling. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, just please, don't pick up the plate in a second, I can't register it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43322	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would correct Mr Pupavec's claim that there was no correct relationship between members of the national minority in both the part and those members who remained in unoccupied parts of Croatia in the context of the application of the right to convert and privatise. National minorities also had the right to enter those shares' values as well as all other employees and former employees, therefore those in those parts of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43323	Thank you. Second correction, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43324	I also wanted to correct Mr. Pupovac's incorrect claim in the part where it was generalising that in all of Croatia and in war-torn, undestructed areas it was the privatisation that devastationed businesses, abolished jobs, so I'll just say it's not true. So, individual cases are saying the opposite. I come from the Cross, I'll say only two examples. So, the large company Mlinar and the Work Cross spent their privatisation in quite a way good for the workers, preserved jobs, increased profits, hired new people, and so here in that part it denied generalization and did not need to generalise things that could not be made public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43325	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, Club of HNS Representatives, PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, what is proposed by these brief amendments to the law? To extend the period of validity of the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation by one year. Why is that necessary or necessary? I failed to understand neither the reasoning nor the written form of the Law, nor the carefully listening to Mr. Minister today. So I still don't understand why the government feels that this law has to be in force for another year. Why does it have to go on and why for exactly a year? What will go into review after we extend the validity of this Law? Is there a list of companies that have not yet been audited, not carried out or will they have to go to audit? How many of these companies are there? What kind of companies are these? Why wasn't it covered by the audit so far if it wasn't? It might be a good idea to get that information if we knew the size of the State Audit business. Is it possible in a year to do so or is it possible that we should extend the law for two, three years or another term to take as long as it has to be on time? I would like to remind you that not so long ago, by discussing the finding of the State Audit, we received information that said: "In the period from 24 May to 23 July 2001, which was the legal deadline for the submission of the request for review, the State Audit Office received a thousand 357 requests for 927 companies where authorised applicants for review appeared." A, that State audit is using the obligation and the right set out in Articles 6 and 7. The law itself established data on companies that should be covered by the audit and that this figure stood at a thousand and five hundred and fifty-six companies. In all 556 audits carried out, the State Audit Office gave the Parliament reports and a final report. At that time, there was no indication or speech, nor in the government's view that this report was accompanied by the need to extend the Law, that there was a need to continue the process of revision, conversion and privatisation and that there was something else to revise conversion or privatisation. Are we changing the list by this law, expanding the list of companies? I don't know. Are we changing the revision methodology? No, I don't. In that sense, everything remains. So we're extending the concept that has been so far for unknown reasons. Does this mean that the Office of State Audit will have to deal with the upcoming privatisations, perhaps Croatian electricity, forest, Croatian railways? Will they be privatised in the Privatisation Act or by a special law, as INA privatised by a special law? That's my third question. I'm afraid with this explanation and approach we're awakening a new false hope for people that now in a year of extension of the law something terribly important and significant is going to happen and that we're going to correct all the injustices, all the wrong moves, all the wrong ones find and bring them back to the beginning of the privatisation. I want to remind you, and we can agree with that or not, that the State Audit Office has presented to us the expectations of applicants of the requests they have divided into three groups. In the first group were former owners of nationalised assets, associations of small shareholders, trade unions, and other authorised representatives, such as ministries, local self-government, state attorneyship, administrations and members of supervisory committees. So what did the citizens of Croatia expect from the revision, conversion and privatisation? What was the expectation of the citizens of this country? The previous owners expected the cancellation of the conversion and privatisation because they did not participate in the conversion process, the review of the Privatisation Fund's administrative act on consent to the intended conversion, the establishment of property ownership rights on their property, the investigation of validity and legal acts, without the grounds for the confiscation, the natural return of property, the determination of the real value of the seized property and the acceleration of judicial and administrative proceedings. Which of these expectations have been achieved? The State Audit Office also taxed and briefly, I remind you that most of these expectations could not have been carried out through the revision, because the Law did not foresee it and it was not their business either. What were small shareholders expecting, trade unions? Unreal estimated value of social capital, sale of assets after conversion, poor business policy of administration, payment of shares by company assets, neglect of small shareholders and layoffs to employees, and repayment of funds paid for shares. What expectations have been met in these 1556 audits? The State Audit Office also said, almost a little, very little, because it couldn't have been the subject of an audit, or where it was the number of statutes of limitations and the number of judgments we already had on the case of the audit itself. And the third group of expectations when the audit requests were submitted by the ministries, local self-government, state attorneys and members of the supervisory boards, it states that these applicants did not state their reasons or highlight their expectations when giving these reasons. So we don't know their expectations. What do the citizens of Croatia now expect from the extension of the deadline for the revision? We're something else probably... But they expect what I said in the introduction, that in this year's time, everything that couldn't be fixed in 15 years will be fixed. [[You don't understand.]] I therefore appeal to Mr. Minister to inform us how many companies in this year should be covered by revision, conversion and privatisation and on the basis of which they estimate that the Office of State Audits can carry out a quality report within that year. If we don't get that information, so if we don't know who's going into the audit now, which should have been, if it should have been and who's going to need it, then we won't be able to support this law because we don't understand the purpose, the purpose of its extension and existence, and maybe we need to extend it for another five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43327	Thank you very much. Proposer of the law, Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43328	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Sometimes a short law with a brief explanation can cause great debates and dilemmas, obviously happening now. I would like once again to say very clearly, this amendment to the law only extends the period of validity of the law. That message I think is quite clear why it seems, because everything else would be closing a book called the revision of conversion and privatisation. The Croatian government does not want that. Maybe that's what the HNS MPs, the SDP, want. That's their reason. Perhaps because, in the extreme case and the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament since 2002, when the then Government is in charge and nothing has been done to discuss what may be discussed at this session of the Parliament, there may be reasons. I don't get into it, but I don't think it's correct to bring in the context of a proposal to amend the law where the period of validity of the law dealing with the revision of conversion and privatisation with the government's wish to hide something. Yes, I do, on the contrary. We want this process to continue, I agree with what the honourable parliamentary representative Mr. Tomcic said, the question of whether that year is enough, which will be everything... that will be discussed in this House and what duties will be given to the institutions and the Government to take on the progress of the audit and conversion and privatisation done so far. Will further audits already been made? It is also a matter of this body, the High House of the Croatian Parliament and others. But therefore, the intention of prolonging the deadlines in no way can be hidden, but the fact remains that the giving of still room for this problem and those companies that have been privatised and converted and the revision has been made, as well as some future ones, to be left open and thus agreeing with Mr Tomcic, in fact we deal with it continuously, and I think that the audits that have been carried out does not mean that some and the discussions and conclusions of this Assembly, as well as any other institutions, will not cause both the additional and addition of the audit and the additional demand. So why now that it's only prolonging and proposing a deadline prolongation becomes a question and a problem when I think it's a clear intention, the desire is not to close the issue and not end it, because the desire and the Croatian government that proposes these changes to the law to remove all irregularities, sanction, and why not so far, I think there will be discussions at the next points when we talk about sanctions, and there would also like to say that the amendments to this law that I think would go into content I really don't think can be the subject of debate today when we are doing, when the subject of changes are only the practical period of validity of the law, but that the content of the law can be sanctioned and will certainly be the subject of your discussions and some conclusions which will oblige the Government to do so on the content of the law itself and some other things in the coming period of certain steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43329	Thank you, too. We now have five corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43330	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The minister appears to be paying great attention to the SDP. The entire SDP has charged that the SDP is obviously against extending the deadline for the revision of the conversion, and that no SDP MP has yet to speak at all about this point. So either the minister is psychic or clearly speaking incorrect data which is wrong and I think you should apologize to both the foreigners and the SDP's Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43331	It is one point of view of the minister who, as far as I heard it, told him that the SDP appears to be against the closure of the privatisation book. Minister, please, Vukelic, be precise about what you thought and what you said under that. This will also prevent these unnecessary additional corrections of incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43332	Thank you, Mr. President. So I used the wording "it seems to me", not "it is", and it seems to me that Mrs. Ingrid Antičević spoke in a single replica of my opening explanation that we want to hide something and hide it as a government when we're finishing this deadline, so in that context I was also talking about possibly my feeling that maybe someone and wants us to end up with this law on the revision of conversion and privatisation. In no way did I say it was really SDP or HNS behind such positions standing firm. So if that's how you felt me then, and you realized it, then I apologized, I didn't mean it that way, but based on the debate and parliamentary representatives of the SDP and Mr. Lesar of the HNS, I concluded that perhaps there are such reflections.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43333	My colleagues and colleagues, I urge you to give up your corrections because it is done, the minister has made one impression that he has one feeling that you will correct the impression. You want to fix it? ... If you want, I'll make it clear to you, I will clearly not deny it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I have appealed to you to withdraw the corrections of incorrect allegations. The minister said he was under the impression that some MPs were considering it. Please, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43334	Mr. Minister said the SDP is against closing this story. The SDP is against fogging and throwing dust into the eyes, because you extend the deadlines of the audit, and by preventing and opening deadlines because we extended the deadlines for economic crime in the Criminal Code and made good incriminations, you are opposed to it, and you would prefer that the revision lasts another 10 years so that the procedure there becomes completely immeasurable and in such a way, so the truth should be told to people in the eyes. And what you've been imputing to us, so probably the subconscious went out and that's what you thought about yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43335	Comrade Antičević, you are looking for a correction and then you have a supplement in which you are imputing the minister of some intention and mental reservation again. I appeal again, it will be more reasonable not to go on these corrections of incorrect impressions. Dear Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43336	The minister incorrectly said that the extension of the period of application of this Law would actually extend the revision, i.e. to establish certain sanctions. This Law has established what the revision will do. The audit gave the final report. The law doesn't have any sanctions because they're regulated by other laws. Therefore, the deadline itself will not change anything if the text in other articles of the Law does not change. And as for this impression of SDP, the SDP still in its previous term, so two mandates ago had a proposal for a law on the revision of the conversion and privatisation that was passed just when the SDP was in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43337	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43338	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's claim to whom it appears or appear. So, Mr. Minister, we're not at the HNS Club to close the Book of Review of Conversion and Privatisation. As much as the basis of the conclusions we offered to the Croatian Parliament on this matter, we wanted the matter to come clean. But what seems to you is insisting that you give us arguments about your proposals and nothing else and nothing more and nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43339	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's giving up. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43340	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Here, as stated here in the explanation, the proposal proposes an extension of the deadline from 30 September 2005 to 30 September 2006, which should be quoted as saying: "because due to the extensive work and not the completion of the full revision, the full control of conversion and privatisation has not been carried out", a finished quote. However, if the gentlemen who propose this Law had read the State's Attorney's Office Report, that is, the state auditor we will later discuss, they would have understood that "the grandmother with the cookies had passed". This law, I'll say it's nothing but another throw of sand into the eyes of naive, revolting and deceived citizens. However, they should be told "as a pit, a pit". That's not what I said, that's what Royce said, but I can quote it there. In this country, you go to prison, gentlemen, for 5,000 kunas, but for 500 million kunas, you become the pillar of society around which the government, the former one, the future one, will still dance as someone weighs 500 million kuna. We all know that no honest work could have become the owner of any "Lura" or "Riviers", or "Anite", or tanker sailing, or "Lance", etc. And yet people are owners of Lourne and Rivera and Anita and tanker sailing, and they were also Lance. And how is that possible? Because our system has consciously installed a mistake, not to say the virus, that it can be done, means it can be hijacked if you are clearly unscrupulous enough to get into it. And why wouldn't one who was in that position get into it when no one answered for it. No one answered. And that is why it is good to read the opinion or report of the Committee of the Croatian Court of Justice on 27 September, which meant yesterday, which literally says: "class, urn number, etc., the report shows that 54% of the cases were resolved by rejection. Of that 48.5% due to an old-fashioned persecution that occurred prior to the State's Attorney's office's application. 18 people have been charged, and the courts have reached four verdicts." Such results certainly did not meet public expectations, etc., etc., that I do not read it. So it was a legal state, say, on Kutla and after a year and a half, and he was released from custody. Today he's a successful, let's say, entrepreneur with the fact that he died because he was a metaphor of conversion. And others who, in the same way, have come to capital today through maybe and party financing affect which laws will be sent to the procedure and perhaps who will be the minister. What am I saying? None of this law. That's what we should do, the people would say, "to hang a cat on a tail." I'll say what should be done, but before that. The Croatian courts, once again, have issued 4 convictions for conversion and privatisation in such a way that two sentences have been imposed and 2 unconditional fines. So, two paroles, two fines. Now, you might think that the team involved in these proceedings was hard to pay in the end for several tens of thousands of kuna. Our judiciary, gentlemen, is rotten. Our judiciary depends on large capital. I'm not going to mention examples here right now. I could, I could, where, in 200, 300 kuna, investment of 40 or 50 million euros is lost. Mr. Bajic knows what I mean, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43341	Comrade Cain, please don't generalize. Don't make one branch of power, judge the power of judgment a rotten one. Don't generalize.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43342	In the judiciary, if, after a thousand 556 audited conversions, 2 suspended sentences and 2 fines, you cannot trust. Unfortunately, the Liburnia case shows that the government has also lost confidence. So what do we do? Take care of new privatisations to make these privatisations transparent and to be implemented without error in the future. Why? Because without that money from privatisation, neither will the Croatian budget survive, nor will the debt be paid back to the pensioners, and if it is not returned within 2 years then it is difficult to go to elections, etc., etc. Since privatisation, gentlemen, and that is the point, in the next 2 years, in 2005, more than 12 billion kunas are due in 2006. And without consensus in this House, that's what we need to discuss. What's to sell, how to sell, who's the best bidder? I think we're all in bad shape. That's the point. And everything else, these deadlines, etc., is nothing but politics. What are we going to do now with the extension of the deadline for the revision of the conversion? We're not gonna achieve anything. Now what can we expect from the state auditor? What do you expect from the State's Attorney's Office? What do you expect from our court that imposes 2 paroles and 2 fines? Everything that was privatized in '92, '93, '95, that's already out of date. Not only did it fall into obsolescence, but today these people who took part have become pillars of Croatian society. We just can't question it anymore. If you do, what are we gonna do? It'll stop production, business banks with new people won't work, business world with companies, under allegations in the investigation, will not do business. In one word, we'll create greater social damage than good. We will correct injustice with a new injustice, and there is nothing else to be judged. And therefore indeed, gentlemen, consider how to privatise new companies because, I said, 12 billion kuna should be incomed in 2 years. Don't let "Liburnia" happen to us. Croatia still has 30 to 50 billion kuna of property. Clearly, when I talk about it, I'm always against privatising monopolies because they not only have an economic dimension but they have one social dimension. And finally, what we also need to do is demystify the position of power in this society or state. It is not power in this House, power is not even with the president of the state even though he invited his financiers to the vango 15 or 20 days ago in the best way to demonstrate where power is, power is definitely in capital today, in the media of Croatian broadcasting. MI in the Parliament, the Parliament is consciously degraded so that it may be easier to rule this Croatia. The government's clear position is powerful because it has these 85 or 90 billion kunas but when you refuse 25 billion for pensions and 20 billion for salaries, so for health care, 20 billion remains that the government has autonomously 10 to 15 billion kuna plus privatisation processes. I'm stressing the privatisation processes. And once again I'm going to say power isn't in the Parliament, it's in the capital, it's in the media of which MPs, and especially not if we're degrading ourselves who's drunk or not drunk.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43343	My colleague, the relationship of power distribution between the Constitutional Factors is not the subject of this debate. This is a debate on amending the law on the period of extension of privatisation and stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43344	I'm saying that it's far smarter than what we're proposed to do, it would be far smarter instead of proposing something that we're not going to have to agree on, Mr. President and gentlemen of Parliament MPs, as far as privatisation goes, and making sure that it's fairly implemented, that we don't have to repeat Liburni because we're going to stop through such examples and what I would say is bare-maintenance of the state budget. That's why I really appeal not to be me to close this book, as Minister Vukelic said, but simply the book is closed, and we make sure that future injustices do not repeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43345	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43346	Thank you very much, Mr. President, my colleague Cain said that by extending this deadline, or by proposing a bill, we're not going to achieve anything. This is an incorrect allegation, as in the explanation of the proposal, it also says that precisely because of the scope of the job and the incomplete complete audit, it requires an extension of the time limit to allow for full adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43347	Thank you on behalf of the HSP Club, honourable representative Miroslav Rožić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43348	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This is already x times to discuss the different aspects of conversion and privatisation whatever it means, whether it's turning someone else into one or it's a privatisation that's happening right now, always the same story. Mr. Minister is in explanation, and even in response and in several appearances here very clearly and loudly said this bill is just an extension of the deadline. And what I'm asking Mr. Minister on behalf of the HSP Club is why Mr. Minister only extends the deadline. Why only the extension of the deadline, when so far the work of the audit found that 95.18% of the conversion was not in them any illegality. This is a key issue when we are discussing conversion and privatisation, in 95.18% of the cases, the state's revision of illegality in conversion and privatisation and instead of trying to sanction that fact by some amendment of the law, we are only discussing the extension of the deadline here. Of course, there is a question for every normal person in Croatia, which is the purpose of the revision of conversion and what is the purpose of the revision of conversion. The objective of the revision of the conversion into the law is to revise that one of the objectives is to establish illegality. The audit has established illegality, met its goal. What is the meaning of our political will to actually review the establishment of an illegality which is the meaning of the existence of a state audit in all countries in the world, is, in fact, that the consequence of their work is to sanction these illegalities. Unfortunately, we are not talking here about the goal or the meaning, but only the extension of the deadline. There have been a lot of talk about the crimes that were committed during the conversion and privatisation, and many experts have said there has been a statute of limitations for these crimes. Although we at the HSP Club hold that it is questionable whether this statute of limitations has occurred, whether the conversion and privatisation that took place during the war in Croatia could actually be considered war profiteering, and by that qualification could never be antiquated as well as a war crime. Let's just let it go so we don't argue whether there's been a statute of limitations or if there's no statute of limitations. I'm actually asking another question on behalf of the HSP club. If there is a statute of limitations, it is not likely that there is a statute of limitations for the illegal acquisition of property namely, if the wealth of the privilegeds, which the state's audit has found illegal, if we cannot prosecute them for it, or as our colleague Slaven Letica would say, can we and must take away what they illegally acquired. That's certainly what we can do, and we have to. But no, we're not dealing with it, we're not dealing with taking away what they illegally acquired, we're only dealing with extending the deadline for reviewing conversion and privatisation. You know, to translate from Croatian to Croatian for ordinary regiment. When someone steals a car and changes the numbers on that car it's a felony, but if we catch him in that theft only after he's out of date for the theft, for that crime of stealing a car, we'll still take his car when we catch him. But no, in conversion and privatisation, we don't do that. For what reason? So we have a feeling at the HSP Club that this bill shows one false concern and concern for proper implementation of conversion and privatisation and that it is also trying to secure an alibi for taking measures for the benefit of the economy. In our court, such a bill of law is absolutely unnecessary. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of this Act, it is stated that it is necessary to extend the period of validity of the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, given that the parliamentary debate could result in a possible need to revise some of the procedures implemented by the basis of the Law of Revision and Privatisation which could not be implemented since the last legislative amendment of 2004. That's what it says in the explanation. The purpose of the audit was, in fact, set out in Article 2. The State Audit Act and the meaning of the revision, conversion and privatisation are particularly highlighted in paragraph 4 of that article, so I will quote it. "The revision of conversion and privatisation is an examination of documents, decisions, business books, contracts and acts on the basis of which conversion and privatisation has been carried out, as well as other documents necessary to determine whether a breach of the provisions of the Law on Conversion, the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Social Capital or the Specific Law has occurred in the process of conversion and privatisation." That's the point of the audit. This Appendix referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall have some justification for the revision, conversion and privatisation of social enterprises which took place tens of years ago. But in the current conversion and privatisation procedures, it is pointless to revise the current privatisations. No state audit office in the world does that. He's not reviewing the current privatisations. Why? Because it can be suspected that the aim of the proposal is, in fact, to ensure that the current privatisations are carried out in accordance with the law and without irregularities, there is then a series of competent authorities and the possibility of legal instruments to do so. In this respect, I am actually drawing your attention to the jurisdiction and, for example, the Department of Economic Crime of the MUP, which should deal with current transformations and privatisations, the USKOK which should deal with the legality of current conversions and privatisations, the State's Attorney's Office which should deal with current conversions and privatisations, etc., etc. All these institutions are obliged to take actions without a specific audit report. Therefore, for example, for some of the recently played or current games, it seems completely pointless in the eyes of any expert or even more addressed citizen. Why? Because for potential participants who are now in conversion and privatisation are making some irregularities that means actually buying time. This means that those who have so far eskished criminal and criminal liability thanks to the very often famous Institute of Obsolescence that I have already mentioned if we send an audit to an entity, we are waiting for the report of that audit. After that, the competent authorities take action and we can be absolutely sure that they will not be sanctioned. Thus, the short deadlines become obsolete for two or a few years in combination with complex and unnecessary previous procedures are actually imposed as a salvation for those who make irregularities rather than for institutions that should actually sanction such a thing to function. If, therefore, there is any doubt that there is an irregularity in the current transformations and privatisations of the State Attorney's Office, the MUP and other bodies are obliged to act immediately and the State Audit Office is needlessly imposed on participation in actions which are not and should not be an integral part of any European Modern National Audit Office. We have recently even had a debate here on the law that has put state auditors into state officials, so under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as imposing obligations on them to carry out audits of conversion and privatisation, and this distances us from European and world audit flows. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to sanction any of these 95.18% of the irregularities identified so far in the audit reports, identified irregularities in previous conversion and privatisation procedures, then we need to change something else, and we need to bring some other amendment to the law on conversion and privatisation rather than just extending the deadline for revision, because that is why we are actually imposing a revision of a job that needs to be carried out entirely by other state bodies. Otherwise it's going to happen as well as everything that's happened to conversion and privatisation in the past tens and more years, which is that it's going to go into oblivion until this whole system starts. So, what does he finally do, I ask the question, the State Securities Commission, which actually keeps a record of the ownership of shares and other securities? Is this State Commission reading State Audit reports and is it acting on them at all? Or did she do it? We're actually having a discussion here about who stole what, and when, we're having a debate about whether we can sanction it or not, instead of the state finding an instrument that would actually help those who stole something and more of them can't be prosecuted for actually taking away what they stole, like in this example of the stolen car that I took out. Therefore, Mr. Minister, it is not necessary to close the book of conversion and privatisation but rather to shut down thieves in conversion and privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43349	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43350	Thank you. In fact, I don't think it's a statement from the esteemed representative that, according to the audit, 95% of the subjects were illegal actions and irregularities because we have here that the State Audit Office has submitted 71 applications and 107 reports with suspicion of the existence of criminal offences after the audit has been carried out. So if we add to this that 18 people have been charged after all and the courts have made only four convictions, two suspended sentences and two fines, then I don't think there's an allegation and a claim that there were more than 95% of the subjects involved in illegal activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43351	Thank you. Article 207(2) The Rules of Procedure say it is time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the LS Club, HSLS, DC's esteemed representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43352	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorable representatives of the government, honored gentlemen of the audit, colleagues and colleagues! We obviously have something in our mental code, part of agreeing to all kinds of theaters even if it was also theater absurds, and indeed obviously none of us have the courage to refer to that Putin's axiom lesson that he said in Russia that from one day on, he was drawing a line and that after that day we were actually going, to go with a different way of working and acting. We are otherwise known as fighters for a better past, and in this we love to be exhausted and indeed here if we listen carefully always to the debates then somewhere in the subtext and sometimes very often the explicit actually who is more in this privatization, and whose are the ones who have been bailing, whether they belong to this or that party and, in some ways, they actually satisfy this hunger of the public for certain scapegoats, which then once again politics once again finds in order to somehow create this one illusion that something is done. And really this reality of ours is pretty virtual and we'll probably, here I've found three four of these discussions over these last few years and we could almost say again as... Nothing new in the West, so neither with our review nor our privatisation, nothing dramatic after this, and these prolongations won't happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is... That's the most common explanation, the argument about this privatisation of ours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Usually it's said and most often that privatisation was, the works were consistent... the laws of the Republic of Croatia at the time, but that it was immoral. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to admit that it doesn't kind of go into my liberal head that something couldn't be both, why something couldn't be legal and moral. But that's exactly how I say it is trying to justify what is usually under malfeasance, which is being led by the criminalization of our conversion and precisely because we are who we are, then we have this pressure on those facts that something was legal but it wasn't moral, so then we try to go from time to time with these proposals of the Law on Auditing, Conversion and Privatisation, thinking it would solve something. I don't know. January 3rd, the election just won, many of us promised that right here at the first session, at the third session there in February 2000, the audit will be launched and then it will still be... Certainly, with a consistent session, they don't go quite as hard as they are, and then I say it's long gone, and then it's all over again, and it's only in time that we open that debate, and we're back where we are today September 28th, 2005, so we solemnly promise to do something by September 30th next year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We think that we're actually cheating on ourselves and that in some way we're trying to demonstrate one responsibility and a desire to actually solve the square of the circle and in advance we're aware that from that, solving that square of the circle not only is impossible but it's not going to happen. For the simple reason I'm afraid that when I talk about some expectations, then I say, we can count them very easily, they're what the people say and "the road to hell filled with good intentions", so all of these, all of those elements that privatisation was supposed to bring, then very, then very, then when you count them really, no one normal against them has absolutely nothing but for once wonder are solutions, or the results turned out to be the opposite. I have already spoken from this place several times, while we Croatians have taken privatisation as an opportunity to gain, so we expected that some 24 billion marks of the time were calculated to rotate in this social property that we will now make a nice profit, and then with those 24 billion when you include it in the economy, you will lead to this modernization, economic technology, open new markets, new jobs, new jobs, and suddenly we are surprised, and in fact none of that modernization, none of that technological innovation, any of the opening and adaptation of our own economy to market mechanisms, but you actually had something entirely different. While at the same time West Germany, which cannot be said to be an unreasonable nation and that they don't really understand what it's about, they're about 600 billion then, the German marks invested in the economy of East Germany just realizing that privatisation can't be won, but it's only a cost, so in order to privatise something at all, you have to put it, leave the possibility of making it necessary to restore it to be a significant competitor on that market. So here they are, the Germans, I say, approach it as a cost, and here we are, I say, unrealistically expecting that we're going to make a profit of $20 and more than billions of dollars. And, of course, when you go in with the wrong premises with completely wrong expectations and in my opinion, the most important economic political event after the very fact of Croatia is that then, then what happens to you is that it is now and this revision you realize that something should be punished, sanctioned, and then only then that there is the possibility of going into some new privatisation and in the meantime we are in no way following, to catch a rhythm with these economic processes and then you actually have a growing and greater lagging and then an economic collapse and this whole story of our debts. And now at all it's less important who it is and what period it's come into, I say again we're going back to this battle for a better past than those facts that are happening here that are real, that you can feel but we, I say, prefer this virtual reality right here, and here, here we are masochistically involved in something that we're in advance, I believe all of us here are aware that we can't say here when we just mention that the book would close then we become as nervous because normally it's not popular to say that the book is going to close because we ourselves don't know and we promised and we had to say and the political messages were such that this book can't be closed. But now that you're going, go and try to see who it was sanctioned then you're just coming up with that fact that other than a few of those scapegoats, nothing really happened with our privatisation, and I'm afraid it can't happen and that it would be the most dangerous thing right now to find a few... who will hang and who will in some way satisfy this particular thirst for this punishment, because when a crime is committed then follow, after a crime must follow the punishment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we think it's for all of us here, that we know it can't happen. And these are the more important processes that would in some way, which would have just made it possible to catch that someone's economic rhythm actually lagging behind and then I say this collapse is further and further and further. Foreign investment, foreign investment continues to be a growing legal uncertainty. There's only you, I'm saying there are real problems, so there's little of it, and I belonged to those who were in the '90s, and especially in that very important '99s, he was fully aware that privatisation and conversion was exactly the one... The problem that we as politicians and this public must face and proposed the same was the same I belonged to those naives thinking that something would happen, that something really real would happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm afraid this pathin is... something that, from which and here must be a consensus, not because... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're quoting an ex-workmate who said it quite peoplely, but I'm afraid, in fact, at least so far, nothing has been offered on this political economic market that would convince me that something will happen until September 30, 2006. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm saying, the more those effects that were planned were actually left behind, the more they were left behind because they were completely wrong, which went completely wrong. And now what's more, that substance that's left and which isn't small, which isn't small that she could actually be with someone, with the very fact that this privatisation now has to be controlled, has to be legally but also morally that there's really a chance that we are really all of these negative, macro-economic effects that are recorded to be able to bridge them in some way. In that sense, here's if in the name of the Club if you can say, I'm afraid that, that we're going to have again, we're going to be witnesses to fight the windmills, that we're actually fooling ourselves, and that these actually are nothing more than apaurine and an alibi policy, because I'm saying the public is horny because we're alone, we convinced it ourselves. Most of the people are kind of punished in our country, that's actually what it was, which is what the international conference in Dubrovnik said was that our privatisation was also a model but also the way the failure was solved. Well, you know I'm not talking about relations between these countries in transition. On one side of Croatia and the Czech Republic. How did we get started and how did we get out? Not only in, and how many citizens were involved in all this? These are all those indicators that are actually, who are, who are, who are painful, that we have to, that we really have to face and admit to ourselves that this, that it wasn't right. That this book really needs to be closed, with this bad concept and bad expectations, and that the only way to close it instead, this sanctioning that it is, which belongs to neither to us nor to the representatives but belongs to the judiciary after all. There are institutions in this, this country that need to work, and if we were to actually turn around right now, we would turn to that very thing to tell the new privatisation that should be going on in completely different, different conditions. And that what's still, that substance, and it seems to me at least to me by some indicators a few years ago that it wasn't even a little bit. That there's a lot more to privatize. Let's not make these mistakes that I say are made. Because everything else I say will be just a battle for a better past and, simply in that, in the assembly, we'll throw each other what someone left behind, let them do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43353	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43354	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me immediately say on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club that the problem of conversion and privatisation, and in particular its revisions and too serious a problem to play with it, is played in such a way as it is done with this bill. It is simply unacceptable to play with the expectations and feelings of citizens with this, as is done with this bill. I must tell you if this is a deliberate attempt to play the initiative of the President of the Republic of Stjepan Mesic to extend and, I stress and extend the deadline and to revise the conversion then no feelings and expectations of the people on the one hand must be played out. Or, secondly, if this proposal and this content are the result of ignorance, incompetence, clamperia if you want in the government, and at that level there must be no colleagues, then it is here that it is actually through this bill that a question of responsibility should be asked and perhaps to thank those who lead this portfolio. I'm going to give you a very sharp assessment on behalf of our club right now. It is obvious that there is no thesis spoken by some of the colleagues who said, "Nothing will be achieved, they have a feeling." No, colleagues. Dear colleagues and colleagues with an extension of this deadline are not seeking to achieve anything. Because by extending the deadline to September 30, 2006 that an audit can actually be carried out, and at whose request? Who can apply and within what time limit to launch the audit? It is forgotten that in the applicable Law in Article 21, as is well known, the application for, quote, reads: "The request to initiate the process of reviewing conversion and privatisation shall be submitted within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this Act." Dear colleagues and colleagues are fictitiously extended as a deadline for the revision, and at the same time you give no one the right by force of the law that has expired in fact to file a request for revision. Who are we playing with? Well, that's irresponsible and inconclusive. Or just those who wrote and prepared this proposal don't know what this is about? Another problem that we must make plain here. This title of the Law states: "A proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation with the Final Proposal". That's not true. That's not true. The law of a respected colleague does not change. The Regulation which is in force shall be amended. You have a regulation that is in force, which reads, "The Regulation amending the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation adopted on 29 December 2004" and you have a Regulation that needs to be reaffirmed which is now also in force. The deadline extended until September 1st 2005 and September 30th 2005 and the regulation, which is in force, not the law of respected colleagues and colleagues, is amended. They didn't even state it in the text of the law. So who does this Parliament and this people pay to do these jobs in government? And that shows that it's about fiction, deception, mirage. Prolonging the deadline doesn't mean anything. Because no one has the right to apply for a renewal of the revision of conversion and privatisation except under the applicable Privatisation Act, which otherwise the Fund can run on its own, but he has so far refused to do so. The law does not amend the Law but changes the two regulations that are in force because one regulation has changed the other regulation which is in force and the Law itself, and we need to confirm that regulation and at the same time it is still imputed to the SDP that it is against the extension of the deadline. No colleagues! We're not against the extension of the deadline for the revision. We are for reaching conclusions and not as it says in the reasoning of the law. Again, it's completely false again. Since 29 May 2002. But we are for the conclusions we have made in this House, as is known on 14 April 2005, in which it is required to be reached among other things in point 8. Conclusions and the new Law on Privatisation, which among other things... and the EZOP model by which workers' shares would be secured in the further privatisation of remaining social capital and state capital that is not privatised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, we ask a question and what does this Law really want? And why is this law trying, trying to impose as some great achievement behind which one great nothing stands? Fourth. It is totally unacceptable to talk about it, to call for conclusions since 2002, and to ignore the 2004 conclusions. Parliament and 2005 are in force. It is totally unacceptable to argue that among other things I quote: "In order to prevent disturbances in the Croatian economy caused by the failure to complete the revision of conversion and privatisation it was necessary to access urgently." So, respected colleagues and colleagues, point 1 of the conclusions of 14 April 2005, reads: "The report on the work on the implementation of the audit and, conversion and privatisation for the period 2003-2004 and the report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out. So what's this? So what's this? This government is attacking the audit that it didn't finish the job, and the Parliament found that the government, that the audit had completed the job based on its reports. The Council has reached conclusions on what the Government should continue to do, and the government instead of working on those conclusions brings us back three years. Well, respected colleagues and colleagues, I really don't know what's behind this? No, I don't care if it's about ignorance, recklessness, slapping if you want me to simplify the matter to the end so that everyone understands me or is trying to play the President of the Republic's initiative and the expectations of the citizens and especially the workers. I don't care what it's based on. But the people behind it can no longer stand actually and cannot trust the serious people at this level to do so. For for God's sake take only the facts and set them straight. Just set it up. From this text they write and take the applicable law and regulations that are in force and you will see. I must especially point out that what our expectations are that after the report submitted by the Fund, after the report submitted by the National Bank. After a report submitted by the State Attorney's Office on the situation in conversion and privatisation after we have established and accepted the State Audit Reports. Among other things, I will quote the whole point 8, we have made a commitment: After the deadlines set out in the previous points, the Croatian Parliament will consider all reports delivered and, on the basis of the debate, establish the necessary measures within 90 days to eliminate: irregularities, illegalities and possible damages caused by the Republic of Croatia for conversion and privatisation, including the creation of a new Privatisation Act, which among other things should define the EZOP model and so on. Sincere colleagues and colleagues instead of doing it, instead of being prepared by the government for us, the government has prepared a proposal behind which nothing is hidden. And not to mention the whole series of conclusions that we have so far obliged the Government to report, on the basis of the separate parts of the State Audit report, on certain actions and, of course, the other state bodies on which they have, in part, reported what they have found and acted. Of course, you can go lapidarily, so you know, crimes are so many, they're not illegal. But that's clearly ignorance. People don't know about the illegality of the crime, that the crime is one of the most abundant and most serious forms of violation of lawlessness as expressions of illegality. And for this reason, I ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, to urge the Government, on the basis of this Act, to urgently prepare a proposal for a new Privatisation Act, in which case, if individual cases arise, regardless of whether there is a capital in state property or any other form of ownership, that an audit may be opened provided that we give someone the opportunity to submit such a request so that they can be audited by workers, I do not know the trade union, employers if you will, damaged shareholders, etc. etc. That now I don't... Secondly, let's finally go into working stock, because it's finally time to admit that workers need to make something come true from what they and their generations before them have created in creating social capital. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And thirdly, to determine what is in the social capital of the special interest of the Republic of Croatia as a national so-called state which cannot be privatised under the usual Privatisation Act, where, in any case, a special Privatisation Act such as the INA, such as the Croatian Forests, such as the Croatian Roads, Croatian Railways, Croatia Insurance, Croatia Bank and the Banking System, etc. etc. Do we have that courage or not? This is how we spin in an impossible situation. We are getting a proposal for a law amending the Law on Audit and Conversion and Privatisation, which amends two regulations that are in force, not the law and that with legal authority. We get a law that speaks of extending the deadline for the revision, and at the same time, the deadline for the law to be passed, so no one can apply for an audit anymore. So it won't be any of that in advance. But those who follow and must be in charge of law enforcement by the constitution is the Government and its resolution ministers, then know, then it is not an accident, then it is an act, then it is a delusion and a promise and expectations of our citizens and we from the SDP's Club of Representatives cannot agree to that fact. We are not opposed to extending the deadline, but then amending the law and in that part to allow for a new deadline for the submission of audit applications in cases where there are reasons for economic, economic, moral, and in particular legal bases. In such a situation, we can discuss a serious proposal. For us, this is an entirely inconclusive proposal so that serious people can decide on it so that they can declare themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43355	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43356	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect quote of counterpart Arlovic when he said that the SDP for the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation and the introduction of order. My colleague Arlovic, if that were true, then you would honor the conclusion of the 2002 Croatian Parliament when you were obliged to make a new Law on Conversion and Privatisation and that the deception is what you are now saying. You have imputed to us that deception is this law, then the best proof is that we have a final proposal here now. So, go ahead and improve it, make suggestions, let's take part! This isn't something and it's over. So let's do our best. And you should have fulfilled your obligations, then you'd have the right to speak like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43357	Minister Branko Vukelić, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43358	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will briefly and clearly repeat once again the intention of proposing amendments to this Law on the revision of conversion and privatisation. It is intended, therefore, to extend that period for a year, so that additional or repeated audits and new audits can be carried out in those years. If there is legal, no technical, legal ambiguity please suggest amendments. But what I'm saying is, it's not about any kind of rocking delusion, and it's not really going to be a big deal. All the regulations that we have adopted so far in terms of the prolonging of deadlines have also been taken into account, therefore, and are mentioned in the explanation. So here it was going to change the law while respecting that there was also a regulation that extended this deadline in a month. So, September of this year as well as the previous regulation. However, if there is, then, on the legal side of the ambiguity, then please suggest an amendment. But here I want to make it clear that there is no intention of prolonging, nothing to do, but the intention of prolonging and giving yourself time to do everything we want to be clear and to be clear to the citizens when it comes to reviewing conversion and privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43359	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43360	The minister says he's not going to blow something up, blur it out if you have any objections to improve, give me the amendments. Minister, you cannot be given an amendment. The amendments can't be fixed legally...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43361	It's not a correction. Those are suggestions. Comrade Stazic, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote. You have certain suggestions and comments. What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43362	It is incorrect for the minister to say that it is not the government's intention to blur. That's completely incorrect. The intention of the Government is to blur because it is impossible for amendments to fix this text because it is simply impossible for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43363	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. The second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43364	The same remark, Mr. Minister. Amendments cannot be made to our Rules of Procedure for articles of law which are not subject to amendments to this law. So you're obviously clouding things, because we're going to give something, and then our amendments are going to be rejected and they're not going to be discussed at all. Only you as a government can make such amendments to your own law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43365	And third, honourable deputy president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43366	Mr. President, that's exactly it. Mr. Minister said to try to fix the law with amendments. I would like to remind you that it is impossible, because the law complements Article 21(2), the one which speaks of the submission of applications and the deadline for submission of applications is not touched at all and we cannot put an amendment to what is not changed and does not supplement in the proposed law. Just supplement item two, and in such a situation we only appeal if you want to avoid a situation that does not turn out to be a delusion, then you and your amendment should cover the whole of Article 21 and, among other things, extend the deadline and apply for an audit and conversion in cases where there are reasonable reasons for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43367	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43368	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, I am surprised here by my colleagues and by the SDP who are here to attack you that the amendment cannot react to the amendments to the law that the motionor did not foresee. Because you're not an expert on laws. You're an expert on contracts, and one of those is probably already in the drawer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43369	Comrade Antičević, please, I warn you. Please, now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43370	I don't know what the anxiety is and what... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43371	There's no anxiety, but there's, uh, no nervousness, colleague Anticevic. I know what you wanted. It's very obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43372	Well, we all understand what we're talking about here. But here it looks like someone wants to cloud the public what's going on and what's the point of this law. And what is the purpose of this law? The government proposes a one-year change, that the revision, that the state's revision should be extended to the deadline of one year. The government also wanted ten years of prolonging it, but it wanted to stop all other laws to process what the state's audit had found. Why do you stop the deadlines from getting out of date? Why do you stop everything that the government has gone through based on the conclusion of the Parliament that we will later discuss? There you can see what your real intentions are, and you wouldn't even be talking about this because these are otherwise hateful topics for this second HDZ rule since it allowed all of this to happen. Of course, you should be honest here, you said well, we were four years old and we did a good job, and that's why we lost the election, because some of us promised to sanction everything. However, as an executive authority, we were engaged in the formation and administration of a rule of law which the then prime minister did not give orders to the judicial authority, as the prime minister now does. Maybe that's why we're being punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43373	What are the orders given by the Prime Minister to the judicial authority?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43374	On several occasions, the Prime Minister gave the urbi et orbi a public order. He says like this, I gave a warrant to the police, I gave a warrant to the state's attorney's office, in a few cases. There's a lot of them, so I don't want to spend those 10 minutes on a list of these, and I can tell you later, because I'm sure I'll get in touch with this other one for another debate, so if you're interested, then I'll also quote you where he asked for specific solutions. That's what he said in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43375	He didn't publicly say that, and that's all you heard was that he gave the order to the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43376	No, well, let it go now, you won't be having sex with me now. So how did this Law come into being? After the government rested permanently in the summer of that unhappiness, then the phone was cut off in order to make a billion kunas intolerably easy to hold. ... Thank you, colleague, for the correction, one billion and two hundred. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, what happened? People simply then broke the film in another sad and sad privatisation story. How is last year's agreement between the Croatian Privatisation and Holding Fund and the manipulation of the nominal and market price of shares of the Opatija firm Liburni severely damaged the state budget and how has Ostojić's letter been found? But this is from the government, by means of speakers, because they seem to bring this kind of news that the people don't believe in at all, that the government hasn't received a notice at all. And then what does the government do? Darka Stojića, because she has to find one... Because the people got excited, they had to sacrifice someone, and then they fired Darko Ostojić and the head of the Privatisation Fund is coming who, look who, the person who was sitting on the board of directors of companies for whom this state audit, Mr. Minister, who you are now extending for a year, found a whole series of irregularities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's a qualified person who now sits, standing at the head of a privatisation fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43377	My colleague, can I give you some advice? That's where we'll have the topic behind this point, where we'll have the topic and the coupon privatisations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43378	No, no, this is the subject of motives that we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43379	And I mean, we're going to have a topic of coupon privatisation, coming up after this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43380	And that's why Mr. Secretary here tells us the stories of the unspeakable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43381	What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43382	During the '90s, watch out for me here we're talking about exactly what it's like, to extend the deadline from all the things the revision has already given its opinion and findings. The money he crawled from the state portfolio through strange roads into the hands of the chosen. Now, now...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43383	The money's moving.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43384	... instead of extending the deadline by parallel laws, it was also an obligation from this Parliament, of course when you were making an opposition, but you were also up for it, which you do based on it. So the government was obliged to propose amendments to the laws needed to sanction committed crime in conversion and privatisation. Indeed, there are other speakers here, saying on behalf of the clubs and colleagues Tomcic and counterpart Arlovic, wondering why they are burdening the State Audit if there is no political will at all, they do not want to, but this time not because of incompetence, but it is precisely resisting all that remaining ability to disable the lifeline of the State Audit. A whole series of retrials fail to end, i.e. they fail to establish one expected justice, nor in that notorious example of the Kutla and other privatisation malversions that have, therefore, been gathering the attention of all our political but not only political publics for more than a decade. One little more creative interpretation of the newly created situations of the existing law did not come across the understanding of higher findings, so now, here, we also had situations to ask the Parliament for interpretation of how the existing laws were applied. Exactly in order to establish some kind of justice. However, we must admit that we do not have the precise and modern incrimination as we wished, as it was ultimately mandatory to do by the government. So, what does the government do? When this mess broke around Liberia, the government wants to show that it is not to cover up and cloud the situation, you were the first to say it, without anyone telling you Mr. Minister, to cover it up and to blur it out, so it's also symptomatic, and at the same time, you see, it's not funny, after the Constitutional Court has abolished the Penal Code novel where we've just made it possible. Three-timed deadlines, so it wouldn't be said here that it's outdated and what hasn't become obsolete at all, but it'll get old very soon if you behave like this, extend the deadlines of the aged state audit, and make it impossible for the judiciary to get there and do it all. Well, then why don't you run on that novel or something? But you say no, and then there's all the masks. We still, therefore, do not have the necessary incrimination for all, this whole series of irregularities that need to be found well-deserved justice before the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43385	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43386	I thank Mr. President and apologize for constantly correcting one of those same guilty allegations, because I have to. So, colleague Antičević said that this government is a cloudy public, us here, etc. Not colleagues, that's incorrect. That's completely incorrect. This government hereby enforces the obligation of your government. Better late than never. I remind you, on 29 May 2002, you were obliged as Government to pass a new law from this House, and in that Government you were a minister. You said you probably didn't carry out your commitment, because if you did, you wouldn't be doing this to me right now. You're the one who said that this government is going to take a break from unhappiness. No government, no one can rest from work then, but you probably didn't work and you didn't do it. And on the other hand, it's strange that the same lineup, the same people want to continue their own troubles and cloud the public and go back to the small door and rule again, so let's do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43387	The second correction, the esteemed representative, Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43388	Thank you, Mr. President. I must respond to Mrs Anticevic's claim, which said in her statement that her government was engaged in the birth of this state from 2000 to 2004 and in the birth of the rule of law. That's Mrs. Anticevic absolutely incorrect. Because when we gave birth to this country from the '90s and so forth, many of you were against it, but the fact that in 2000 you came to power in a state that was formed, arranged, but you were simply not up to it to behave. And these aren't unspeakable stories, and these aren't Andersen's stories, these are facts. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43389	And the third correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43390	Thank you, Mr. President. So, a similar correction. We couldn't do privatisation because here we were dealing with the birth of a legal child. You could only celebrate the birthdays of that legal child, and the inherited child in four years of your reign almost ended up in an educational and correctional institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43391	And you see, when you colleagues, you've gotten into a gynecology, gynecology, legal order, and the state, that's how it is. ... Do you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Whose? ... Everyone's. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's go, what regulation of the Rules of Procedure has been violated?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43392	The violation of Article 209 is about abuse, because here your party colleagues, Mr. President, abuse the institution of correcting an incorrect assumption and speak out of turn, and you do not warn them of this breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'm talking about. ... Well, I wouldn't say it encourages them, but apparently he can't handle them. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43393	It's not about any injury to my colleague Anticevic's Rules of Procedure. You have made certain claims which were incorrect, factual allegations disproved by the institution of correcting the incorrect allegations, other MPs. It always happens when you go with births and when you go with births and when you go with grades such that someone is the next of kin of the rule of law and that he was creating a legal state, and that others deny it, then you get the situation you get. So let's just leave the maternity leave. Another replica, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43394	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It's always the situation when it comes to big things, then it all comes down to barren replicas. Therefore, we from the Croatian Party right have offered a way out of this situation, so I ask you to focus on that part in the future, and the output is next, means to the amendments that in all cases where the competent authority for the review has established an illegal way of implementing conversion and privatisation, that the Government commits itself to starting the procedure of declaring legally invalid any such individual case. This is what the Croatian public expects, Croatia's citizens expect. So we have a way out, we offer you a solution and let's dissipate that fog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43395	Col. Kovacevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, the amendments can be submitted very precisely and clearly only to the provisions that are being amended. Just on, we can't paralyze,... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what we'll decide when there's a vote on the amendments. There's only one provision of the Rules of Procedure that you don't forget. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43396	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The history of conversion and privatisation is well known. In 1979, it began under the old Markovic law, which stimulated labour stockholdership, allowing workers' salaries to be converted into shares. According to this law, the interest of the law was protected. Those who created meant value throughout their working lives could become shareholders, could become co-owners of the companies that created them. It was a good and fair law, and if it hadn't changed, we wouldn't be having this debate today, and Croatia wouldn't have been robbed. However, such a good and fair law bothered the political elite of that time, that the political elite gathered in HDZ did not want to agree to working stock. The idea of 100 wealthy families was born, actually, about concentration and control of capital. It did not matter so much which 100 families and which names were, but it was important for that capital to enter into a pyramidal structure and to be controlled from one place, so then a good and fair law that was valid until then and which was in the interest of the workers was amended in 92. It was passed so the law followed by a ruthless robbery. '94. The State Audit was established, it means, only in 94 years. So she couldn't until she was established logically, or audited that privatisation and conversion. But no special law was passed that would allow it, and it was already known that the robbery was going on. The shift of government was to be welcomed, it was due in 2001 to adopt a special Law on Auditing, Conversion and Privatisation and to give these transactions jurisdiction to the State Audit. What were the expectations of the public from that audit? I'll talk about it under the next agenda. But the audit, within her jurisdiction and best she could do her job. She revised a thousand 556 transformed companies for which she received applications, audit requests. She filed several reports with this House and filed a final report. And from that conclusion, the report from all the reports that preceded it was all able to read what we knew before, the final general assessment of privatisations and conversions with the amended law was a well-organized, well-organized and perfectly conducted robbery designed in one center, controlled from that one center and to the benefit of the people set out in that political centre. Now it's offered, what? Arms up. With what arguments? Be careful if the State Audit said we've made a thousand 556 audits, but we haven't made 250 yet, we need another deadline, I'd understand that the government is extending the deadline. People still have work to do, and they need an extension. But no, no, the review did its part, said she did it, filed a final report, so why extend the deadline. If the government had said, the aim of the Law is to enable the revision of the privatisations that are ongoing or that are yet to come. Okay. It's not very logical because it's the revision that works under the State Audit Act when it works, when it audits the fund. When he audits the fund every year. So they do it like this. And they're doing it under the regular law, so they don't need an extraordinary law that should still be extended by now, but the government didn't even say it. The government simply didn't say anything, and the minister, explaining it, said nothing again. What does the government offer? What does the government offer? The minister says the government won't close the book. Now, that's clearer. That's clearer already. Of course the government won't close the book. The revision needs to be extended, and even when it's already finished, when it's all over, it still needs to be extended. Why? So in order not to face the final results of that revision and not to have to answer, the Government would not have to answer the question and what to do next. And what happens next after these findings? And this is how the government can calmly say, and listen to the people dear, and what you expect from us now. We have to wait for the audit to finish its work. So we'll extend their deadline until they finish the work they've done. So, when we sum up that it is completely unnecessary, pointless, without reason extending the deadline without giving the right to those authorities to continue to apply for review, when it is summed up that the revision has done, when it is added that the revision can be controlled by the existing, valid, its regular law and that house of privatisation, then the ultimate result of why the Government is offering this. It offers no, Mr. Bagaric, to make something "movable" because in Croatian it is "moved", you know. The government is offering fog. The government produces fog, offers fog, it's an alibi law, it's an illusion that the revision will bring justice in its sequel. This won't bring satisfaction to anyone. At least those who were robbed in that privatisation. You know, if you really want to control these current privatisations, and control the upcoming privatisation of INA 15%, so try, trying to privatise Liburnia can be changed, it can be changed if it's necessary to amend the regular State Audit Act and say there's no privatisation until the audit says "amen" until it's signed. We can, but then we'll do it. This is pure fog. And you know, Minister Vukelic, you can't buy a clean privatisation conscience with such cheap law as you can buy a councilman in Karlovac for 20 thousand kunas a month. And the buyers of companies that did it against the law, and the buyers of councilmen who do it are in prison.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43397	Comrade Stazic, don't enter into this final, some of the grades they cause, which are dubious. Which are dubious. Go back to some stores. There's a lot to talk about. We've talked a lot in this House about these various shops. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43398	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Stazic, who said: "Markovic's Law in 98 was a good law and it was made, I conveyed meaning, so that workers' stockholdership would develop and those who had blood and sweated would acquire these companies to become their owners." On the contrary. Markovic and his elite knew they were worthless companies and that working stock did not bring new capital. Well, Mr. Track, your rabbit lies in another bush. Mr. Markovic passed the law for another reason. So to keep the communist directors at the helm of these companies, and unfortunately, he did most of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43399	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43400	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Stazic said that the political elite of HDZ gave birth to the idea of 100 wealthy families. Now it is only reduced from 200 to 100, and I would say, and correct that assumption that in June 2000, the Croatian Parliament unanimously reached a conclusion and tasked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to publish within 60 days by international standards 200 of the richest families in the Republic of Croatia, as you then claimed. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia said on August 31st 2000 that it cannot do so because of the ambiguity, uncertainty and different interpretations and does not know what it is and how it can give an answer in this regard. As for the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament and 200 or your now 100 richest families. And it's also incorrect as you say it is now about reviewing nothing, or fog. The government has proposed a prolongation of the date, and the Croatian Democratic Community and the Croatian government care to clarify the issue. Because there were irregularities in privatisation, the Croatian government wants to review privatisation and conversion and the interest of the Croatian Democratic Community is that, be sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43401	Thank you. And the third correction, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43402	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Stazic's, speaking of the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, claimed that it was de facto a criminal law that was criminal in itself and that all of this was conducted from a single centre. These are difficult, not only are they not true but they are terrible qualifications, and when it comes to the Law itself I will remind him that even the former Government of the current Law, the existing Law has not changed. During your government, can we also talk about power centers that have conducted privatisation in your time? I personally believe that the law itself is neutral, that it is quite correct and unfortunately, that there was not so much illegality if we were to talk about them. And I would say that the entire Croatian public in some way we in the Assembly are polluting and it is a great responsibility for us here in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43403	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43404	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Stazic called it wrong. So it's not true, fellow Trainer, that I misused the Croatian verb in connection with the fogging, dimming, etc., but quoted your colleague. That's number one. And number two, thank you for the Croatian language lesson. You're not at all...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43405	counterpart Antunovic, don't throw away the representative "don't lie". Today, we discussed the culture of dialogue in this extended presidency. The heated debates, the controversy of the controversy, the arguments, not the evictions and insults. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43406	However, just to finish, however, I would still tell you the way you said what you said, I got the impression that you were not hurting my language but my presence here. But that's your problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43407	And the esteemed representative Lucia Chikesh, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43408	We've all caught up with fog and blurry, and once again I say that this government doesn't cast the fog as you say, because its level doesn't allow it to underestimate the others who listen to it. And, sir, if someone always blurs out, so do you with that fact first 200, then 100 rich families. You pulled out of context, the late President Tudjman thus wanted to save with 100, with 200 families of Croatia not to go into other people's hands and did it precisely because of those who are not nationalally aware and kept repeating Croatia for nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43409	Replica's esteemed representative, Nikola Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43410	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have answered the line even though I am reluctant to comment on some statements about the importance of working stock, so let's say that there are no 3, 4 and 5 opinions in this assembly or in this country. Mr. Markovic's working stockholdership, to which it was not achieved, was neither achieved in the preconditions nor in 2000 was the subject of discussion and recently when the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski County discussed Liburnia Riviera hotels and the replica board I decided to raise when Mr. Stazic cited examples of Liburnija among other things. In this debate, Mr. Stazic, from your party's ranks, publicly raised doubts and raised the thesis that working stockholdering is as a model something that has passed and that can no longer be trusted in the future. Given what we are ahead of, in terms of at least completing the transformation and privatisation, we make fair and transparent and protect those employees who are in unprivatised blocks, it would be good to clarify whether working stock is something we rely on in the future or not, and not in 15 days to hear from the same source of conflicting topic, I am, of course, a supporter of stockholdership in general, not only of workers but of all employees but we should be precise there and we should not just be serving in this country for whatever reason the ear of whichever ear never welcomes him in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43411	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43412	The thesis of fellow Ivanishu was not contradictory, the working stock was very meaningful, when the conversion and privatisation began, when the overall potential that these workers had created for 50 years, when they had to decide who they were going to go to, Kutli, Mutli and similar to or going to them. Whether it goes to 100 or 200 such wealthy families anyway, as we hear here at the recognition of a colleague of the will and by President Tudjman's decision or by all the workers. No, all it had to do was give those national awareness that those who knowingly put it in their pockets were so much of their national consciousness. At that time, a colleague Ivanis could decide on working stock, today to sell to workers the fog about getting through working stock some value today when all is robbed represents cheating on these workers, and therefore the SDP may seem contradictory to you. We always say the same in the protection of those workers who created it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43413	Minister Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43414	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, a few things. I would once again return to the topic which is the subject of this item of the agenda, hence amending the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation and just reminding the esteemed parliamentary deputies and MPs, in 2002 the same text of the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatization with the prolongation of only this period that was then in 2003, on 2005 with the same formulations as we are proposing with 2005. Nine months, 2006. So if it's something fog now, it wasn't before or vice versa, I don't know, but I leave climate and fog issues for other topics. The next thing I want to say clearly, it is not that prolonging the duration of the privatisation review law affects the sanctioning of illegal actions. This is what the agenda points during the 2002 debates at the Parliament are finally talking about, when Parliament, here is the signing of Croatian Parliament President Zlatko Tomcic's commitment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2002, so that within 60 days he proposes to amend and supplement new laws in order to sanction crime committed in conversion and privatisation. We also have to say today or when the next points of the debate will be, there will be a debate on the reports of the State Audit Office, on the reports of the State's Attorney's Office of Procedures, etc. Therefore, the prolonging of the deadlines, I would like to make that clear, does not mean that it cannot affect the sanctioning of illegal actions. For which there are institutions and competent services to do so. So, this prolongation of the deadline is not in any desire to blur anything out, but that this process is completed in quality until the end and that indeed the revision of conversion and privatisation is finally and on the initiative is mentioned today and here, and the president of the state of Mr Mesic, who has also proposed this and the Croatian government has proposed a prolongation of a year and I don't think that there really should be any controversy in this, and in those actions that have been done, I think that these are the subject of the next points of the agenda relating to conversion and privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43415	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by DRagica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43416	It is incorrect that this is an identical amendment to the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. On 8 May, the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation was adopted when the deadline for the review was set in early 2003. It was seen that long preparatory actions were needed to begin the revision at all but that there were certain problems in order to collect documentation and have access to documentation, so then on November 22, 2003, there was an amendment to the law where the new Article 15a was added. where sanctions are prescribed for those who interfere with the audit work on the revision of conversion and privatisation and since it has not been carried out by the end of that work, an extended time limit has been extended to the beginning of 2005. Today, this change does not mean that we received a review report in the spring, a final audit report that she did at the end of 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43417	Second correction by the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43418	It is incorrect that Mr. Minister said not to prevent the sanctioning of everything the State Audit found, so he also mentions the conclusions he signed while he was President of the Parliament Mr. Zlatko Tomcic. That is exactly what has been done, however, as is known by the Constitutional Court, we, as the SDP, have proposed identical changes and the Government, I quote, says, "We are opposed to the SDP proposal" and this lists among other reasons "because there is no need to sharpen criminal repression", and here what we are now talking about has been made possible. Perhaps you, Mr. Minister, are not familiar with this. And the government gave another indication of the report originally. Its initial report was the government's opinion on the State Audit Report: "The government took note."
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43419	One, please, both the Ministers and the MPs. Leave the names of the President of the Parliament. President-in-Office of the Parliament was Mr. Tomcic earlier, it was now I, by the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Law, sign the decisions of the Parliament, the laws and others. So don't put us in that context. And a third, respected representative, Željko Pecek, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43420	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect claim by Mr. Minister that the extension of the work of the audit will not affect the effects we want from the revision. This is where we deal with folk tales, but I'd try to sort them out in some order. It's absolutely certain that for the privatisation, for all the citizens, the grandmother with the cakes, the man who put up the pit, went through it. We can hang that story about reviewing and privatizing the cat by the tail and the participants who were in that story, who should have been punished, obviously we can put salt under the tail. It is simple when we set these sentences obviously and intend to postpone things by extending the privatisation period or reviewing the privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43421	Someone's got to be lyrical in the mood to make a nice cocktail out of lifting and dropping fog, from maternity, from grandmothers with cookies and everything. As we discuss this, our reputation will also be in the Croatian public. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43422	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the other present colleagues and colleagues! In fact, it should not be opposed to amending the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation as proposed by the Government, but it should indeed be asked what will be the effects of such a minimal amendment to this law. Already, counterpart Arlovic has analysed to a sufficient extent what this amendment of the law actually means, and I would say that the objectives set out in the reasoning of this law, which are intended to be achieved by this amendment and what the Prime Minister said in the opening statement, seem to me that they will not be achieved at all. In fact, it is said that the objective of the need for further revision is because after the debate, I will literally read it, which could say that the parliamentary debate could result in the need to revise some of the procedures implemented under the law. I just remind myself that the debate on the final State Audit Report on the revision of conversion and privatisation was carried out, that certain conclusions were made and that I no longer think there is anything to do about it, given that Parliament discussed it and reached certain conclusions. Those conclusions should actually be followed. It is interesting to say that after the final audit report was delivered, the government suggested that we take this report into account and now it is said that there are certain audit problems, which have been found by the audit, a certain number of irregularities, etc. and that this should be resolved by extending the period of the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. And now let's say something, let's actually remember what that law looks like. The law adopted on 8 May 2001 states what a revision of conversion and privatisation is in its Article 2. Article 3 speaks of where the revision of conversion and privatisation will be carried out and seven points are listed where the audit will be carried out under this law. Where the audit is to be carried out and how, when requested by the authorising officer defined in Article 11, Article 5 also states where the audit is to be carried out. And it is also said in Article 6 where the audit will necessarily be carried out whether or not someone will request an audit. And where do we now have a change? We only have the amendment in Article 21 which states what time-limit for implementation, for the final implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation, and I say we already had the debate almost half a year ago where the State Review found in its final report, that is to say I will quote it, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation, the State Office has, within sixty days of the entry into force of that Law and that is when the authorising officers were able to submit applications defined in Article 21 which the Government does not propose to amend, so within that legal period from 24 May to 23 July, received the requests of the authorising officer for the initiation of the review procedure and that thousand 357 requests relating to 927 companies. And the State Audit Office has carried out a review in all these cases and in cases prescribed by law already under articles that I have already quoted. It's actually interesting what happened from the spring of this year until today when the government said it was receiving a final State Audit Report to note that several clubs, including the SDP Club, had proposed certain new conclusions that the government should have made. It took three months for the government to see these conclusions and only after three months in parliament to discuss the proposed conclusions and vote again. And now, instead of following the conclusions adopted in Parliament after the final State Audit Report, we have this amendment to the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation which actually makes no sense unless there are amendments to some of the other articles of this law. What should concern both us and the government who is proposing certain legislation to parliament is what the State's Attorney's Office wrote us, so I'll quote that. He says, "Among other large percentage of the acquittals, different views on interpretation of the rules between the State's attorney's office on the one hand and the court on the other hand are also conditioned." We may not have an impact on that, but on what the next paragraph says, which is the state's attorney's office, we really need to imagine how, what the law-making procedure is, and how we're easily missing certain legal proposals. The State's Attorney's Office's report states: the problem is in the non-compliance and inconclusion of regulations with emerging social economic relations because some did not even contain criminal sanctions. The State Audit Office also writes about this, says many irregularities that have been identified are not subject to sanctions at all. Therefore, such a situation in the legislation has also caused different views and interpretations of the rules where the state's attorney's office compared to the courts came closer to life and more realistic in this interpretation, applying the target interpretation, and we received confirmation of our position from the Croatian Parliament when the authentic interpretation of the Penal Code was requested. So, we should be more concerned about this, we should ask that the Government put as soon as possible proposals or amendments and additions of those laws to which the state's attorney's office tells us, and not such a formal amendment of the law that had a certain period of time and on the basis of which the State's Office of Audit and carried out its task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43423	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43424	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm actually a little disturbed by a form of fatalism within which Ljubo Cesic-Rojs, the general and your former colleague appear as some kind of classic Marxism that put the thesis on who stole that he definitely stole. Even liberal, my colleague Zlatko Kramarič suggested that we apply the Putin procedure, or a lesson on how to draw the line and say let's start a new life tomorrow. It's not like that. I think this High House has the least right to agree to such a type of amoral defetism, a little soul, because historical examples show that these processes are still correct. The Australian Aboriginals got land after 200 years and a few years. American Indians got their land after 200 and a few years. Those whose communist ranks took property through the confination and nationalisation processes 70 years ago or 60 years ago also came for their own. In that sense, I think that this law, as the minister said, does not solve all the problems that need to be solved by other laws and do not touch other services. I think that in this High House and in the Croatian public, there are many surface stereotypes that are not good for what we should actually think and talk about. One of these stereotypes is that the state review is made up of good ladies and good guys and that they're practically unmistakable in some way and they're doing one mission without any faults or grudges. On the other hand, the Privatisation Fund is an empire of evil, fraud, embezzlement, etc. Since I know a lot of people in both institutions, especially in the Fund, there is even a vice president of the Fund who is a beautiful Italian cancon singer, I know that these are institutions that do their job responsible, to work with very few mistakes and grudges. If you look at the Fund's showing in relation to the State Auditions, you will see that the number of irregularities is still significantly below those levels that have been speculated here today. As far as the law itself is concerned, I think the minister would do well, do a good deed if he adopted one type of compromise both Mr Tomcic and Mato Arlović spoke of and others... Deputies to clear off that deadline shall not be extended for a year but, let's say, three years to follow that pace in 2002/2005, 2005/2008. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, to adopt it as a government amendment to the proposal by Mate Arlovic because it was absolutely founded. To comply with the extension of these deadlines to that long term. I am personally more concerned about a process that this House of the High has agreed to. And that's a process that I'd kind of express like this. We agreed to politicise crime and criminalise politics. Affairs that should be dealt with by the investigative authorities, the state's attorneys and the USKOK have begun to deal with investigative commissions in this High Assembly. And in the case of Lance and some other elements of other investigative committees. So when it comes to some... Criminal acts should be dealt with by the rule of law, not this House. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why it happens that one former minister and one of our colleagues who should have been in the dungeon long ago is today the main candidate for the future prime minister. It is not in a civilized European country... process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that we're talking a little bit about how to look back and forth. I'll warn you. It's a pretty good job for us, too. I'll say, at a time when somehow surveillance of the privatisation process was a colleague of Andrija Hebrang's. The privatisation decision-making algorithm was not ideal but was very close to what today in the west is called socially responsible entrepreneurship, or socially responsible corporations. The advantage in competitions was given to companies or competitors who maintained employment or increased it, promised development, new markets, social security, environmental awareness, etc. The last two cases are liburnia and telem which, unfortunately, have led to politicisation and in some way to give legitimacy to some kind of balvan revolution and to bring down a publically legally executed competition. There is also a contest ahead of us that I want to warn the Croatian public and this House of Commons. It is a tender that has already been concluded for the discussion of the hotel company Kolocep, which is very attractive. I went to the island this summer, did a good research on what was going on, and I saw that the main attraction of a Villa Rose is very likely the wives of some tycoons are particularly interested. What is as worrying to us as this High House that we have already given to the public, we have received before actually arbiting about the measure of things one recommendation by the mayor of Dubrovnik that gives public support to one of the 14 competitors, it is absolutely unacceptable in every respect. We had a similar promise by, I won't mention someone in the government referred to so-called. Local entrepreneurs who did not even participate in the competition. And when it's already going so far and I'm closing it up, I personally support those competitors who are competing without any profit interest under the knowledge of the island. I'll talk about it in public these days. To know if it's going into a political battle, if you're not proud of the criteria to know who's on whose side and that's why it's later on. Therefore, if we continue to try to attempt both state audit and government and the fund to act preventively and it would be as good as GONG exists and some kind of GONG-P means that a system or a parliamentary or civil oversight of the decision-making process in privatisations that would prevent, in a preventive way, rather than culturally, abuses that were strong but which were not as fatalistic as they want to create an impression here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43425	Thank you. We're done with this morning's work. Continuation is at 15.00.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43426	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue the debate. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Did you switch with That's right. [[/Intruder: Yes, yes.]] Here you go. And then the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic. You're just, yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43427	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government and representatives of the State, the State Audit Office. I'll be brief in my part. I think we should get back to the point of the problem, and the point of the problem is that, we all agreed, that the State's audit and the State's Attorney's Office in terms of determining illegality has achieved a great deal, and the thing is clear. It's already mountains and hills of findings found and precisely found that in a huge number, almost 95% of cases of established illegalities. The rightly known principle of something acquired illegally cannot ever become legal. We unfortunately have here in case of conversion and privatisation quite another approach. Something that's been obtained illegally, and we've seen what number of cases it's also about breaking the law, it becomes legal, and that's the part where we have to stop and determine the facts. And the fact is, I'm not going to enter the area of criminal law and statute. I enter only this area how and how to sanction all these illegalities that are ecladically established. It is visible to you in one of the following reports that in these cases the State Attorney's Office has found that this is an amount of over EUR 1 billion. Therefore, these are huge amounts and, in the future, legally speaking, we are today not only discussing the supplementation or amendment of the law on the revision of conversion and privatisation. We are essentially making a new law with the same provisions again because if this law is not passed according to the final provisions, the old one ceases to be valid with a date which means established and supplemented by the Government's regulation. So it's about the new law so let's use the legal option and introduce a new institute, which is to make it binding on the government and all the competent authorities that in all cases when it is found that the conversion or privatisation has been carried out in an illegal manner. Thus, such an assessment has been established, established either in the finding of the State Audit or in the case of the State Attorney's Office. Let us finally act as a rule of law and oblige the Government to in all such cases, on official duty, initiate the procedure of declaring legally invalid such conversion and privatisation in any particular case. They don't perform, it's not a revolution, there's no adverse consequences. In fact, we're making it impossible for something that's illegally acquired to become legal and to keep spinning around in circles. To perform audits, new audits and audits on audits, and without concrete results. So in this sense, we from the Croatian Party Club of Rights and submitted amendments, and that is what it is and I have repeatedly stressed that the aim is not only to establish but to sanction it, so let us give the possibility to sanction it because it is certainly about the adoption of a new law, because it will definitely have to be classified as the part that Mr Arlovic was saying that a new deadline for asking for requests to enable the implementation of the state audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43428	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43429	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law on Privatisation, on Change, on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. We know that the consequences of this Law were very serious, that they were, that they reflected on the economy as they reflected on labour-social law. But worse yet, they have left considerable consequences on this country's morale plan. The State Audit Office's report pointed to a number of irregularities and illegalities during the conversion and privatisation of social and state capital. The state of conversion and privatisation incomplete even though it is not clear from this into how many objects and on which cases are all these audits not made until the end? However, there is a legitimate concern that such a situation could continue to cause serious harm to our economy, as well as to the whole of Croatia, to all Croatian society. In order to prevent further disturbances caused by the economy by conversion and privatisation, and the revision report requires access to amendments to the law. But not only in a way that extends the time limit as proposed by this Bill but by amending and supplementing all possible provisions that would allow for the initiation of the procedure and correcting the injustice and damage done to numerous citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What is achieved by this proposal? The whole thing is just being delayed, so we're going to meet here again in a year, and we're going to have another debate about what it's been done, whether it's done, what the damage has been caused, and how it's finally sanctioned, and instead of 1558, we're going to have maybe 2,000 cases, and instead of the 4 proceedings being initiated, we're going to have maybe 6 procedures started. That certainly isn't the purpose of this law that we're discussing here today. We need to be able to correct injustice and repay funds, and we can only do so if we change the regulation. For example, you will say that this has already been mentioned several times, but why has the subject of conversion and privatisation not been abolished or the statute of limitations has been abolished and the state's attorney is allowed to do his job? I know you're going to say it's a constitutional category, that we need to change some parts of the Constitution and so on, but I'm saying it's us who can do it. Why has the change of legislative, criminal law not been accepted in due time, which could have been far more achieved in sanctioning these very things in conversion? We are aware that this cannot correct all injustices, but surely by processing at least a certain number of cases, we will show the will to correct a number of irregularities that have seriously impoverished the citizens of Croatia in the 1990s and to question how the political credibility of the Republic of Croatia and the morality of our entire society. I agree with the proposals put forward today and with the view that it cannot go lightly over all those privatisations, the poor privatisations we have also found. And justice as long as it lasts, one day we come to it. Exactly 450 thousand citizens who have lost their jobs are exactly what they expect us to do. So let's try to make it right. We will also create new frameworks for new situations, for new privatisations, and these frameworks will certainly be better quality that we will not repeat what has happened to us again, what happened in the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43430	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43431	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I could start looking like this, and hopefully I will get the support of fellow members of this House that the consequences of privatisation and conversion in Croatian are not disputed between us. So the conversion and privatisation did not achieve the goals that were envisaged. That this is true and that we agree on this also in the proposal for a proposal to amend and supplement this Act or to extend the period of validity of the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. If so, and thus the conversion and privatisation did not achieve the objectives and other facts which among us cannot be disputed that the State Audit... carried out a review of the conversion and privatisation for both ourselves and for us because it was a body that corresponded to us, and not to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, uncontestedly found that privatisation and conversion had an infamous characteristic of illegality. The vast majority of privatisation was illegal, any rank or degree of illegality, but it was illegal. And when we add that we are already in this House, we have three times the conclusions on the revision of conversion and privatisation, and then the citizens know that when the conclusions are made and addressed as if one government is Croatian and the other is not. It's like we don't have legal continuity and we don't have the continuity of the bad consequences of privatisation. To us comes the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, which the Government actually adopted at its phone session, which means 28 or 30 August this year, by its regulation extended the validity of the regulation from last year. If this is the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this Parliament to the problems of conversion and privatisation, then we really do not need to speak to the citizens any more. We just don't know how to solve that knot or we don't. I think it's not about ignorance, but it's about us wanting to concreteize, end up with conversion, privatization, and so say liberating the responsibilities of those who took part in the conversion and privatisation in the Croatian way that we say it. Why do I say that? So was this year's most privatizing affair with Liburnia Riviera hotels. By what law is this privatisation attempted? What government did that? And we extend the deadline for reviewing conversion and privatisation, and we continue with the practice that has been so far, and found that 93% of these practices were not legal. Well, really, do we think that we can't really change the model of privatisation, at least save a little bit of that, those values and legality in that area, that even those who have lost their jobs, whether 299 999 thousand workers or 300 grand as we disagree on it is less important, it's less important. Therefore, if we want to do something, it is primarily to look for new privatisation models so that TLM Sibenik does not happen either. Therefore, with capital there is also a business, not even Liburnia Riviera hotels which compromise both the state and privatisation and the system of shares and the system of shareholders. Because in Croatia it is very important to become the owner of an absolute owner of the entire company. It's like no one trusts anyone, and there's probably a reason why, because systems don't work in this country. So it's very important to become the owner of 98%, not 40% or 3%, as they say Angelie ruled the Fiat for almost 20 years. So we compromise the entire system in stock. Does it make sense to pass the law when the Government passed it by a regulation? It's identical. I don't think the government had the right to extend the law, because it's not an area that has to be dealt with temporarily and not temporarily. But let's let it go, it's less important now. Does it make sense to pass a law on the continuation of the revision of conversion and privatisation and thereby engage limited human potential in offices and the State Audit Institution? In this way, take away the possibility that the basic section, the control of budget spending, is not controlled annually by around 100 billion kunas. No one in this country has benefited from the effects of the revision of conversion and privatisation. It's huge work, huge effort, and it's misleading citizens, but it's using none. And we're moving on to the same model. Do we think citizens can't recognize that? I think they recognize that, that they are not hoping for some major change, and even more dramatically they say that privatisation will continue in the present way and that vital parts of this society's economy. This is really worrying, and of course it says that the government is not thinking about changing the concept, but is trying to keep the existing concept, try to keep in its own hands privatisation and thus end this process, rather than try to start, and here it has already been said several times at least some working group that would come up with a new concept or that cancer early privatisation of Croatian banks would reduce its consequences. So let's say we founded an HBOR investment and export bank. Don't we have a right to that? From the Post Office Bank, for example, a utility bank, privatization allowed workers to buy shares. Maybe that's how we reduce the pressure to say car loans and other consumables. All of this is not analysed when the government proposes to extend the time limit of the State Audit to the revision of conversion and privatisation. So, the government says we continue to consume labour, work capacity, and the result will be as it has been in three years. So there's going to be 93% of illegal privatisation, and the consequences will be who the cave was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43432	Thank you very much. Minister Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43433	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, allow me, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, to repeat once again why the Government is proposing this Act amending the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. I've said it a few times, so I'm going to do it again, not to stop something, not to cover something up, but to allow for further revision of what's already been done if it's a need, a revision that hasn't been done if the elements are found that it should be, and that's exactly what I'm saying I'm going to still quote you exactly from the Law on the revision of the conversion and privatisation of Article 11. We know therefore that the launch of the privatisation review could therefore have been initiated by the Association of Small Shareholders, by every shareholder, by the Financial Police, by the Croatian Pension Institute, etc. It is stated who can do everything, but it is also said in Article 11 that if a request for the initiation of a conversion and privatisation procedure is not submitted by the authorised entities, the audit procedure can be initiated by the competent authority and it is not said that only those 60 days can do so, the procedure can be initiated by the authority responsible for the audit." The next thing that is particularly important is Article 19, which says that where the audit was carried out and if it has been found that everything was right, that it can no longer be initiated by the audit, but may, in the case of new facts and documents relating to the violation of the law. And that first case and that second case is only possible if the law is alive. Therefore, the prolongation of this law for a year allows the instruments and the competent authority to be audited, even if new facts are established that the re-audit is carried out where it was, but if we have this law. Therefore, it is clearly said, therefore, that this government wants this law to continue and suggests that we have it in place in our lives so that we can just do what I said before and possibly review it where it has already been and if new facts or audits have occurred based on the request of the competent authority for review. And, not to say another important element, today there has also been a debate in this debate about what with some kind of privatisations that are going and going, then I would like to remind you that the revision of the Croatian Privatisation Fund is being carried out every year, the report is also being submitted here to the Parliament. That this revision of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and all those privatisations carried out through the Fund may be based on the fact that a competent audit body also initiates an additional revision of a particular privatisation if it is deemed to have needs. I'm only saying this because once again, the Government's proposal is only going in the direction and the desire that this law continues to exist, that it is in force, because it provides the possibility that and the audits that have already been carried out are repeated, if there are arguments and elements for it, or to be done somewhere they are not, if there are arguments. If that law isn't in force, then they couldn't even do it. And that's the basic meaning, and that's what the Proposer with these amendments to the law wanted to create and those assumptions with this kind of prolongation in a year's time we'll have then that we can continue to act everywhere where it's estimated and assessed by the competent authorities that there's a need to carry out the audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43434	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43435	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It's a big debate about a small law. What exactly is this about? What is the purpose of bringing this law? What will be done and what has not been done so far? Will the statute of limitations cease to be obsolete? Will something be annulled from the privatisation that was found to be definitely badly done? Is there anything to be said about the rules that were the way they were and led to the results that we have today in Croatia? Is all this going to happen together, or is it just going to be that fog that my colleague Stazic was talking about, which is here? Is all of this done to tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that it was quite fine, fair, smart, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia that, for example, Karlovačka brewery is sold to an edict practically to someone who has invested a little money in the business and has drawn enough to buy most of Poreč? So will the last ten, twelve years of answers actually not answer those questions in this year? Another aspect of the whole thing. The Republic of Croatia is a signator of numerous international agreements, agreements, and so on, which oblige it in such a way to apply in front of Croatian laws. For example, Security Council Resolution No. 757 since 1992 discusses the ban on the availability of property, especially real estate, the citizens of Yugoslavia. That resolution freezes property. The Republic of Croatia brought in '96. In the 8th month of '96. Law on normalisation of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In Annex G to that contract, the same things are explained on occasion. So it's about the rights of Yugoslav citizens to the property they had in the Republic of Croatia and vice versa, of course, the rights of Croatian citizens who have in Yugoslavia. The 2001 Succession Act is precise. Our Law on Mandatory Relations speaks of the return of property acquired in a non-legal manner and of the return in full amount with tight interest. What I'm saying is that in this whole review and privatisation story of conversion, we're not saying that we're about to get another payment. We paid once, we paid twice, we'll pay three times. And the third time the waiter comes, he's going to draw the line and say, "Silent bits.", pay that bill. We'll pay for it, it'll be paid by the taxpayers of this state. This will also happen with apartments, or household rights, that will happen with privileged shares of citizens of other countries who have worked in our companies that are currently preparing a lawsuit in this regard. It's all gonna happen and we're gonna pay for it. The Romans, the old Romans had one proverb saying that something that blood started cannot become right over time. Obviously, the privatisation model that began as it began in the 1990s will never, ever become a real model, never will that property be fairly acquired and no honest citizen of the Republic of Croatia will ever agree that it is over. What would be the conclusion of all this? One, it's not over. It's not over, there are more aspects that we haven't even talked about, no one has ever talked about in Croatia without talking about those that aren't dressed to the end. Secondly, it won't be over in a year, especially not this way, because the revision of the conversion and privatisation that isn't being extended by new powers of law and new content, in fact, this year can't do anything or means that Mrs Krasic and the State Audit Office didn't do the job right, and we said here they did. And the third conclusion, we'll pay for it one more time, I repeat. What can be done? What Croatian citizens expect us to do is, of course, not entering legal opportunities, not getting into details how to do it, but this House, as the top representative of the Croatian people, is expected to undo what was done unfairly, because it is deserved, which has been obtained unfairly, can never become fair. To put into motion a model that in a fair manner of current state property, which has little more, once social property would turn into private property that would work on the well-being of all our citizens. That's one of the reasons, one of the key reasons why we were chosen here. That's one of the reasons the last government didn't go through in the reelection. She didn't keep that promise. She said she'd do it. She didn't do it. If we don't do it today, let's not fool ourselves that by lifting the carpet and pushing the dust under it, we've solved it. It's never gonna get fair. It will never be something we will be able to be proud of and it cannot be the basis of the Croatian economy and Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43436	Thank you. Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43437	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just like to remind you of the latest report the State Audit Office delivered to us, which we discussed here in the Parliament in mid-April this year. And I must remind myself that the Government of the Republic of Croatia then took note of the report on the work of the State Audit Office in 2004 and the report on the audits carried out for 2003. The Parliament also concluded: A report on work is accepted, the report is accepted, a little misspelled here, the report on the work on the conversion of the audit, conversion and privatisation for the period from December 2003 to September 2004 and the report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out. Then the debate was also about the final account, so to speak to the State Audit Office, because under this Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation Mrs. Šima Krasic came to us to the Parliament to defend that report and said, we have finished our work. Because according to this law as it is now, their work is done. Now, by extending the deadline for us who adopted their report, we want to say, that they've failed us, that they haven't made a good report, that some new companies have appeared, that someone has reported someone and the deadline has long expired, that I don't know if it's true, I'd have asked the State Auditor if any of the new businesses had come along, if someone's regulation extended your powers, if you have any other powers than those you had then. You don't. By extending the deadline, we throw fog, not fog, but sow darkness at everything we've tried to correct so far. And what we're doing right now is just throwing dust into the people's eyes and shining false promises that maybe something will be done. He won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43438	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43439	Dear President, Deputy Prime Minister, ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have here, for several hours we have been discussing whether to extend the law, or to extend the validity of the Law, which will allow us to review conversion and privatisation, I am all the time looking here on the right hand side of Mrs Simu Krasic, she sits very pleasantly in her chair and smiles at us. It might be good if now, we heard... .................................................................................... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She said, O.K., that we should, but that Mrs Krasic really told us whether there was a need for what they did to do the job to re-audit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is there really a need for what they did not include with the audit and which the authorised applicants submitted, therefore, that there is yet, so there is indeed a need to extend that deadline or extend this deadline for the reason that here... She said the debate could lead to a potential need for review. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the government said that the parliamentary debate could result in a potential need to revise some of the procedures implemented under this Act, whose validity we will now extend by one year. So it's not what the minister said it was, if it were this and if it were that. It's a lot of things now if you make this, if you make that. But okay, let's make a deal, let's extend the validity of this law not for a year, let's extend it by 2, 3, 5 years. But let's just say, all the companies that were in the process of conversion and privatisation will be subject to review. Not just the one who's gonna report shareholders, audits, state's attorney, or I don't know who. Because at this point, we really don't know whether there's such a need for this extension or not, because only if from this debate that we're having today, and which we're going to be running for the next two or three days, then the revision is going to work. If that's the need, then let's wait until we have that debate, and then after that debate, we'll see if there's such a need, and then we'll extend that deadline to how much that need will exist. Perhaps it would be really good to remove the possibility to clear any suspicion that there were irregularities somewhere without it being discovered, to tell the state's audit that it must carry out an audit of all the companies that were in the process of conversion and privatisation. And that's one thing. But the question arises what is when in the Law on Revision, Conversion and Privatisation, and only talks about the moment of the process of conversion and privatisation. What about the companies that were converted in 93 and today the state still has some sort of, weighing, significant, minority, majority share of its ownership. Perhaps in this area where there is a majority, so more than 51%, it could be required from the revision that the basis of the law performs an audit but what about companies where the state has 49% ownership, 26% ownership? How we, as advocates, protect and control, protect the interests of citizens and control what happens in these companies. So here, obviously, is either the reason why this is being sought or we don't know what the revision is going to do for the next year. I can't agree with a minister who just said that here's an authorized review person who can run an audit if something unquestionably suggests that it was a violation of the law. If something unquestionably suggests that there was a violation of the law then it is not done by the state's audit, then it is done by the state's attorney's office, then it is quite the other side in this Chamber that should act for it. So, I'd ask the government to say, okay, there are reasons, the reasons are you, you and you, we're going to submit all the companies to the conversion and the revision or there's no reason, but if there's a reason for this debate that we're going to be having to review, then we're going to extend it, but then let's turn the story to that behind this debate being made, make the deadline of this law. 'Cause anyway, we're still going to debate tomorrow, so tomorrow, we can have another debate and a decision on this law. And the other thing is that it can be derived from that audit at all. We've talked about it here today we're on a deadline. I think that if we really want to do a revision, then there is a need not only to change the Law on Auditing, Conversion and Privatisation in one article but also in many articles of this Law, but we need to change many other articles, and I hope that these conclusions and our will will, our willingness to finally see what is in this conversion and privatisation and to sanction those who are responsible. And those responsible are not only in the companies that have been converted, they are also responsible in the state administration for such conversion and privatisation. Here, if we can get these conclusions to agree with consensus to sanction these persons, then we can tell the citizens ok, there were irregularities, we've identified irregularities, there may be more in some companies, so we ask the review to carry out the revision and continue the process. But we're going to sanction all of them in some way regardless of their statute of limitations. By then, this really raises the question of why we should extend the deadline for something that we don't know what the content will be, which will be, we know what the content will be but we don't know what will be the subject of a state review in the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43440	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43441	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Mrsic said the reasons why the deadline was requested were wrong. This is an incorrect allegation because in the explanation we have that due to the extensiveness of the work and not to complete the complete audit, the full control of conversion and privatisation has not been carried out, and the extension of the deadline has been allowed to be fully implemented. This is why it is sought, and the esteemed colleague forgot that on 20 May 2002, the Croatian Parliament committed the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then President Ivica Racan, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, within 60 days, the adoption of the amendments and additions necessary for sanctioning the crime committed in conversion and privatisation, to protect the economic and other public interests of the Republic of Croatia. In order to bring the perpetrators of illegal acts of punishment, to be brought in and processed, to determine the origin of the money that privatization was made, and to sanction illegal acquisitions. Thank you very much. And it wasn't done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43442	Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43443	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, given the obvious misunderstanding or perhaps vague understanding of the articles of the Law which is subject and change, I would like to once again and pray that I have the opportunity to read the exact articles of the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation that give opportunity and revision to again, therefore, or that in some company that did not enter into the process of reviewing privatisation to do so. Or to repeat the audit in some where it was done. Therefore, in Article 11, I quote: "if no request has been made for the initiation of the review procedure of conversion and privatisation by authorised entities, the audit procedure may be initiated by the competent authority for the audit". So, if someone didn't run it, the review could run it. I will immediately mention it in the context of what I said. The audit of the state every year is an audit of the business of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, so all privatisation procedures. There is a basis that eventually, in some cases, when he sees and sees the need and begins to review that conversion and privatisation. And in Article 19, I will quote that in paragraph 3 "after the adoption of a specific opinion referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, a conversion and privatisation procedure can no longer be initiated for the same legal person, therefore, the process of reviewing conversion and privatisation". It is therefore for those conversions and privatisations where it has been found that it has been implemented correctly and in accordance with the law. So, it is said, "It is not possible to restart the review procedure unless new facts and documents refer to violations of the law in the process of conversion and privatisation, which were not known or not in the review procedure." That's clearly said. It is clearly stated in which case a review procedure for privatisation and conversion can be restarted, therefore, regardless of what has already been done if, therefore, there are some facts, documents relating to the injury. Therefore, it is a law that is now in force, and I see no reason why we should give up these possibilities. It's no doubt about whether the audit did well or not. This is a commitment, in my opinion, by the Croatian Government that suggests that this commitment also has this Croatian Parliament. That this Law is based on which we can continue to run certain audits as well as to exist. And I don't think there should be any problem in that why you extend it another year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43444	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. He's gone. The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica. He's gone. We're going to a five-minute club debate. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43445	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government. Well, I have to say, I'm a little confused with this wide-ranging debate today, but my confusion for you doesn't have to mean anything, so I'm just gonna repeat the views of the HSS Club and just some. So the HSS Club believes privatisation will not be completed by 30 September 2006. We believe that the state must in no way deny the control of the illegal conduct of those involved in the privatisation process, or of the country that is yet to take place. I also made it clear that if this were to happen, to set this fixed date, and until then privatisation is not over, that the whole job would fall to the State's Attorney's Office which we don't think is good, because simply substituting is a new, quality way of working. I also said I could look for some new solutions, not just talk about dates. So try to see one example. I am also absolutely certain as a representative and as a citizen of this country that the Republic of Croatia will one day go to the privatisation of Croatian forests. In all, in one part of the region, by the rivers, I don't know how these foresters, in any case some kind of privatisation will be. I am also sure that until that moment until this privatisation begins, no ownership relations will be resolved in terms of return and return requirements confiscated, nationalised, etc., assets. The question arises, if this privatisation of the Croatian Forests takes place tomorrow in Žumberak Mountain, to whom will those who have failed to exercise their old ownership rights and their demands lie somewhere in the administrative bodies, whom will they address? From whom will they seek the protection of their rights? Certainly not from a state attorney because it's just not about a crime. I'm sure they can't get protection from the local self-government unit because the local self-government unit is simply not competent. I can contact the occupier and have them cry on each other's shoulders because the vacancy attorney doesn't have the authority to handle it. They can turn to a regular court and probably 3 years, 4 years after privatizing their part of the privatised forest to get some satisfaction and make problems for themselves, both to the state and to the Croatian forests and to the subject who privatized it. The most logical thing would be to contact the Croatian Privatisation Fund, but the Fund must also have information about this. However, we saw that in the previous privatisation and conversion process, the Croatian Fund later, only at the intervention of the State Audit Office launched a whole series of procedures for not including certain properties, land, buildings, apartments, etc. the underlying capital, although it was all visible and all clear at that point. So if we want to be transparent, this is just one example simply. The State Audit Office shall continue to have those powers. So, in addition to the extension of the deadline, I believe that the Government could consider other changes to this Act in terms of the right of the authorising officer, which I was talking about, the meaning of the jurisdiction of the State Administration for the Review of Conversion and Privatisation, to consider future privatisations in which the authorising officer will apply, in order to consider whether it might be necessary for those thousands of or 300 unaudited companies which none of the authorising officers required audits, to include them in the audit. I know it's an additional job for the State Office, but I'm sure in these unaudited societies there are all kinds of traps after we've studied all this together and won. And another note. I'm not in that club that she thinks Grandma went through with the cookies. I didn't. The story that Grandma passed with cookies actually contributes to this House being unserious, to this Parliament coming into position and saying that we are powerless in front of bureaucracy, in front of the government, in front of the fund, in front of this, in front of that etc. But also in front of those who chose us. As long as there is any chance of exorcising justice about the greatest evil that has been achieved by the new Croatian state, which is conversion and privatisation, I believe that this law should be extended, that it should be given new contents, of course, if this government does not agree, some others will agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43446	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP club, Honored Representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43447	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Already in the debate for the first time on behalf of the club on this, I have actually made all our remarks and all our remarks to the proposed amendment and addition of the Privatisation and Conversion Act. But let me actually repeat just those accentes that we keep important. First of all, we hold that such a law as was proposed with all its shortcomings, and the flaws are presented in the debate and its fundamental flaw in our court at the club is that it is doing the very law that only extends the deadline of the State Audit. All those shortcomings that other clubs have made, above all, the SDP club, on how this law is proposed and that it is in fact an amendment to one government regulation, not an amendment to the law itself, and to this extent, to what substance in Article 21, which Mr. Minister said on behalf of the promoters that amendments are being submitted, although amendments can't be submitted to this proposal in a way that allows me to resume. From today's debate it is actually quite clear, Mr. Minister, that the problem of conversion and privatisation needs to be seen with many more points and perspectives than is usually an extension of the deadline for state audit. Because if this really remains only in the domain of extending the deadline for the state audit with all these legal and nomotechnical shortcomings that show how sloppy this law has actually been, or amending and supplementing this law, then really allow us to have the impression that because of these shortcomings and nomotechnical deficiencies, failures, an explanation which is referred to entirely wrong facts and above all the government's activities regarding the execution of Parliament's conclusions regarding the accepted report, the completed state audit, then let this approach really give us the impression that it was only intended to get an alibi in front of the public about the continuation of the revision, conversion and privatisation. Therefore, as a club, we cannot vote for such a law which is essentially unnecessary for the privatisation that is now taking place and which is completely ineligible in connection with the privatisation that has been going on so far, but we want the government to adopt instead a bill that allows us to rule over those who have illegally acquired property so far, because if we cannot prosecute them we can and must take away what they have illegally acquired. Thus, when such a law comes before us who will resolve that basic question, we will indeed be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43448	Thank you very much. Minister Vukelic. Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43449	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I really think that Mr Vukelic has mentioned several times that the basic reasons for extending the validity of this law are, say, those words. I will point out once again, they are contained in Articles 11 and 19. By extending the duration of this law, we allow exactly what Mr Tomcic has been seeking and what he advocates, and that is, above all, that in the case of any new very important and relevant data can be audited over the thousands of 300 companies that were privatised by April 2001, which were not covered, or for the revision of them, were not submitted. Also, by extending the deadline of this law, we are able and we are giving the State Audit Office the opportunity, even in those cases where it has given a positive opinion in a way that the process of conversion and privatisation of a particular company is carried out in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, if any additional relevant facts arise, the State Audit Office may accept these new facts and restart the revision process of that company. I really don't see what's going on here and why we should insist today not to. I also don't see how what we're proposing today is different from what you did with this law in 2001 and 2002. However, I also decidedly argue, there is no saying that we want to leave in the fog a further privatisation process and that we do not want to review companies that are privatised in the period from 2001 to today. It's just not like that. The State Audit Act defines the area of responsibility and competence of the State Audit Office and makes it clear in this law that each year the State Audit Office is also an analysis of the privatisation of each individual undertaking that took place in that year. Therefore, gentlemen, this law must remain alive in order to have opportunities in the event of the emergence of new additional information, to restart the revision of all that has been revised in order to have the opportunity to review the conversion and privatisation of those enterprises for which no request has been made, and the State Audit Act clearly defines and is based on it each year on the revision of the privatisation process, the revision of the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the subject matter of the Report that you discuss each year. Therefore, I ask you nicely to support this Law, and after that, to move to those points that you have already simply and simply opened a debate on them for which we are also all very interested in presenting them in an argument each and every one of us from our position and that we are dealing with far more important and relevant topics. At this very moment, simply this Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation must remain alive for the reasons that I have stated and the revision of conversion and privatisation continues on the basis of the Revision Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43450	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives DC HSLS LS 5-minute debate, respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43451	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well I felt the need to say two, three short words on behalf of the Club after a six-hour debate in which we heard what more or less everyone in Croatia know that we had one bad law and bad effects for the Croatian economy, Croatian society based on the application of this Law on Conversion and Privatisation. We could also hear what we had heard earlier where two of the most powerful parties were fighting and honoring one another’s responsibility. What we at the DC HSLS LS Club think is that when it comes to this law, and we all know that it is bad, however, when it comes to the application of this law, we know that the Croatian Democratic Community took political responsibility in the 2000 elections and it probably paid partly that responsibility in such a way. We heard during the debate from SDP colleagues that part of the worse election results in the last parliamentary elections were likely because they failed to implement those promises that would sanction all those effects are bad effects of privatisation and conversion. We hold that when it comes to this Act there are no innocents in this Act, that it is equally guilty of those who took and those who kept the bag, because then how to place responsibility for those persons from other political parties who have benefited from this Law, they knew when he was brought to have a lot of weak sides, however, they did not get to take business, come to many riches, therefore, the responsibility for this Act is not only borne by one political party, they carry a lot of political parties that were influential in Croatian society, and I think we should all turn to that way to get out of these discussions where we are actually spinning in one circle... there is really wisdom that we come out of all this because for years we have been accusing each other and I think that we are sending bad messages to the citizens, and these bad messages are getting into everyone's head.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43452	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Antolic. Here you go. Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43453	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative on behalf of the Club has made an incorrect claim that in this process everyone is guilty, it is simply not true. It's fogging, throwing dust in the eyes, that it was actually the ruling set.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43454	Comrade Antesic, I apologize to you because I accidentally changed your name.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43455	Thank you very much. That means I'll live a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43456	And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a 5-minute debate, the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43457	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This bill requires only one thing to extend the deadline by one year for this job to be completed, however, it is obvious that the very word of conversion and privatisation opens up such fierce and fierce discussions as we had today. We at the HDZ Club as we have already said and in the opening presentation we will support this Bill proposal because we respect the reasons that the Government has stated that the work is not done until the end, that it should certainly be implemented and therefore we will support this Law. There were also difficult words that this law throws dust in the eyes, that this law wants to create even greater fog in privatisation, which we cannot possibly accept. In fact, one of the arguments was that, at the same time as this law, we had to extend the 60-day deadline in which the request for an audit could be submitted. I have to say that we can no longer extend that deadline, that deadline expired in 2001 within 60 days of this law came into force. I must remind myself that in 2002 and earlier the Government and the earlier composition of the Parliament also had almost identical text of this law requiring the extension of the deadline, nor in that Law which was passed in 2002 was the requirement to extend, in fact it could not be extended but could only open a new deadline for those 60 days, but the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister clearly said that there was one original authorisation from the Law of the State Office for Auditing that even without such requests actually carry out the audit itself. Therefore, we cannot accept such an argument, we think it is necessary to enable the State Audit Office, which has already put forth a huge effort and huge work throughout this project to finish the project. We disagree with the argument that nothing can be done anymore, there are still options. I think we're all too focused on that criminal-legal aspect, we all want people in prison, we all want someone to end up in jail because something in that conversion did one way or another. We forget that all these contracts are based on the conversion and privatisation that were all civil-legal, civil-legal contracts, that they are all subject to the law on mandatory relations. There is one institute that we are not yet late for, which is to establish the futility of any such contracts that would be contrary to the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, which says that the contract that is contrary to the Constitution, to the coercion or to morality is void. And for that kind of procedure, it's civil legal proceedings we're not yet late. And that's why in these years or what's been suggested not to be or to be fixed in a year, but to be until the job is done, I think we need to concentrate and we need to go that way. Therefore, the state authorities should review all these contracts once more, review all documents and see if they exist in this institute because we are not late, there is no statute of limitations. What's nothing, nothing is... ever since it means that such a contract was not, everything that is based on the contract is returned. And so I think we should work that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43458	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43459	Your Honor, Mr. President, just before it was said how I said it before, it was said that it wasn't tossing dust in the eyes, quite the contrary, this law is respected gentlemen inconclusive. You cannot revise the conversion today, it is best known by Mr Polancec, who was at the head of a high duty in a large Croatian company, who will today revise the way Agrokor acquired a whole series of companies in the Republic of Croatia when his power was a guarantee of his loans. On the other hand, we have four convictions, according to what we're talking about. We can only fool ourselves and the Croatian public. Conversion today is in position when it cannot be revised. We can only make sure that future privatisations don't happen by the script of Liburnia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43460	Thank you. Does the draft law minister want a final review? Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43461	Thank you very much, President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for all the discussions that have been aimed at how and in what way not only through these amendments that are proposed today and debates but through the amendments to the law, how to make this law more effective and better. But what is the goal, both the purpose and the intention of the legislator of this law to adopt the law in an emergency procedure so practically this week, because we know that the regulation extends the period until September 30th. So that's until the end of this week. So, to extend that period of validity of the law for the next year, which certainly provides opportunities and what I am many times today and Vice President Polancec has made clear the possibilities and I would say re-auditing or new audits. So there's a law that we can say whether it's effective or not, but so it would still exist. And on the other hand, it opens up the possibility that, with living law, we will go into change and content and all the other things that were discussed today and the proposals, and I think we really need to respect them and that we will respect them in the next debates on this law. But what is particularly important, I think, is that there is no reason to give up on the existence of this law, and that is why the promoter has made an amendment to this one that applies practically only to this year's extension of the period of validity of this law, and I think that the debates that will certainly give a lot of good proposals, I believe, and the conclusions of this House, as far as the conversion and privatisation and the revision of conversion and privatisation are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43462	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on the proposal for this law. Final proposal of the Act amending the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Minister Branko Vukelic to be shown about the amendments. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43464	Thank you, Mr. President. Amendment of the Legislative Committee is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43465	Thank you for becoming an integral part of the law. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43466	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43467	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43468	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43469	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I note that the amendments proposed by the respected representatives of Pero Kovacevic and the Club of HSP Representatives have not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as Article 163(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be read if the final draft of the law amends and supplements the law may only be submitted in the article covered by the proposed amendments and amendments. Your amendments refer to a change in the name of the Law and an article that completely changes the content of the Law. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43470	Your Honor, Mr. President, I disagree with your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure for the fact that we do not pass this Law amending the law ceases to apply, therefore it is a whole law, because with this provision that is now being amended we are putting into operation all the 20 and some of the provisions that are contained in the law. Therefore, you are incorrectly interpreting in this case our amendment because it is about changing the entire law because it would cease to apply in the final provisions finely written. We're looking for an interpretation of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43471	For me, it is quite clear, the amendment and addition of this Law only extends to one year of validity of the whole law and only changes that one single article on the extension of the deadline is therefore only changing that in the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation in Article 21(2) of the word "30 September 2005" is replaced by the words "30 September 2006". This is the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law, and when it is examined in accordance with Article 163(3), it is a matter that is absolutely clear because amendments can only be submitted to the articles covered by the proposed amendments and amendments. And I repeat the amendments and additions only the article is changed, only the article that changes the time-limit of the law is covered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43472	On behalf of the Club, I have asked that the committee which is relevant be read in this section, I do not agree on behalf of the Croatian Party Club with your interpretation because if the whole law is not passed, it ceases to apply. Look, you're changing the final provisions, we know what the final provision means, she says by the time the law applies, therefore, you automatically amend the whole law because you put all the provisions in office, therefore, we can't go to the vote until the committee is clear. What if the Committee is shown to be right, and it is likely to be manifest if it is properly discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43473	I'll put you to the vote. If you are not satisfied if you think that I have made a mistake, the Constitutional Committee may discuss it later, and the Constitutional Court, if you think it is my mistake. On behalf of the Club, Honorable Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43474	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you allow me just two sentences to say that I am not looking for a break, I don't think it would be rational, in the course of a debate by the government's representatives, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Economy Minister have accepted some suggestions that the HSS Club has spoken of that this law should be extended to a longer term and that some additional newspapers should be introduced into the law except for this single provision that is changing. I'm only saying this because we know that the government, meanwhile, has given up what it said during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43475	Please. There are no obstacles to anyone's suggestion but later the change of the law with an extension of the deadline. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 82 votes for, 13 abstentions and 4 against the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43476	At its meeting of 14 April 2005 following the debate on the report on the work on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation for the period from December 2003 to 2004 and the report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out, the Croatian Parliament concluded that it required certain state authorities to deliver their observations and reports. In the execution of this conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Privatisation Fund provided the required evidence, the State Attorney's Office submitted its report, the Croatian National Bank submitted its report, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks submitted its report. You've received all these reports. And that's the topic now of this point that's on the agenda. Secondly, the government has also proposed to hold a debate on the implementation of the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament since 29 May 2002, adopted with the report on the work on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation and the report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out. And third, respected representative Ivanis suggested that a discussion be held on coupon privatisation and the effects of coupon privatisation. I asked the Prime Minister to deliver some material that would be the basis for this discussion of coupon privatisation. The government informed the Croatian Parliament to hold a discussion on coupon privatisation and on the basis of a special Separat and special Report sent by the State Audit Office and on what the discussion on the revision of the conversion and privatisation was carried out on the basis of "the purchase privatisation". Proposer of this initiative, respected Ivanis, agreed. So, in addition to these four reports, to hold a discussion on coupon privatisation with all and concreto and parts, and debates, and especially those most prominent in terms of coupon privatisation. They would therefore now conduct a joint discussion covering these four reports, which would include a discussion on the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament from 29 May 2002 and on the coupon privatisation and on the basis of the State Office's report on the privatisation of the coupon. - (a) Explanation of the Croatian Privatisation Fund at the Report of the State Office for the Audit of Conversion and Privatisation carried out, Report on Procedures and Privatisations, as well as data on Cash Payments for the Buying of Shares and Shares, as well as the issuing of Consensus for Disposal of Assets; (b) Report on the Work of State Lawyers on Criminal Matters in the connection with Conversion and Privatisation; (c) Report of the Croatian National Bank on the process of setting up or reshaping banks into a limited liability company or company, which was carried out under the Banks Act and other Financial Organizations / "The Official Journal of the SFRY" No. 10/1989, 40/1989, 87/1989, 18/1990 and 72/1990/ for each bank individually and on changes in the ownership structure of these banks; d) Report of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks; - Discussion of the conclusion of the Croatian Assembly of 29 May 2002, adopted with the report on the work on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation and the report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out here are also present four representatives of these institutions who have submitted an indication or reports, and I think they should have had the opportunity to, even though they have given written form to further explain their proposals on reports which have been submitted to the Parliament in written form. I'm guessing some respected MPs want the debate to take 20 minutes. That was it. Okay. It means there's one topic, even though it's one topic. This is colleague Rosic and colleague Cain for the clubs for 20 minutes. Please first performer of the office of President of the Croatian Privatisation Fund Grg Ivezić to submit an oral report on the Croatian Privatisation Fund's indication on the State Audit Office report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out, the report on the procedures launched and the actions taken, as well as the data on cash payments for the purchase of shares and shares, as well as the issuing of consent for the acquisition of assets. Comrade Cain, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43477	Dear Mr. President, yes, ours was also a requirement that these four points plus the fifth, plus this coupon privatisation be united in 20 minutes. However, something else is inadmissible and that these points of the agenda are not transmitted by Croatian Radio-Television. The agreement was on which you were Mr. President, me and many other colleagues that Croatian Radio-Television should monitor topics of national interest. As they were privatised, companies audited them for a total of 556 in the Republic of Croatia is certainly something of a fundamental national interest. If, on the other hand, the Croatian Parliament cannot "impose, say, ask" Croatian Radio-Television to directly monitor two or three topics of national interest and, on the other hand, receive a subscription, receive, are free of VAT, etc. Then it will only mean that the Parliament is nothing, and that all power is now concentrated in media and capital. At this level we simply "vis avis" the dignity of this House must not be brought down and I think if we take care of ourselves then, for 12, 20 minutes, we will use the authority of this institution and ask the Director of Mr Galic to allow the direct transfer of this assembly session.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43478	Dear fellow MP, the Croatian Parliament neither its president nor we as representatives really have any effect on direct transmissions and indirect and any transmissions of Croatian Radio Television. We will discuss the programme soon, the report of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council. Each, every initiative of the directorship, principal or editor of Croatian Radio-Television by any of us is experienced and assessed as unauthorized pressure and therefore we will have this special debate. But we are witnessing that the Croatian Parliament and important events and events in the Croatian Parliament, political important events and events and censorships and ignoring and ignoring by the editorials of individual editors of Croatian Radio and Television. For the editorship of Croatian Radio Television, it is not news to be announced that the president of the Croatian Parliament participated this year at the 2nd Millennium Conference of Presidents of all parliaments of the world. In 2000, President Tomcic served as Parliament Speaker at that Millennium Conference in New York, this year it was me. TV thinks it's not news, editors. I cannot in any way influence that on direct or indirect transmission, on terms. It's a matter of principalship. That's our position. Mrs. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43479	Well, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, in Croatia, we know very well that you as President of the Parliament cannot influence the transmissions and intolerances of the Assembly's session. However, as President of the Parliament, you can decide with the consent of clubs and at the request of clubs to discuss these points tomorrow when there is a transfer because of the consequences, I would say the consequences of privatisation, but I also expect through this debate to try to find solutions to resolve the damage because we should not forget that the privatisation process involved state assets worth 80 billion kuna. That's not my opinion. That's the opinion of the review. That in the process, 95% of cases of irregularities and illegality and the Croatian public have the right to know. And as for this broad explanation of yours that you do not want to affect Croatian television because it is misread is the least of the problems when the President of the Parliament asks or proposes or let me not use any other word, transfer, this, session of the Parliament. The problem is in some other influences on Croatian television, not yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43480	A colleague of Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43481	Well, Mr. President, I really agree with my colleague Lalic at the HSS Club, and I don't think we really need to put pressure on HRT. Nothing should be asked of them or asked of them. We have a date. It's a happy society today, so I think there's still joy in the Parliament. [[The intruders don't understand.]] [[Intruder: Peace!]] So I don't think we should put pressure on HRT. HRT has its own scheme. We have a certain number of hours that are broadcast directly on television, and I think we could adapt to that. I therefore also propose on behalf of the SDP Club to continue this debate tomorrow, and to use it until 19:00 this afternoon to discuss some other points of the agenda. Thank God, we've got over 40 of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43482	Thank you very much. We'll continue the debate. Please...... Nothing more, Mr. Cain. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please state v.d. President of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Thank you very much. I won't tell you again. I can't influence television. I'm not gonna delay the debate and transfer it to tomorrow just for the transmission of HTV. Here's my colleague Ivesic. Now you had it on behalf of the club. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Now you had it on behalf of the Club of Fellows. [[Intruder: Dear Sir]] Now you had it on behalf of the club. Gentlemen and colleagues, I will give you on behalf of the club. I'm the only one who points out that we're not going to be working on these subjects for 7 hours, given the number of people reported. We'll work a little longer today and tomorrow. We need to absorb these topics. We need to absorb these topics. We have a lot of other topics, and because of TV and for direct direct transmission, I will not and can't delay the session of the Parliament to make certain topics precisely timed so that they will be at the time of direct television transmission. What? [[The intruders don't understand.]] Let's darken things up. Please wait a minute. On behalf of the Club and for which I ask the honourable representative Zlatko Tomcic on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43483	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, I speak extremely well-meaningly, and finally, in connection with our meeting this morning. If you'll allow me two sentences and that's what I'm talking about. I think we've done well this morning with some tendency to try to create a better quality atmosphere with less insult, with less stubbornness on either side and so on. No matter what we've been through, we've finished the debate. No matter how far we've come to the conclusion, Mr. President. Your firm stand will not have a good effect on the calm of passions in this House. That's why I'm extremely well-meaning and soberly begging. Understand that for this topic is a very strong public interest. Please also understand that for this topic, for this topic and for Croatian parliamentary representatives have an interest in hearing them, the public hears them. At the end of the two weeks we work neatly until 7:00 p.m.... Mr. President, can I speak neatly without these bogeymen from the bench that we also talked about this morning? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43484	What incursions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43485	Obviously you can hear when you want to hear it. And when you won't hear, you won't hear. If we could work neatly for two weeks until 7:00 p.m., now you've already started threatening to work on this important topic late at night and so on. I don't think it's simply that you as President of the Parliament that you are thus not encouraging that the topic we started this morning is in such a tolerated sense and that we end up getting some smart conclusions that this Parliament will work in a more tolerated atmosphere. So, no matter what decision you make, I once again pray that, in your hands this time, a decision on whether this sensitive topic will be an atmosphere cooked in this House or be tolerated? I'm asking you to transfer the debate for tomorrow, and I'm sure it will be better than tonight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43486	Thank you very much. Representative Cain on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43487	That's what you said. I can't really understand, Mr. President, that the request for a broadcast on Croatian television on these points of the agenda would be experienced, quotes you: "Irregular pressure on Croatian radio television.". I just can't believe that you can't do what Mr. Tomcic, regularly, could. He would, for example, call or call the principalship and the transfer would be secured. So I'm just asking you to protect the integrity of it. It's not that... [[The speakers speak out loud, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43488	Okay. Peace, please! Ivan Jarnjak, HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43489	Your Honor, Mr. President. First, we have to be realistic and say that tomorrow this topic goes in the morning according to the television scheme is in half 11 to half 2. Therefore, there can be only a few practical clubs, not all clubs, and especially not all individuals. Therefore, some would be privileged, some would not be. That's the first thing. So I'm on behalf of the club, but before I say it, I'd like to say it's not true that the sessions were being transferred, and even the budget was at a deaf hour of night without any TV cameras, and I don't know what's more important than making a state budget. I suggest, Mr. President, on behalf of the club, that we proceed on the agenda and according to that schedule that you, as president, will determine, which you have according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43490	Thank you very much. I'll continue the debate. ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, gentlemen and ladies. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43491	On behalf of the SDP club, I'm asking you nicely for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43492	Very good, half an hour off. Honorable representative Branimir Glavas on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43493	Mr. President, you said you couldn't influence, so I would advise you to ask the Prime Minister. The prime minister can influence, as he has repeatedly pressured Croatian television and cut contributions from the experience of Croatian television during his behaviour. For example, I remember Latina when it was about his way of acquiring property. I ask you to call the prime minister, have the Prime Minister call Mr Galic and try to secure a television broadcast for tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43494	Thank you very much for your truly original advice. I'm setting a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43495	We're moving on with the session. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43496	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP club, I express my dissatisfaction with this way of working by Parliament because, above all, a completely different agenda schedule was agreed at an extended session of the Presidency ten days ago. In that case, it was said that this week's debate would begin with this series of reports, and beyond that there is a law that would be a logical order, not as we went today. And the debate that was opening here today has proved precisely that illogicalness because more debate was being held about what is now waiting for us in the debate than the law whose need and necessity was needed and resulting from the debate on this set of reports that we have ahead of us. We, on behalf of the SDP Club, together with the HSS Club, have proposed a solution that would not lead to the position of the President of the Parliament to order anything to public television and we have proposed a solution which could therefore be accepted that there was political will. So we suggested starting with this topic tomorrow morning, and today we discuss some other points. Unfortunately, that's not accepted. It is quite clear why this kind of engineering is in Parliament today. It is, therefore, exclusively for the purpose of hiding this topic from the Croatian public. Regardless of the fact that there will be no direct television transmission, it is quite certain that Croatian citizens know very clearly and well what was going on in the audit, i.e. in the privatisation and conversion itself. They know the full truth, and we, as parliamentary representatives of opposition parties, will make every effort, independently of the will of the Parliament, to move the point tomorrow and to keep it public, we will also try to inform the Croatian public about this debate today, which will obviously take place by late morning hours so that nothing can be heard in public and that a number of MPs and give up the debate. So if there was any political will, there could be a solution that would primarily lead to a little more order in this House, this way I'm afraid we're not on the trail of what we had this morning as a meeting at an extended session of the Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43497	My colleagues and colleagues, today the Croatian Radio Television directly transferred a parliamentary debate from 10.30 to half. If this proposal were to be adopted, if today were to stop with the debate and the debate on these issues would not begin and move on to other topics, we would have the next situation. To discuss this online topic may take ten days. Why? Because tomorrow we should start discussing these topics at 10:30. Who assures us it won't be the same direct transmission until half past two. Taking into account the number of representatives reported, taking into account all expected polemics, reports, we would have had a dozen working days, because we should always hold a debate three now that it's a direct transfer and then break up and then go on some other topics and then wait again the next day and from half past half past two lead the debate. That's how it would have been if today's debate on these online issues had been delayed. ... My colleague Racan, please don't get into my word. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's nothing wrong with me interpreting the proposal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate. The public is present, this is a public session of the Parliament and I ask the President of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the performer of the duty, Grga Ivezić, to further explain the submission of the Croatian Privatisation Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43498	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. On the basis of the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises in the Republic of Croatia, a total of 2,895 conversion of social enterprises, i.e. the conversion procedures completed by the solutions referred to in Articles 12 and 13. The law on the conversion of social enterprises and the number includes companies within the meaning of Article 9(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the conversion of social enterprises. Under the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation, the State Audit Office has revised a total of 1.556 conversions of social enterprises so far. The report on the work on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation for the period from December 2003 to September 2004, which revised a total of 287 companies, found by the analysis of the Croatian Privatisation Fund that the number 271 of the social enterprise was transformed into a company based on the provisions of the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises, and 16 companies were converted by other regulations. The analysis of the process of reviewing the conversion and privatisation of that 271 social enterprise shows that the State Audit Office has determined that in 199 companies the conversion process was carried out without any observed irregularities, i.e. that the privatisation procedure in 220 companies was carried out without any irregularities. The structure of the irregularities observed in the conversion process shows that the most frequent irregularities relate to the application of Article 2. The law of conversion. In this group of irregularities observed, cases occur where, for various reasons, and most often due to the lack of documentation, the requirements of former owners and others were not possible to precisely determine the land status, and in practice, the social capital assessment included agricultural land, i.e. undeveloped building land or building land. The Croatian Privatisation Fund, in all cases where the irregularity was detected at the request of the party, was under official duty in the process of restoring and converting solutions, removed irregularities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law of conversion. It is mostly about cases where the State Audit Office had a different methodological approach for assessing individual balance sheet items, and also in cases where social capital assessment at book value was to be carried out when, in the opinion of the State Audit Office, it was to carry out a value assessment. It is mainly enterprises in the field of special state care, i.e. previously occupied areas where the possibility of assessing social capital was temporarily disabled and also in the assets of enterprises located in the area of the former republics. Procedures for the assessment of that property were initiated after the adoption of the Privatisation Act and many are still under way. The last major group of irregularities observed in the field of conversion is related to Article 47. The Privatization Act. The Croatian Privatisation Fund considers that there is no irregularity in the process of conversion, since social capital is evaluated only by assets for which, in addition to the decision on the conversion of the company, evidence of the right to dispose, use or management. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Privatisation Act of the Croatian Privatisation Fund provides solutions to which, in the case of a technological unit, it assesses and obliges companies to increase the underlying capital and transfer the Fund of new shares. Otherwise, it transfers that property into the property of the Fund. In the structure of irregularities observed in privatisation proceedings, the majority of the part is related to the application of Article 36. The Privatization Act. It is cases where a sale contract has been concluded with a discount between the original shareholder and the new acquirer, in which no agreement on the sale of shares has been delivered to the Croatian Privatisation Fund, so the remaining debt has not been paid to the Fund once within 6 months of the date of conclusion of the contract. This group should be accompanied by cases of irregularities detected in the application of Article 21d of the Converting Act where the State Audit Office estimates that sales contracts for unpaid shares have not been drawn up in such a way as to be prescribed by that provision of the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises. The Croatian Privatisation Fund is not a party to those contracts, so it cannot be held responsible for these irregularities in any way, nor does it affect them. A significant group of irregularities observed also relate to the application of Article 8. The Act on Conversion prohibiting the financing of the purchase of shares on the burden of the company's assets. The control of the conversion of the Croatian Privatisation Fund was based on the provision of Article 45a of the Law on Conversion, until the Constitutional Court decided that the provision was declared unconstitutional. After that, any possibility for the Croatian Privatisation Fund to react after enrolling the company in the court register in cases where shares were found to be paid to the burden of the company's assets. Except for the criminal charges filed by the Fund. Based on an analysis carried out by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, it can be concluded that the largest number per State Office for the revision of the observed irregularities in the process of conversion and privatisation outside the responsibility of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and that it is only a small number of irregularities compared to the overall process of conversion and privatisation carried out, and in no case would such violations of the Law on Conversion and privatisation make a single conversion, i.e. privatisation illegal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43499	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43500	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting the wrong or incorrect allegations of the gentleman who has established here between us, first we have to realize that we haven't received a report from the Fund as required by the conclusion. The conclusion required an indication of the State Audit Office's report, of course the overall part, and not just the last part. That's the first one. Another incorrect allegation is, the gentleman argues that most of the irregularities were related to what does not apply to the Croatian Privatisation Fund. That's just not true. The Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund is established by the Croatian Fund in order to carry out privatisation operations and its activities include the management of state property. State property is also the one that did not enter the core capital, did not enter the draft on the assessment of the companies that went into privatisation. And since this is state property the Croatian Privatisation Fund was obliged to take care of it. As he took care of her, the auditor told us, the audit reports said, that out of 80 billion kuna worth of assets, it seems to me only 3 and a half billion were charged.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43501	Thank you. Attorney General Mladen Bajic. The report on the work of state lawyers on criminal cases in connection with conversion and privatisation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43502	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. In front of you is the report on the work of state attorneys on criminal cases in connection with conversion and privatisation, which we have established on the basis of your conclusion of 14 April 2004. To which state attorneys are obliged to submit a report on all procedures in place relating to the offences in conversion and privatisation. As the subject of conversion and privatisation is subject to study, monitoring by state lawyers, not only the basis of the conclusions of the Croatian Assembly and the basis of the findings of state audits or State audits, our report consists of two basic segments in which we tried to display two phases of our actions in these or similar cases. The first part of the Report deals with work and legal issues related to criminal applications and reports of the State Audit Office which we received during the time period from 2002 to the end of 2004. In particular, the State Office for Revision under the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation was obliged in all cases where it considers that there are basic doubts that a criminal offence has been committed in the conversion and privatisation of this report to the State's Attorney General and to file appropriate criminal charges. However, as the police, the State Attorney's Office and other state bodies have previously followed this issue of converting and privatising, in particular, illegality, in connection with this earlier, police have submitted a large number of criminal charges in the period from 91 to the end of 2002, and then also in a small number, which I will speak about later. So, the first part of the mission was to file a report on the work on... reports by the State Audit Office. Our report shows that since the application of the Revision Act, from May 2001 to September 2004, when we received the latest report, the revision covers a thousand 556 former social enterprises. In dealing with this, the State Audit submitted a total of 178 applications and reports to the State Attorney's Office, more specifically 71 criminal reports and 77 reports. Therefore, by comparing this with the total mass of the surveyed entities, i.e. companies, it is then that the State audit in 11.4% of the surveyed entities found that it would become the legality that would have been characterised by them or fundamental doubts about the existence of one of the crimes being prosecuted under official duty. More specifically, 71 criminal charges are actually 4,56% of all legal persons reviewed in which, according to the State Audit, there are elements and features of criminal offences. And that was primarily the subject of our study and consideration during this period of time, speaking exclusively of such reports. That number is even smaller, if we take care of it, as we have pointed out in our Report, that part of these criminal reports refers to actions after the conversion and privatisation carried out. Therefore, it does not apply only to those offences which were the subject of this study, or reports. Therefore, according to the State Attorney's Office and the State Audit, taking into account the reports and reports submitted over the past period, it is stressed that 178 applications and reports have been submitted. Or, to be exact, 71 criminal charges. What were those criminal charges about? We stressed in our report that they were primarily related to the sale of assets that did not enter the core capital of a legal person. 40% of all applications were for that. Converting baseless claims to 20% of applications. Irregular treatment in the social capital assessment 8%. Use discount when transferring unpaid shares 4.5%. Funding, lending, purchasing shares by the company's own 4%, acting contrary to the Securities Transport Act and the acquisition of stock companies 10%. And those remains that couldn't be classified into any of these observed categories. In the further part of our report, we process in particular or analyze different forms of illegal activities in the applications and reports of the State Audit Office, therefore, not the introduction and sale of assets, shares, share of things and rights in the value of the social capital of a legal person. These are the most numerous criminal charges that have been received from us, the qualifications and the state's attorney's office, and otherwise in the Penal Code, constitute fundamental offences of abuse in economic activity as referred to in Article 292. Penalty law. According to the findings of the State damage audit for the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the base amounts to DEM 484 million, why we put DEM in place to immediately explain it because it is so stated in the report of the state audit. The main problem in determining criminal liability in the case of the sale of assets that were not entered into the company’s core capital lies in the fact that the solutions of the fund which were given consent to the conversion of undertakings did not contain a list of assets entered into in social capital but only the total value of social capital and the number and nominal value of shares. This could have been derived and handled in different ways unlawfully, as included in the reports, or in some of our accusations. Furthermore, due to those shortcomings, i.e. inconsistencies and not lists, or those assets which were not entered were entered in books and property of real estate which did not enter into the underlying capital of certain companies in the conversion process. We had a whole series of disputes about it primarily civil-laws where we annuled these records and returned that property, remember first of all, these tourist and catering hotel houses however you like and any verdicts that were passed after a long struggle and by the Supreme Court in connection with the audit. The resolution of the consequences of these illegalities in cases where the existence of a basic suspicion of the initiation of a criminal offence could be established in a regular procedure before the competent courts, and therefore, on several occasions, the State Attorney's Office has given the initiative to the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which, otherwise, civil and administrative departments do not represent by law but only by power of attorney, so that the claims for the return of illegally acquired assets or benefits are remedied by such damages. Such initiatives have been given several times over the past few years. The second category that was particularly interesting for this report is the conversion of unfounded claims into shares contrary to Article 2. The law on the conversion of social enterprises. Such criminal reports or State audit reports were a total of 36 or 20% of the total number and of these materials, these reports also show that evidence of the existence of criminal offences was complex in these cases. In fact, some actions are controversial in relation to the determination of the intention to commit a criminal offence and in some cases the counter-laws have been involved in wider economic policy decisions. We didn't enter the policy area here to be able to conclude from this sentence because we later stated what this was about. What you all know is better than we do because there was a time when some of us were representatives in this House. We're talking about the silent recovery of banks. This is one thing that in itself is not ours, and according to the laws that regulated it and the decisions made at the time, it did not have enough elements to assess it as a criminal offence, but rather that such actions later came down to some kind of civil-government relationship or inability to determine what it was really meant to belong to and belonged to these banks. However, in several of these cases we went to criminal proceedings, one of these cases is a well-known subject that has filled the pillars of the Croatian public for years, which was the conversion of Free Dalmatia. In this case, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as the largest judicial body in the Republic of Croatia refused our investigative request to conduct only an investigation into the case and such a decision is final. However, we have wanted to confirm the correctness of the legal position in this regard to the protection of legality in that part, however, the decision has not yet been made. Why do I stress this subject especially as the so-called so-called subject is stressed in our report. The mezzanine loans because the courts, in relation to such illegal practices, took the view that it was not criminal acts, which, of course, was binding on us in a certain way in further action on similar or similar cases. These examples of the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia are part of the context and difficulties in which we act and illustrate the observations that the process of conversion and privatisation from a criminal-legal aspect is inadequately followed by the necessary regulations or that the conversion laws did not contain criminal provisions which would resolve the dilemmas of the distinction between them and their conversion into a criminal offence. You remember that last year we were just unable to bring a similar case to an end, although the facts that we claimed were proven in the court proceedings, but the court said that this was not a criminal offence also requested authentic interpretation from the Croatian Parliament and where you accepted in most of our arguments that we had made there. Under point c. we talked about the following category, which is also important, and that is illegal behaviour in assessing the value of social capital. Compared to this category, the damage is 945 million kuna, why the second methodology will be known by Mrs Krasic but we copy this data from her reports. The issue of criminal legal liability for misjudgement of the value of the property is also a very legal issue, since the entry of real estate in the land book is based on the provisions of Article 6(2). The Act of Conversion, based solely on the act of registration, i.e. enrolment in the court register and until then the right to use, was impossible to determine whether it was intentionally done for the purpose of obtaining... or whether it was merely a misreading of the rules. The transfer of unpaid shares acquired by small shareholders is a particular chapter for which the state audit, for which the illegality of the state audit has not submitted applications other than reports in which we have established that such illegalities exist and we have also prosecuted them. In this case as well as in the sale of assets that did not enter the core capital, the Croatian Privatisation Fund can, in a regular court procedure, resolve unpaid differences in the shares we also wrote about in the Privatisation Fund by warning them of these facts. Under point (f) of point (f) of point (f) of point (f) of the first subparagraph of point (f) of the first subparagraph of Article 8(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, crediting of the purchase of shares by the company itself is not covered by Article 8(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Law on the conversion of social enterprises and Article 2 The Privatization Act. 4% of all applications refer to exactly these types of illegality or crimes. In this way, the payment of shares made to small shareholders or to individual responsible persons who have used their position. In considering this problem from the point of view of the opportunists in view of the small amounts, which were ultimately to be returned by small shareholders to society, the question of the purpose of criminal proceedings is raised. This does not mean that we did not go to those larger amounts where the company's special management used these benefits and bought shares. In the case of those smaller shareholders or small shareholders who are usually concerned with workers and the smaller number of shares there, we decided on an opportunity and did not go into these proceedings. A total of 8 applications, 11 reports, or 10.7 total initiations were submitted to acquire and traffic shares contrary to the provisions of the Securities and Transport Act, as well as the Act on the acquisition of stock companies. The evidence of the crimes in this case was very simple because it was the actions related to the traffic of shares and in these cases we went to the charges where those verdicts were also made which were already in question and which you will certainly be talking about in the most part and mentioning the results of our actions in connection with the applications we received. Criminal acts by application and reports of the State Audit Office. In the next part of the table, we have tried to show what kind of criminal acts are being committed in order not to repeat and waste time now, but first of all, it is about abuses of powers and economic business as set out in Article 292 and further decisions we have made in connection with these criminal reports or reports. In the table display, the largest number is the rejection of criminal charges of 54.5%. Let me tell you, otherwise the standard standard average of rejection is 35%. So, here is a number of rejections of criminal charges rather than what is common and standard according to the number of criminal charges filed, but you have to keep in mind what we specifically stressed in the report, of course justifying ourselves that 48.5% of all rejections refer to an act of limitations before criminal charges are filed or reports delivered to the State's Attorney's Office. 18 or 10.1% are the charges, and this remains pending an investigation or reconnaissance. Therefore, nearly 40 percent of all these cases are still at the stage of the investigation or the conduct of reconnaissances in the largest part of the investigation phase. What had to be rejected has long been rejected. As regards our actions under these criminal charges in this report, we particularly wanted to stress that the difficulties in proving certain criminal offences and the diversity of legal interpretations of the rules. I mentioned earlier the question of interpreting the concept of social property and your help you gave us with an authentic interpretation last year, so I'm not repeating it. Condemning judgments, it is important to point out that some things may be explained or pointed to what is written here or what you have already read basically. On the occasion of these indictments in the cases of the State Audit Office, the courts delivered only four convictions, one for the criminal offence of the abuse of powers of business, a conditional conviction, 291 independent economic activity, and two fines for the criminal offence referred to in Article 104. The Securities Act. It's a transport of securities against the law. But wait, I'm going to have to draw your attention later on to some more details that are different, so you don't get these numbers out of context, or you're wrong to conclude even though it's basically not true. The actions taken by the State Attorney's Office on the basis of our powers were specifically tried to show that, in addition to all these applications that we received from the State Audit and Report that we ourselves were following the results of the work of the State Audit Office and the review logs, etc. Because, thanks to the consistency of the State Audit Office, we have obtained all these records on the review of certain entities, and we have drawn up 21 more criminal cases, which ended with six indictments and seven investigative proceedings. So this segment of our report refers to our work on the findings and work of the State Audit in relation to conversion and privatisation. However, in order to get a full picture of everything that has happened since 1991 and to this day in terms of conversion and privatisation unrelated to the tasks you have given to the State Audit and to all others involved in the protection of property, etc. and of public interest, I also wanted to give in our report a complete review of the conduct of the illegality recorded by other state bodies and therefore submitted appropriate criminal reports or reports. So from 1991 to today, a total of another thousand 48 applications have been filed, or more specifically, a thousand and 48 people have been reported. Most of the applications were filed by the police 61%, then the Financial Police 16.7%, citizens 2% and damaged companies 5%. The adoption of the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation on 8 May 2001 and the beginning of the work of the State Audit Office on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation is concerned by the submission of criminal charges by the police and other competent authorities, as the results of the work of the State Audit have been pending, so that only twenty of these criminal acts have been filed since then and to date beyond this system of work and the detection of criminal offences. Now, acting on these reports, therefore unrelated to those of the State Audit, we have in total accused 339 persons, 78 persons are convicted of these same crimes relating to conversion and privatisation. Ten unconditional prison sentences ranging from one to four and a half years were imposed. I'm talking about final judgments, so there's no misunderstanding. As well as in cases where the initiation of the procedure is required after the submissions by the State Office for Auditing data on the high participation of negative decisions, the fact and legal complexity of the cases in the field of conversion and privatisation are indicated. Given the often insufficiently clear regulation of the conversion and privatisation of some of the illegalities carried out, it could not be sanctioned in criminal proceedings, especially because the provisions of criminal material law relating to economic crime were taken over from the former Socialists and were therefore adapted to other relations in the economy. The district attorneys pointed out the poor quality of criminal charges, poorly instructed and not sufficiently justified without sufficient data and decision-making documents, which in a number of cases required previous processing, primarily through the regular authorities, which greatly extended the investigative phase of the procedure. The considerable difficulties were in obtaining the necessary documentation, especially by banks who rarely call for a regulation on banking secrets so that the circle here is constantly closed, unfortunately still. And finally to cut it short. Final considerations, in which we tried to sublime everything I now tried to highlight, would quickly present it to you. In cases where reports of the State Audit Office as well as those of earlier years have been received, there have been significant difficulties in proving the existence of criminal offences, as these are specific and complex cases of economic crime. With already known circumstances making it difficult for successful criminal-legal repression in cases of classical economic crime, non-compliance and non-determination made it possible for different interpretations and made it difficult to prove the intention to commit a crime. All these crimes are in principle committed crimes and therefore it is deliberately necessary to prove it before it goes into criminal proceedings. The circumstances which have affected so many irregularities in the process of conversion and privatisation referred to in the State Audit Office Report are the consequences of the lack of proper control of the entire process of conversion and privatisation, both by the executive bodies, the administrative supervision of the executive authority and the internal supervision of the body of the fund. The information that 71 applications and 107 reports have been submitted following a review of a thousand 556 subjects is not surprising because criminal liability exists only if it is found that there is a fundamental doubt that a criminal offence has been committed. It is necessary to point out once again that the assessment of the conversion and privatisation carried out should distinguish actions that make up the elements of the crime from other illegalities and other irregularities and immoral practices in particular. Data on the number of state-guarantee actions in the cases of the State Audit Office and previously received applications indicate that the extensive work of police and other state bodies and the State's Attorney's Office, although it is indeed the opposite view that the authorities, detection and prosecutions have done nothing about persecution. As pointed out in advance, a significant number of cases are under way before courts where state attorneys will also give the necessary importance and priority by estimating the severity and importance of the criminal offences they have committed. I stress another 40 percent of all cases are in court proceedings and, in my knowledge and observations, it is mostly more or less about the most serious criminal cases that have not been prosecuted. But still another detail. So, a total of 366 charges of criminal acts of conversion and privatisation and 85 convictions. Out of that, 10 unconditional prison sentences from one year to 4.5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43503	Thank you. Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank Cedo Maletic will submit an oral additional report by the Croatian National Bank in the process of establishing, i.e. transforming banks into limited liability companies or companies under the Law on Banks and other financial organisations for each bank individually and after changes in the ownership structure of these banks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43504	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the other ladies and gentlemen. In line with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of April of this year to draw up, it is presented with a report on the process of establishment To set up the microphone, do you hear better now? [[Come on, set your microphones up a little bit.]] In accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of April of this year to draw up and submit to him a report on the process of setting up, i.e. the transformation of banks into limited liability companies or companies under the Bank Act and other financial organisations in 1989, and for each bank individually and the report on changes in the ownership structure of these banks, the Croatian National Bank has completed its task. I will briefly present the basic indications of this report. So the report is structured into three main units, or three parts. The first part shows the source of data as well as some difficulties that we have faced in the collection of these data. In the second part, a legislative framework was given on the basis of which the process of transforming banks into limited liability companies or limited liability companies was carried out while the third part showed the very establishment, i.e. bank transformations, for each bank individually as well as changes in the ownership structure that was here during that period. As far as the data is concerned, the data sources themselves. So I would like to say here that the data for 1989 when the bank reform process under the previously quoted law was not available to the Croatian National Bank. Namely, at the time, the competent institution which issued the approval to work and controlled the whole process was the National Bank of Yugoslavia. So in order to fulfil the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian National Bank had to access the reconstruction of these data by dragging these data out of the court registers, even after that, some ex post checks and additional controls were carried out so that these data would be credible. As for the data for the 95th and 97th years there are data that the Croatian National Bank had in its archives and that is why they gave these data, so we have this gap between the years... for that year, while the data from the 99th year are here the Croatian National Bank collects the basis of legal authority and these data becomes a permanent series because there were no problems to provide these data on ownership structure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the legislative framework itself, i.e. the Law on Banks and other financial organisations, it should be said here that the very process of establishment, i.e. the recasting, entered on the basis of this Act adopted in early 1989. And under that law, this process of transformation into limited liability companies and companies should be completed by the end of 89. In this Law, there was an exhaustive way of establishing a relationship, the very process of reshaping banks by turning the shares into a founding fund, in the share of the share capital, i.e. the formation of a founding fund, obligations, rights and responsibilities of shareholders. Founder, then calling for the founding assembly and the rights and powers and the assembly and the use of the reserve and similar issues. This 89th Law was adopted in the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia by the Law on the acquisition of federal laws under the powers of finance in 1991 and was valid until 93rd when the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on Banks and Savings. As regards the very impact of this law and the effect of that law, 22 banks have passed the transformation process into a limited liability company. These are banks that were then operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which were based on the territory of Croatia. In addition, the 22 banks that passed the transformation process were still issued 23 approvals under the Law, i.e. 23 new banks were established. In total, we can say that according to this Law, the total number of banks operating in Croatia was approved. As for the third part and the data on individual banks, I don't think there's any point in commenting on them. At the beginning, I said under the premises and difficulties we faced, I think the data itself speaks for itself enough. And finally, I would just like to point out that the adoption and application of this Federal Law of 89 that, for the first time in the former SFRY, some of the institutions that were socially owned were nominated holder of ownership and that the shares in the founding funds were converted into shares, into limited liability companies or companies. But essentially, in the banks' very business, nothing happened. Although there was a holder of ownership, these owners were social enterprises. It was only by passing the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises from 91 that essentially there was a change in the ownership structure of banks because there was a change in their ownership structure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43505	Thank you very much. Introductional presentation on the coupon privatisation of Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. And before him, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Director of the State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Rehabilitation of Banks Vinko Radic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43506	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives, respected members, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is an extraordinary honor for me to give this House of High a few opening remarks regarding a report that is now on the agenda. So, on the basis of the Croatian Parliament's Conclusions of 13th session of 14 April 2005, the State Agency for Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks submitted its report on the implementation of bank recovery and restructuring under the 94th Act. There are a few facts that I'm going to present that we didn't highlight in the report that I think we can agree on because they're just like that. First, the process of rehabilitating and restructureing banks went beyond the legal framework under which the privatisation of companies was carried out. The banks were founded as we heard from Mr Maletic under the Bank Act, either from the former SFRY, or from, either under the Law of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Banks of the Republic of Croatia, while the rehabilitation and restructuring was made according to, or based on, the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, this process of rehabilitating and restructureing banks has changed the country's financial infrastructure to a good extent. Of course, the ownership structure of banks that are as we know it is too heavy for private property and ino-owned today. Thirdly, regardless of what the law has stopped to apply, at least formally, this process of rehabilitation and restructuring is practically still running today because we have at least one bank whose process of recovery and restructuring is not yet complete, and we have two remaining that we can tell the state banks for which we do not yet know whether they are awaiting the privatisation process. We know that it is the Croatian Bank and the Croatian Post Bank. Fourthly, I must mention that the fact that the Agency is having a lot of disputes with the foundations of this procedure is one of the great operations and problems in the Agency, and one of the cases that we have stated in this material is that they are also very significant and very significant financial consequences. And fifthly, I would like to mention that there is another process that has not been mentioned here, which ran parallelly practically with the process of resuscitating and restructureing banks. Which also has major financial consequences, or aspects, and this is about bank bankruptcy. And not only the bankruptcy of the banks, but all those societies that went into bankruptcy with them. That that's how I can only bring out two indicators. In the name of insurance savings, the agency has so far paid a little less than 4 billion kuna, and has closed out of bankruptcy banks, deliberately I do not need to collect 1.2 billion kuna. That's why 152 million kunas are in money. Where there is certain, and likely to continue to be different and probably diametrically conflicting opinions are questions about each individual bank regarding the process of the resolution and restructuring. In both financial and legal terms. And for legal purposes, we have more than enough cases for that. In order to answer that question, it is only possible for us to open up or create a legal framework and then explore that part. We've given a cut in our report to each individual bank, and we've given a few aggregate indicators. So we saw that, by the basis of this 1994 Law on the Renaissance and Restructuring of Banks and the basis of the Law on the State Agency, the Croatian Government, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, made a total of 6 decisions for the resolution and restructuring of 6 banks from 1995 to 2000. So Slavonska, Rijeka, Splitska, Privredna, Dubrovačka and Croatia Banka. When you look at the cost of recovery and restructuring from aggregate indicators with little addition, you can see that a total of over 13 billion has been spent in these processes so far. Why do I say it rough? Because it is very difficult to know the correct and final number because of the fact that more than one species have been financed from recovery and restructuring. On the other hand, around 6.5 billion revenues have been achieved from that title, hence the recovery and restructuring of banks. I have to mention here there's still about a little less than 9 billion nominal, nominal value of the portfolio in the Agency's portfolio. And I also have to mention that it's very difficult to say what the real value of that portfolio is for the reason that a lot of the entities have either already finished bankruptcy or the bankruptcy is ongoing. Since for each individual bank, we've cited a brief dynamic of privatisation, I don't think there's any need to waste time on that. We highlighted at the end of the material two issues that deserve some attention, which is the issue of Croatian banks and HYPO banks. The HYPO bank is about the example of those disputes and financial aspects for the work of the agency I was talking about, and the value of the disputes is currently around billions of kunas and perhaps more. I hope we don't lose them all. Regarding the Croatian Bank, I said that this process of rehabilitation and restructuring has indeed not really been completed, regardless of what may be formally said, and this has also led to disputes, i.e. actions by shareholders, former shareholders of the Croatian Bank, and this problem has not been resolved so far. No matter what the two judgments are, I must say the final judgments of the High Court of Commerce, but we were unable to execute them, but because the state invested 553 million in that bank, and sought protection with the Constitutional Court. We hope that the Constitutional Court ruling will help solve the problem as well. I apologize for a few lapus chalami in the material and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43507	Thank you very much. And Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Introduction report, coupon privatisation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43508	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You will allow me not to read to you any special material or to bear any additional material compared to what you already had on your assembly benches and what most of you have already discussed. So let me stick to the clean material that was an integral part of the State Audit Office's report and in which this High House discussed in mid-2002 on the basis of which discussions were made between the other and certain conclusions. As part of this report of the State Audit Office, a special chapter is dedicated to coupon privatisation. I have another material even though the component of that report is therefore the taste of this material. This is the material requested by the Croatian Privatisation Fund to be formed by the State Audit Office as part of the revision of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and to process the coupon privatisation process separately. What is the process of coupon privatisation? The process of purchasing privatisation was a noble purpose, for those who, according to certain, predetermined criteria, have the right to free share shares and share of companies in the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The law on coupon privatisation, and in particular the Regulation on coupon privatisation, sets out clear criteria which and what kind of companies can they be? Two basic criteria: companies must be profitable and companies must be solvable. We're talking about the year 1997. We're talking about the year 1998. We are talking about a time when unfortunately the Croatian Privatisation Fund did not have the right adequate and clear statistics or review of its portfolio. We're talking about the time in which they could and there have been some mistakes. A list of companies subject to coupon privatisation has been published. However, I must honestly say that not all the elements requested by the Law on Cup Privatisation have been published. First of all, this refers to the profitability of companies in '95. The year and number of employees who were in '95. A year. So, everything I'm saying again based on the State Audit Office report and I don't have any other materials, and I don't need any other materials. The whole process is designed in such a way that, according to predetermined criteria, each rightholder gets certain coupons with which he can then participate in three auctions, either on his own or in a way that hands over his coupons to management companies for the management of then established privatisation investment funds. Somewhere just over 92% of all rightholders in coupon privatisation, and there were about 230 thousand, somewhere around 92% of them decided to give their coupons to fund management, and something below 8% participated independently in the auction. The fact is, established by the State Audit Office, which is also confirmed by the Croatian Privatisation Fund reports, that unfortunately a good part of the companies offered in the purchasing privatisation did not meet those basic criteria, were not profitable or were not solvable. Of the total number of 478, although the data differed by plus, minus 2, 3 enterprises offered, so in the process of purchasing privatisation, 270 companies did not meet one of these criteria. The nominal value of these companies was around 3 billion and 500 million marks. The whole process is designed in a way that goes 3 auction circles and that in these 3 auction circles those investment funds that will have more successful management manage to develop a better portfolio. Once again, it is possible for each individual to participate in the auctioning process on his own. The auctioning process has been completed and the time of transfer from auctioned shares and shares in funds, investment funds should be followed. But then we come up with another new problem, and this new problem that arises is the problem that one part of the company, that is, one part of the portfolio that was defined and envisaged for the purchase privatisation, the Croatian Privatisation Fund simply doesn't have in its portfolio. This is the third problem with those two previously stated that one part of the company was not solvable and one part was not simply profitable. After the transfer or the definition of the right to transfer shares, the investment funds rebelled. They rebelled because the Law on coupon privatisation for them was intended and defined a much greater value than what was offered to them in the auctions at the end. Therefore, they asked for exchanges, i.e. the remuneration of shares. I must say that from the materials that you were presented with, on the basis of which you conducted the debate, but also from all the materials that I have read about in this regard, the Ministry of Privatisation at the time was aware that a good part of these companies did not agree with the Regulation, but gave clarifications to investment funds and individuals that they would be able to participate and open up the stock compensation process. The first exchange of shares occurred at the moment, we remember probably all the problems the viritative sugarcane entered, which was also, whose shares were also the subject of the coupon privatisation process. That's when the first step was taken, and it started in exchange for shares. Replacement of shares or share fees was a process that was not transparent enough, and I dare say in this House we did not, at that time, in the smartest, best possible way and designed it, nor presented it to the public, nor spent it. The exchange of shares was made in a way that the agreements on the remuneration of shares or the exchange of shares between the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the investment funds were signed by the President of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and its deputy rather than making the whole process much more transparent. This is also my opinion and the opinion of the State Audit Office, which should have published a list of shares that would possibly be replaced by shares that are not subject to the criteria and rules, the Regulation on coupon privatisation, should have made public that list of shares, should have defined the criteria by which the replacements would be carried out. But they didn't. The government then empowers the minister of privatisation and the president of the Privatisation Fund, which with each investment fund is contracted to replace shares. I must also be honest, and it says in your materials, that another mistake has been made here. They are not treated equally, they are not equal to the investment funds for the exchange of shares and individuals, 8%, slightly less than 8%, people who have decided to participate independently in the coupon privatisation did not get a chance to participate in the stock fee. However, contracts are concluded and the fact is irrefutable, I am going back to that once again, and in all reports you can read that a good part of the companies did not meet the pre-determined criteria. Agreements on the remuneration of shares have been signed. These contracts were to return investment funds to the Croatian Fund for Privatisation of shares of nominal value cca 780 million marks. During '98. and '99. the year of the replacement process, i.e. the value compensation lasted and somewhere around 500 million marks of value transfer was carried out. There are currently unimplemented contractual commitments between the PIFs and the PIFs of 280,290 million marks. We arrive in 2000, we all know the shift of power, and some new people are trying to get into that problem, analyze it, and bring the best possible solutions. At least that's what it looks like today or they want to show it. At that time, the opinion of the Privatisation Fund College is requested on what to do with unrealised share swap agreements. The opinion of the President of the Privatisation Fund is also required. A report from the State Audit Office shall be requested. And after all the documents that have been collected, and after all the models of possible solutions to the problem we have found ourselves in, it is concluded that the best way to try all legal means to challenge these stock swap agreements. I have to say that in the last few days or weeks I've given myself an extraordinary effort so I've tried to read all the records from the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, all the materials that are written about it, all the indications that are published in this regard. I must admit that in the materials, in the records of the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund of that time, I read some entirely other suggestions. The notes say that a college of the Privatisation Fund, that the president of the Privatisation Fund Mr. Vojkovic, that the legal sector of the Privatisation Fund suggests something else, a solution to disputes by peaceful means in a way that the existing contracts break up, but that they make a new one. At that point, I'm going to use that syntagm, fairer and fairer for the Privatisation Fund. However, in the view of the then legal sector of the Privatisation Fund, it was not done either, according to the College of the Privatisation Fund or according to the suggestions of the President of the Privatisation Fund, and on the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, they always discuss the subject only three to four people and decide on a long-term variant that has led us to debate today with a 7-8-year delay on the same issue which has multipled the problem and which has led to the cost of being unprepared for the peaceful resolution of these disputes, they have increased to more than 500 million kunas today. It went against the opinion of the legal sector, against the opinion of the colleges of the fund. Of course, this is an extremely difficult legal issue, so rightly, when a decision has already been made to try to resolve the situation in this way, the requested intervention of the state's attorney's office and the state's co-port in the process of resolving these disputes. The state's attorney's office I dare say that, and Mr. Bajic will not mind me, not too willingly, but he has agreed to represent the Privatisation Fund in these disputes and then decides something else, it is decided among other things to take another legal adviser to assist the state's attorney and Croatian Privatisation Fund in the process of resolving these disputes, in the process of representing the Croatian Privatisation Fund and also the state in disputes. It is an interesting discussion about which law society is also interesting to discuss how a law firm is chosen. The fact is that as it is said in the record, for suspicious reasons, for subjective reasons I apologize, there is no law firm from Zagreb can be taken but a law firm from Rijeka, Vukić, Krajačić and partners can be engaged, the correct name can be read to you later, and is moving into disputes. It moves into disputes not of course with the Croatian Privatisation Fund's wish. The Croatian Privatisation Fund, on the basis of its opinion, dares to tell the chairman of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund at the time, does not agree to peaceful dispute resolution, does not accept suggestions or the legal sector of the fund or the college of the fund, or the board of directors of the Fund, if you will, or perhaps not the opinions of the state audit, the Office of State Audit, and we will come to that as well. It's going to cancel the contract, so those contracts that aren't consummated and they're going into a dispute. The contracts say in case the dispute arises for disputes is the relevant arbitration council of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Why was that put in? He could have stood any court, decided to arbitration. We can judge arbitration today anyway, but let me once again point out how arbitration judges are elected. So when the PIFs started, the privatisation investment funds launched arbitration, they launched them, and then the arbitration council must be defined. It's defined in a way, and let the lawyers confirm me or deny me that I'm wrong, that each party proposes one arbitration panel and the third party has to agree and we're moving into that fight and we're getting three arbitration disputes in that fight, and we're losing three arbitration disputes. We've lost disputes with Walidus, with Dom Holding and Esenholding. We've lost very difficult disputes and, of course, since we've already decided on a legal battle, we shouldn't give up on it. We're looking at a commercial court to annul the arbitration decisions. Those processes take time. However, I am going back to the minutes of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund and the materials signed by the then president of the Fund Mr. Vojkovic and sent to the chairman of the Management Board Mr. Linic, in which he states: Yes, it is one of the possible routes, but it also carries great risks. One of the risks is the failure to implement the decision and these contracts can happen to us that the funds press charges against the state for lost profits, which can have major consequences for the Privatisation Fund, for the state and lead to new high costs. That's what happened. The funds joined together, five privatisations out of seven participating in the coupon privatisation, pressing charges at the municipal court. The lawsuit is hard for a lost profit is a heavy 530 million kuna without interest. Today she's the one with interest somewhere on a billion and 230, 240 million kuna if I'm not mistaken. The chairman of the trust management board was warned about that. He's moving into a legal battle. We lost one lawsuit in a trade court, the other one goes on. We've filed a complaint at the High Commercial Court for annulment and are requesting an annulment of the decision of the trade court. In the meantime, SN-holding is seeking and receiving a solution to the Croatian Privatisation Fund's account. Interests are growing. After that, we lift up, of course, we want to undo that performance, fight it. Following is the account of the Privatisation Fund. The privatisation fund is blocked, the privatisation fund can't function properly. The salaries of employees must be paid through the companies of their daughters and so on. The opinion has been asked, the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund asks for the opinion and clarity of the Privatisation Fund's colleges on how we stand in disputes and how it is best to finish the story of coupon privatisation and disputes with investment funds. Damir Ostovic, as a representative of the Fund's college, sends a report on it and suggests resolving disputes peacefully. The Management Board of the Fund discusses this, takes into account all this context, all possible history of these events. Consider, too, how we stand in certain disputes. The Management Board of the Privatisation Fund makes a decision and proposes to the government that all disputes be settled peacefully. Before it is addressed, such a proposal to the government, in the government's procedure, is required to demonstrate the state's attorney's office. The State's Attorney's Office is proposing to support the settlement of disputes peacefully, in the same way to all. Why would I mention that? I note that until that moment, for the first time in this moment, this problem is trying to solve it in a transparent manner and clearly. The government has decided to settle disputes with investment funds peacefully. And then comes the proposal for a settlement agreement with Essen Holding and Dom Holding. It is quite certain that their interest was for the shares of Liburnia, but it is quite certain that according to the information we had at the time. I would like to point out once again, the information we've had in our disputes is not very good. That the suggestion and the legal sector, and in some way the State's Attorney's Office, that we are not well in disputes and at that point, based on this information, negotiations are being launched and trying to find a way to end the history of 8, 9 years old, what, 7. The agreement was reached, i.e. the draft agreement was reached and the fact was that the agreement was under way, however it could not be implemented. It could not be implemented because there is no privatisation fund in its portfolio at that time of the Liburnia stock or at that time, and on the other hand, the account's performance takes place. Therefore, at the 11th month, the Management Board of the Fund shall draw one conclusion which, for these reasons, puts the agreement out of force. I've said it many times, we can comment on it anyway. I, as a representative of the Fund's Management Board, who gets involved in the whole story in the third month, was not familiar with the fact and Mr Ostovic did not tell me that an agreement of the 9th month was put out of force. However, regardless of what was put out of force in January this year, we are getting a notice from the trade court that we have lost the plea for the annulment of the justice with Dom Holding. And not only that, we get a solution by which we are obliged to enforce the acquis of the arbitration council of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce within 8 days. Unless the Croatian Privatisation Fund implements the acquis within 8 days, the penalty will follow in the penalty of 100 thousand kuna per day after 8 days. Since the subject of the "Liburnia" law firm is, therefore, Dom Holding was required to receive 72 thousand shares of Liburnia under that stock docking contract, which is about 24 and a half percent. But on that point, there are also shares of other companies that the Privatisation Fund doesn't have at the moment. And the solution of the trade court says you're welcome to implement the acquis within 8 days. It is logical to restart the talks and demand a model of how the word will be implemented. And it's done. In the 3rd month, a notice comes from the State's Attorney's Office that, according to that complaint, the PIFs are suing the state of Croatia for lost profits, that the judge of the municipal court has requested an expert on the amount of damage. I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a lawyer, I'm a lawyer, I listen to lawyers, I listen to lawyers tell me and how they comment on that fact. All these were further arguments to launch a new round of talks, negotiations and to try to find a solution. And the negotiations are under way. One reason why an agreement with Dom Holding and Essen Holding or that 9-month agreement could not be implemented before is the fact, as I said, that we had no shares of Liburnia at that time. It was held by a capital fund and therefore had to be replaced by a capital fund. And the exchange of shares with the capital fund was made in the 4th month. On the one hand, a decision was taken on the one hand to carry out a replacement that lasted through the 4th and 5th months. In the 5th month, we put it on government, we put it on economic coordination, it goes through the government procedure, and in the 8th month at no phone session, I listened to you today, I guess you mentioned the phone session 10 times, no decision was made at any phone session to give consent to that agreement. At a regular session of the Government of 4.8, therefore, a decision was made to give consent to the agreement. And then there's a fact that's irrefutable. That an 11-month agreement was put out of force. The one who denied me that fact, the one who should have informed me about it was the president of the college of the Privatisation Fund. And it was done with a major procedural error. And we've done everything to put out of force the agreement, that's what we've done. As we do today, and we are on a good path, and regardless of all the comments that today, tomorrow, perhaps the day after tomorrow, will appear in this House, I assure you that we will once again become the owners of Liburnia shares. I also assure you that one, one problem that we did not cause, which is unfortunately a noble idea and an inadequate legal framework for the implementation of this noble idea, but which is multiplied by the inability to solve it, we will solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43509	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, if I'm not mistaken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43510	Three articles of our Rules of Procedure have been injured, including Articles 127, 177 and 203. Article 203 states that the agenda is established at the beginning of the session and that it may be completed during the session. We don't have a report on coupon privatisation in the agenda or what's been completed. We have now received an oral presentation of Mr. Vice-President, but our Rules of Procedure say that in Article 177 that other acts of the Assembly must, according to the nature of the acts, contain an explanation, we do not have such arguments in writing. Article 127 says that the President of the Parliament will then return such an act to work. In fact, we discussed coupon privatisation in the first report that the review gave me in 2002, most of the representatives do not have this report, the Fund's showing is quite something else that it gave in February 2002, because it refers to contracts signed in arbitration by the former president of Mr. Krkac's fund and therefore found arbitration rather than court proceedings. It would be good if we got a written report on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43511	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation is you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, simply, the Deputy Prime Minister is contradictory, so he incorrectly claims that the board of directors and the government worked transparently. Here's why. Right behind that, he said he didn't know what he said, he wasn't told by the director that consent was withdrawn. At the same time, his predecessor at the head of the management fund and the Deputy Prime Minister must have informed the government that consent to the settlement had been withdrawn. This transparency was best declared by the other side of the settlement, so she said she wanted to return to the original state of the settlement but that the government paid her 700 million kuna more than she made with the deal. That's the transparency. God forbid he goes back to the Liburni Hotel Riviera Fund and there is no harm to the government, or to us citizens in this process or to compensate for it in someone else's. Oh, God, let it be that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43513	Thank you. I owe it to the esteemed representative Zgrebec that President Zgrebec gave the agenda what you mentioned, no one had any objection to agreeing with the honourable representative Ivanis. And no one had any objections, with that actually being put on the agenda. If you feel that I have injured the Rules of Procedure, you may request the opinion of the committee responsible. Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Economy, finance, justice? I don't know, I haven't seen either of them, neither have I, nor here's the technical service they haven't seen, I can't give you now, I've watched you very carefully up there that you've been moving something with your hand, but I'm sure I'm sure you haven't picked up an injury to the Rules of Procedure and is out of the question. Injury of the Rules of Procedure while speaking to the esteemed representative Leko. What? On my explanation? Here you go. Here's your esteemed representative, Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've been thinking from the beginning of this point on what point I'm going to give a breach of the Rules of Procedure because it's evident that we're discussing two things today that have no business conditions. It is a coupon privatisation explained by Mrs Dragica Zgrebec and that is a point called the proposal for a debate on the execution of the Croatian Parliament's conclusions since 29 May 2002. No matter what it is on the agenda, 100 times a point is included in the agenda and then subsequently give the materials. I remind you of Article 177. Rules of Procedure and Article 127 Rules of Procedure, Article 177. The Rules of Procedure of Rule 2 says "the process of adopting other acts regardless of whether they are adopted under the procedure for the draft law or the final draft law is always being initiated by the draft act". The following paragraph is added: "The applicant for the act referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall submit a proposal to the President of the Assembly according to the nature of the act the same must contain an explanation". And Article 127. "If the President of the Parliament finds that the proposed act is submitted to the Parliament, i.e. a breakdown of the report and other acts is not drawn up in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, he will ask the Proposer to act in accordance with the proposal within a certain period, and to harmonise the proposal for an act with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure." I see that the Vice-President of the Parliament, if you would allow me a little extension, has already asked the representatives of the working bodies if they want to speak without any of the Government explaining the conclusions, the point of execution of the Croatian Parliament's conclusion goes away on May 29th. Em, we don't have any materials other than what the Croatian Parliament brought on April 14th no materials or arguments, no reason or anything, so there's no oral explanation yet, I really don't think this point is simply being discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43515	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. The government proposed that the Croatian Parliament discuss the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on 29 May 2002, adopted with a report on the work on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation and the report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out. So, these conclusions of the Croatian Parliament are the basis for the debate and that is the proposal of the Government that we adopted and that we have involved in this item of the agenda. Secondly, as regards the proposal for a discussion on coupon privatisation, the proponent of the entry of that item into the agenda, the respected representative Ivanis agreed with me and you all accepted that the basis for this debate should be the special separate from the report of the State Office for the Review of Coupon Privatisation. So we have everything we need to discuss. The coupon, the coupon, this privatisation is in the report on the work on the revision of conversion and privatisation, and under the chapter Review of Conversion and Privatisation has a chapter Separat Cup privatisation and this is the basis for discussion. Given your objection that I have to do with hurting the Rules of Procedure, I hold that this is not the case I will refer it to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to give their opinion. Now please proceed with the debate. Representative Nikola Ivanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43516	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I think since in the last 15 minutes at least three times the name is mentioned neither guilty nor due, I think it's time I got two minutes to say it. First of all, I'd like to say one thing. On August 18th, I made a request to place the coupon privatisation on the Parliament's agenda for the whole crowd that rose primarily in the Primorje-Gorski County and spread around the Liburnia Riviera of the Hotel. A good thirty days after that, that request went to the government, and at the beginning of this session of the Parliament, I asked what was wrong with it. I was told that the government would send the material. You asked today at the beginning of this session whether sufficient working material went to Mr. Tomcic on 6 May 2002, that is, whether a copy of the coupon privatisation is sufficient, which is probably available to all representatives of the Parliament for this debate. You asked that in public in this assembly. I said, as a proposer, that I think so, but no one answered either. I of course have this material because I requested it at the Croatian Parliament Documentation Centre and with today's date I got it. However, I would not like to be the foundation which the Croatian public will say that a proper and high-quality debate has not been carried out in the coupon privatisation. I don't want to because I think today what is said about this coupon privatisation is enough and clear enough that this debate needs to be discussed. Whoever wants to avoid the debate and for what reasons I don't want to go in and I'm going to participate in it myself, but the fact that some councillors and others are asking the question of how this has now come on the agenda I want to say that it's not in any relationship with me, it's not onion or onion. The 2002 State Audit Report is sufficient for this debate. It is obvious that by looking at the context in which it has now come into debate, it is considered not enough and that it needed another supplemental material to look back at the Liburni Riviera hotels. Let it be agreed and adopted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, it is certainly only one thing and it is obvious that the August 18th request is very well established because it seems to me that no one is very happy to engage in a debate about the entire coupon privatisation and that it is avoided and I am glad that at least it has been seen for the last ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43517	Thank you very much. I agree. The government has no other materials. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, President Dragutin Pukleš, would you like to further explain? No, I don't. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The Justice Committee? I'm opening a debate. The audit, the Honorable Vice President, did not file any reports. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The state's chief auditor and hers. There are no conclusions for the review, no colleagues, Vice President. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look closely.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43518	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43519	No, Your Honor, no. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43520	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government and all the gentlemen of the Government and Government institutions, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! 4th of February 2005 in this hall we were faced with the final Report of the State Office. What kind of a party is that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43521	I don't know, I'm really interested. What was that sound? Some unarticulated sound of unarticulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43522	So, on 4 February 2005, we were faced in this Chamber and we were looking at the final report of the State Audit Office on September 2004, which, I recall only in a few lines, found that a thousand 556 audited companies reduced the basic capital by 4 billion marks, that 345 companies, that 345 companies went bankrupt, that 996 companies did not achieve the development objectives of the programme, that it was hidden, of course under quotes, one billion basic capital marks, that 386 thousand 675 people were out of work, that correctly in accordance with the law, conversion and privatisation in 4,82% of cases and that 95.18% of cases were illegal. On the same day, ladies and gentlemen, we were also faced with the consternation and boastful opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who literally said "we have received notice of the State Audit Office Report" without a word of comment, without suggestion, without suggestion, without a single word of what we should do with this report, "we have received knowledge". We reached conclusions on April 14, 2005. The truths of will were slightly mutilated in relation to some proposals, but well, they were brought in as they could have been brought in as a matter of some consensus here in the Parliament. And today here's exactly a year after the State Audit Office submitted a report in September 2004 we're considering these additional reports and the required indications are ahead of us. Some just nominally, in fact, in my court did not meet the demand. On 4 February, I asked on behalf of the club how to go along with all the findings with all these horrifying facts about the results of conversion and privatisation, better said to the defects, how to leave the convulsion of conversion and privatisation, to get society out of the obviously greatest moral and ethical reach, and not to be burdened by another ten, fifteen, twenty or thirty years. So now, we have this question of how it exists today. It also exists because of the fact that we expected the most explicit answers from the Croatian Privatisation Fund we did not get answers from. I'll explain it later. But because of the state's attorneyship, I'm reading it, we've got confirmation of the full impotence of the system, a judicial system that isn't able to even when institutions are designated illegal and criminal, which is not able for various reasons to sanction the report. So let me explain why I don't think the Croatian Privatisation Fund has done the job. The Croatian Privatisation Fund has had three tasks, to be shown on the State Audit Office Report on the audit carried out, secondly to submit a report on the actions launched and taken, not to read all of this. And third, give data on cash payments for the purchase of shares and shares. As for the first point and their obligation to show. It is very interesting that the Croatian Fund begins the story in fact that they also regularly read the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the State Attorney's Office and the State Audit Office about the previous reports of the State Audit Office. So we didn't ask that, we asked that we be shown the Croatian Privatisation Fund. In fact, their entire story regarding point 1 was brought down to the seventh report, therefore, to only one very short period, i.e. 287 societies. This House has unequivocally requested an indication of the State Audit Office's report on the revision of conversion and privatisation carried out. So all 1556 companies, not 28. In that part, I keep it simple that this kind of statistics that is below is present to highlight that in fact the entire series of findings of the State Audit Office have no direct connection with the Croatian Privatisation Fund and its competences, so we are interpreted as to what it is in conversion, which in the privatisation that I am not going back to that story. I believe that the Croatian Privatisation Fund has simply failed fully to respond to its first obligation and that this House simply has to give it the task to give the full report and the demonstration as soon as possible. The whole audit process, not just 287 companies. Of course, when the Croatian Privatisation Fund is shown to be guilty, where it is not guilty, etc., I ask a public question and who will control this phenomenon. Should we now look again for the State Audit Office's indication or someone else to tell us that the Croatian Privatisation Fund is when it amnests itself in 80% of the cases. As for the second part of their report, the report on the procedures launched, it is very detailed, I think that in detail about each enterprise simply makes no sense, most often this report concludes that the procedures are ongoing and should be hoped for... and some instructions from the state's attorney's office that certain legal procedures may also make compensation for all that has been done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, from some of these cases it is actually read that the whole process of conversion and privatisation... , as much as he was burdened with volunteering, discretionary rights, non-compliance with decisions, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I'll just mention some. Says August Shenoa d.d. Zagreb., the valorisation commission has no signature on the document as if it were along the way. She suggested accepting an offer from that and that gentleman because it was more favourable. However, the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund has made a decision to accept another offer, I deliberately do not read the names because there is no simple point. And to no one else, the story's over. What's that? I just don't understand it. Yes, but the finding that the Croatian Privatisation Fund has also been making major mistakes. There are, say, fragrant situations what our new bosses dared to do, dared to do. For example, in a construction company, it was simply found that they did not include bonds in the amount of 100 million dinars in social capital and did not convert them into a share of the benefits of the Republic of Croatia. The procedure is ongoing. As the procedure is under way to seek compensation from companies that, please, have quite dared to hide 955 apartments. Not less or less, therefore, they did not put them in the management of the city housing company, but they did not put them in the core capital, but simply as unaccounted for in the underlying capital and did not hand them over to anyone for management. Please have a nice 955 apartments. Yeah, that's what happened in this country. It doesn't make sense to analyze these individual cases but these two cases I wanted to illustrate in fact which circus we were experiencing that was still unpunished, because in these cases proceedings are ongoing, which we were experiencing in the course of conversion and privatisation. As regards the third part of the obligation to report on cash payments for the purchase of shares in the privatisation process, and in cases where the Privatisation Fund gave consent to the pawnage, asset and company or the acquisition of credits bought by shares in the share of the same undertaking. I didn't expect a report like this that's no less than three-quarters of a page. Dry statistics, the number of company pieces, the number of years, is in kunas and euros, the truth of the will is a fracking amount that is almost 550 thousand, 550 million, forgive the euro, so a billion and 100 million marks, but simply without any remorse to say in which companies it happened, who it was doing, who it was against, who the proceedings were being conducted, etc. Instead, it notes that the payments for sales shares and shares are made at the expense of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and that the fund was not obliged to establish the sources of cash payment funds for the use of credit funds and the like. No one is guilty, apparently according to this report by the Croatian Privatisation Fund and no one is guilty of the Office, the State Audit Office has made it very clear that no less than 95,185 cases of conversion and privatisation are illegal. A little more light in this story introduces a report on the work of the state's attorney's office on criminal cases in connection with conversion and privatisation. I'm going to avoid this report, I'm going to try to avoid repetitions, it's pointed out, however, the biggest problems of conversion and privatisation, the indeterminateness of the law, of course there was an indetermination of the law, there was a law inconsistencies, but there's probably some responsibility for that, too. I guess there was some kind of government of the Republic of Croatia at the time, I guess there was some law firm in the Government of the Republic of Croatia for this harmonisation of the Law, I guess there was some law enforcement office in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I guess these laws and this Parliament were discussed, too, but apparently, there is a law inconclusion, a law inconsistencies. What's very interesting, I'll come back to that later, possible political aspects, so the economic political aspects are a very interesting topic, something the chief state attorney Bajic was talking about. This report on several occasions speaks very explicitly about where the Croatian Privatisation Fund was wrong. There is no simple, there is nothing to comment on because it is written that it was done contrary to a particular article, a certain law. But this report by the State's Attorney's Office shows something very clear that the relationship between the State's Attorney's Office, the Privatisation Fund, so if you want the State Audit Office, then the whole complex that had the ambition to untangle all the marifets in the privatisation that the relationship with the courts is actually a key problem. That the State Attorney's Office has one legal position, that the Supreme Court refutes this legal position, that on the basis of the Supreme Court's decision then, of course, it applies the practice that then the State's Attorney's Office simply raises its hands from certain cases. It's just gonna have to be, uh, it's gonna have to be found, I'm holding that this debate isn't gonna be over tonight. There will have to be some way that, regardless of the independence of the judiciary in order to avoid being told in this house that the judiciary is rotten or what we've heard, we simply have to face the fact that even the percentage of cases when a criminal report is filed that simply our courts are not able to, uh, process it. Well, my people, when it's said to someone that it's about 178 cases 4, this, 4 cases or 1023, 18 or 19, I think the public is laughing at us all together. And that actually the public simply says, "So what, what are you talking about? Stop talking about it because you simply agreed to punish the two, the three, and the rest actually go out of date, remain unpunished and so on." It is very significant that some things are under way, in the course of this process, being repaired. Non-indulgence and sale of assets, shares, shares and so on. Here it says, "The damage of 484 million German marks." We'll trust that information, but what's the consequence? As a consequence, those lists did not contain a list of assets entered into in social capital. And since there was no clear thing about that list that then certain properties, buildings, land and so on could have been removed. That's a later, clear thing, taken care of. Turning baseless claims into shares. I don't think that's the simplest thing about how in the end Mr. State's attorney wanted to present to us today that it's some kind of doubt that doesn't give us enough elements for criminal prosecution. I dare Mr. State's Attorney to say it was a clean robbery in favour of later privatized banks. Revalorize the paid-out loans paid-backs. Go re-revalorize them and call the banks a little bit you call it a quiet or bitter privatisation, the recovery of banks, call it what you want is the most common robbery in favor of banks. This says 355 million German marks. I've been listening to data from two and a half to three billion marks for the entire banking system. And the most interesting thing is the finding. The abuses occurred in claims that were valorised even though they were fully paid and not run in the company balance sheet either, or they were, or they were, one-off, unrealistic revaluations. The processes took place more than 10 years ago as a model in which they participated in the rule of the bank mostly hotel companies and the consent was given by the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Transfer of outstanding shares. He says: It was about shareholders who acquired shares by transfer, by buying shares from shareholders, and so on. Contrary to Article 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning The Privatization Act. Give us the list. Who are your clients? Who were these clients who used and who apparently bought shares that way, that's how they got rich? The same story is in this last item: financing, lending, buying shares by the company itself. That's nice of you to write here. What the workers bought no one, but it was mostly bought by gentlemen my dear managers. So let's hear who they are once, who are these managers? Since the time for such extensive matter is too short, allow only a few sentences. I will not say anything about the process of setting up and reshaping banks, although I expected the process of setting up to be covered. I can't see the jokes, the governor's jokes here. Not only these banks from 1989, but all that were later founded in Croatia. However, as regards the State Agency's report on the provision of savings when it is read in detail, it is well seen that Croatia paid 5 billion kuna plus probably 4 billion kuna for, for the payment of the secured savings of banks in bankruptcy plus who knows how many billion kunas for what could be included in the cost of recovery that it writes nicely here in terms of turning citizens' foreign deposits into public debt in Croatia and so on. I just wanted to point out that we did act very masochistically in the recovery and privatisation of the banking system. As for the concrete proposals on behalf of the Club, I'm going to use the right to report back to the debate for five minutes if it's not after midnight tonight. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43523	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I spoke this morning. Well, I can't talk the same night as this morning. The difference is, it's a time difference. Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43524	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, the esteemed Mr. Representatives. Here's the thing. Perhaps the two most significant statements in my court by the archbishop of Zagreb, Monsignor Bozanić, are the one which was recently said to be Croats and Slovenians, which I purposely mention. And when the decomposition of this community was due to the fact that it was a sin of structure. And indeed structures have designed one of the most monstrous forms of moving social capital into private and through these institutes of conversion and privatisation. Only conversion and privatisation as an idea are probably not controversial. To sell what the state was unable to run on its own. It's something else. First. What happened in the war and as my friend Kramaric would say in that parish: "one bullet, another property". Second, what only the chosen ones could participate in. A team with HDZ and former socialist directors who suddenly became the owners of shipyards and shipping companies and so on. Third. When we talk about the sin of the structure that the State Review is the policy of our immediate judiciary and so forth until 1990, depending on the policy, and today it is hard on large capital. Because everything in the field of conversion and privatisation has been legalized in the last few years. Fourth. It is no longer clear that this conversion can be fought because if you question the ownership structure you will also question economics. You will destroy the company, as well as the media that are also transformed today depend clearly on that capital, and the most complex example showed us this "Sokol Maric" when Stankovic said on his show on Sunday: "Yes, gentlemen, you write about me because I can't pay you 10 or 20 million kuna for commercials. But you don't pay about, you don't write about those who pay you that money." And clearly as long as I can figure out a privatized newspaper house that works that way, and it works that way. These are their incomes for wages, contributions and so on. I can't understand that this is how some big state-owned media companies behave. It's also hard to tell the truth that not only did HDZ acquire businesses, businesses. They may be the poorest, this Kutle, Gucic, and some others who were directors by 1990. Who may have the largest companies today, including peoples who have some PIFs, etc. The truth is that this debate that's being conducted in these reports, according to my deep conviction, doesn't make any sense, is that in this country, I said that this morning, you're going to be responsible for five thousand kunas, but for 500 million kuna, you won't, and the truth is that our judiciary is dependent on capital, I didn't say in the morning corrupt that I was to be corrected, but let the citizens conclude themselves. In 15 years, we have two convictions, two paroles and two fines. E it was difficult for them to pay these two fines or Mr. Bajic would say, and I am not taking it out of context as he said, but in the report, he added that there is probably 21 criminal investigations, that police have filed a thousand 41 applications, that we now have 10 prison sentences. Okay, 10 prison sentences. Now we all know who could have become a judge, a state attorney, a chief auditor, and so on, they've been put up by politics. In the name of that policy, the principle of Judge Vukovic was implemented in the 1990s that war could not commit war crimes, and many are now in office. I'm going to say one more time, we have two fines per report and two parolees. So that's about reviewing, converting and privatizing. Fifth, a further revision of conversion when the relative age occurs after 10 years, and since the conversion it has been 13, i.e. 14 or 15 years, if we keep this Markovic law in mind? What's with the effort? When we read the Croatian Privatisation Fund's report, and Mr Tomcic noticed well, everything is relativizing. That's why I won't comment on them, but I'll comment on the other two reports. First of all, the State's Attorney's Office, or the Deposit Insurance Agency. It's shorter than the Savings Agency, so I'll go from him. How much did it cost to resuscitate the banking system? 11 billion 498 million kuna on this data. It actually cost 25 billion kuna. Today I heard 13 billion kuna, but that 11 billion 498 million kuna refers to 6 Croatian banks, meaning Slavonska, Splitska, Privredna, Dubrovačka and Croatia Banka. How much did Croatia receive by transferring to foreigners of financial sovereignty? 4 billion 935 million kuna. The truth is, they're still recapitalising those banks with a billion kunas of 152 million. It is fortunate that there is no mention of Istria, but there we have fought against the Kutla and the Croatian National Bank. But it's something else that's interesting. How did those banks go? By way of bonds issued by the State of 5 billion 771 million kuna issued on 10, i.e. For 15 years, which will say that we paid or paid foreigners for taking over the renovated Croatian banks and that is certainly the biggest privatisation sin. Why? Because we lost financial sovereignty. In this country we have sold meanings to foreign banks, after that, let's at least not end up in bankruptcy, that's good, people don't need to worry about their savings, but that's why external debt is alarming, 82, 83% of gross social product and today, instead of bringing capital into Croatia through our own or their own, however, banks are pulling that capital into the European Union, so it turns out that we are building the European Union with our accumulation. We sold them to tycoons, excuse me, we gave them factories, hotels, tobacco industry, shipping companies, small-time farmers, stock defenders, so they'd give them to PIFs, which is what PIFs take over hotel houses, tenants in social housing for the value of a bathtub or boiler we sold apartments, now the state sells business spaces. However, only one category of Croatian citizens, and these are craftsmen of the so-called urban or municipal business premises cannot buy those premises and those guaranteed tenants. It's not fair, but they're being tripled by principledity and rigor. Thanks to these banks today, Croatia's external debt is $32.33 billion. Slovenia, let's say, $14 billion. So the banks were sold for 4.9 billion kuna. Their profits, meaning the profits of these sold six banks, let the Zagreb Bank go aside, and it was sold, were certainly 2 billion kunas last year, not counting, as I said, to neatly cash government bonds with which to be a cynic of the state de facto pays to foreigners what the banks gave them. Now, that's nowhere to be found. So, the Uni credito de facto bought or took over this Bank of Commerce for no more than billions of kuna, although it mentions 3.3 billion kuna. It's an interesting report from the State's Attorney's Office. Six are a group, they say, illegal stores. The first is the sale of assets that did not enter the underlying capital. Too bad, they say 484 million marks. Okay, what's that? It is mostly, in my court, tourist land that has not entered the core capital of the transformed tourist houses. IDS in Istria, directly across Croatia, prevented the book from Istria tourists, I don't know, Anita, Jadran tourists, Rivieras, Blue lagoons etc.. But what's going on today? That the hotel houses of one Umag across Savudria, across Opatija to Dubrovnik below use hundreds of acres of so-called. campes, tourist land and pay no one anything. Now, can you imagine, for example. For one Coversad, a Blue Lagoon, a camp in Green Lagoon, no one pays anyone anything. It's nowhere to be found. If that's how it has to be, then it's nice for some state to conduct a national lottery and a random election, I don't know in the country there's 50, 70 camps, share 50, 70 lucky people. The second year of new happiness, etc., and if they always suck their tits, the people would say. Secondly, turning newly established claims into shares. There's a damage of 455.9 million marks. What's that? That's when the hotel house directors agreed to take over the hotel based on the revolving and previously paid loans. In one way, it was the bank's recovery, but in another way, these same directors kept their salaries, so they were their seats, and hotels were, for example, hotels. taken over Privredna, Rijeka, Zagreb, etc. banks that were privatised in the meantime and foreigners also acquired Croatian property through these banks de facto. And what can our courts do today? Nothing, I can just keep my mouth shut. That's the point, it doesn't matter this Free Dalmatia that's mentioned in this report, it's mentioned because of the Kutla, because it's a metaphor of conversion. This is exactly what matters. Why are we talking about him? Because he can hang, and those who sold banks or water banks or bought banks clearly that nothing could happen to them. And that speaks of the selectivity of the Croatian judiciary or better, that it is reserved only for some. It's interesting to say that this report definitely beats the management loans. I've talked a lot about it in the case of Lance. There are then wrong estimates of some 250 million marks, transfer of outstanding shares acquired by discount to small shareholders. Now that's a special kind of story, not to say crime is possible only in Croatia. A small shareholder pays off his stock to this day after the nomination, and a large one, which confirms the crime in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, to go out to meet a new assessment, which is not normal, so in this place we come to this coupon privatisation which is the World Bank's "note" project, which has ruined all countries, I mean the coupon privatisation, which they have listened to, from Slovakia to Croatia. So only someone who isn't normal can do that. There's now a matter of Liburnia, agreeing to replace the PIF shares, bad for the good ones, and these small shareholders don't. And that, I'm sorry, is something that is incomprehensible. The PIFs, they're not concerned with the report, but this report by Mr. Vice-President of the Government is extremely useful, it needs to be seen specifically about all these details, but it's interesting next. Let's let Count Eltz and Ostora go now. The second place was the PIF Expandi, with 597 million marks in force. They're e.g. sold the Arena tourist and 60 other companies. Mr. Vice President said that coupon privatisation is a noble intention. Okay. PIF Expansion 597 million kuna, sold, got away, fled to the Czech Republic, or America. Tudjman's grandson, Mr. Dejan Kosutić, had in this noble intention a central national fund weighing 430 million marks, and in 2000 he sold it to Count Eltza, meaning staked in 197 companies. The Slavonian Privatisation Fund weighs 423 million marks, etc., is being run by Hypo Bank today. The Cacics of Varazdin they bought part of the hotel and the banks, they were if I wasn't wrong in the seventh or sixth place, it was then the Plekler Fund, seventh in power, weighing 233 million marks. There was also a failed... savings room from Pula and maybe those people might be looking for some compensation. At Liburnia, which compromises the government, except that the business was closed in three days, at a session of the government on the eighth month, when there is no dog in Zagreb, meaning from 4.8 to 8.8th was due to this arbitrary agreement between the Government, i.e. The Croatian Privatisation Fund and Mrs Ostoja and Eltz in a way that the price has been destroyed by 407 million kuna, but in a special debate. Let's leave this discussion to coupon privatisation. With Liburnia, I absolutely support the government today, after this great privatisation has been prevented, a small privatisation is under way. In ten years it has been sold for 41.4 million euros 43 or 44 facilities with the full consent of the Supervisory Board in which both Mr Ostoj and Mrs Mesec were sitting, it is interesting that someone from the Croatian Privatisation Fund goes to the fund, so they should be absolutely disbanded. So they're doing the same job for each other, but they're sitting in unions. Otherwise, the small privatisations that are under way today, the hotel villa by hotel, should be prevented, as they benefit only from administrations and individuals weigh several million euros, so you can see that the camp in Moscenica Draga 2.5 thousand square meters is sold for 12.5 thousand euros. Which the State's Attorney's Office now makes the PIFs of the Government, i.e. They do not withdraw from the budget those billions and 200 million kunas that Mr Polancec spoke of, or return those shares to the fund. He said there's a big chance and we'll absolutely support him in it. Since the revision, conversion will be nothing. The capital today has taken over the institutions of this state and I will say it has become dangerous. Politics today is marginalized, marginalized, especially representative authority us here in the Parliament. It is powerful in the media, in Croatian broadcasting, in capital, in the executive power from the government and down to the municipalities and therefore such battle for places I do not know in councils or headships from Velika Gorica to Dubrovnik, Opatija etc. What's the term of office worth? Nothing, but in Ina, in Croatia insurance, Croatian radio television, Croatian roads are worth millions of kunas as well as in cities and municipalities if their budget is representative of 20, 50 or 150 million kuna and we need to understand that. Conversion and these 400 jobs, 400 thousand destroyed jobs. Yes, and the conversion has affected this, although war, occupation, etc., three-thirds of Croatia was first. The second place was the loss of market in the east of purchasing power, and clearly then here comes conversion, a third, a third, a third, a third. And for the end. I will once again quote that Royce, who pitted the pit, who has, who doesn't have it hard that something in this division of power won't know the capital of something. The judiciary and once again I will say, it depends largely on capital as well as media and politics, but definitely power is no more than it was in the '90s when politics decided on the death and life of politicians but it moved towards the media, or capital. This report shows that the revision has failed, the transformation has compromised the country, but since things can no longer be restored to the beginning, you are leading the gentlemen of the government to make sure that new conversions do not take place in the face of scandals such as "Liburnia". The most tragic part of my court is the division that occurred in the '90s to those who have and those who will never have, those who have this problem, something they had in the '90s, which they had nothing until the '90s, so they gained everything overnight, and these others, unfortunately, will hardly come into a position, but will always be dependent on that capital. A tragedy which today clearly cannot be corrected by my judgment because it did not want to be corrected. And you finally can't touch those big systems today. Who is able to touch in this country in one Agrokor or TDR? One Agrokor who employs 15 or 17 thousand people and these other three or four thousand people. Well, the state guaranteed them, Agrokoru, if I'm not mistaken, in 2000 for about 250 million euros or dollars. So for the end, it's red. A sin of structure can't be corrected, but it doesn't need to continue with such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43525	Your colleague Cain isn't red yet. ... I mean, he saw wrongly that it was red. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43526	Dear Mr. President, senior government officials, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Although the debate has taken place in a slightly more casual tone and water, I must conclude a sad fact. In the whole day's debate, there was more politicisation than privatisation. They cannot be taken from the impression that the whole topic was imposed not to correct irregularities that were evident, not to punish the culprits that were evident but to retaliate the subject of privatisation in the first place to tell the citizens of Croatia, the Croatian Democratic Community has robbed this country, it is guilty of crime in conversion, it is a party that has abolished hundreds of thousands of jobs and, ultimately, not by the Hague court but by the court of a gentleman of MPs, declared a criminal organisation. So this party, which is a criminal organisation, created a Croatian state, under its leadership was created. Well, I get the impression that something doesn't go together. I'm afraid it's not going together because we're all aware of the bad side of privatisation, but nobody goes to the core of things. No one asks where the roots of all that has happened and whether the Croatian Democratic Community, which after 1990 was the creator of all the robberies, was the destroyer of jobs, was the destroyer of the Croatian economy. As long as we are here, we are constantly forced to look back, when we are forced to throw away a gearbox and walk backwards, we will just have a little bit of pressure on the gas, and we will go a little further back since the 90th, because the robbery of Croatia did not start in 1990. Someone really cares about showing how the robbery started in the '90s. Who? That reminds me of that folk "it's not snowing to cover the hill but to cover someone's tracks." So whose tracks need these insinuations unfounded on historical facts to cover up? So here is the question, who robbed Croatia, noting that we, as the party's leading party at the time, of course recognise our share. And we're the only party to rule out all the participants of all the privatisation irregularities. The other parties haven't done it yet, they're just waiting for it. So when we analyse who and when the robbery of Croatia started, then we should certainly wonder why many political victories were won on the privatisation. For example, the country's honored president, Mr Mesic, said that when he became president he would return the stolen billions from abroad. We've been waiting for five years. Six, excuse me, six, yes. And we'll wait another five years and there won't be any. Why? Because these billions didn't go abroad after 1990. If they had left, they would have easily returned them to me because today a trail of money is being followed slowly in international waters. Why do you have to go above, after 90? So here is the Croatian public, not only the 2% of which, according to the Croatian Television Directorate's statement, sees the transmissions of this Assembly that some are fighting for, but also for the other 98% who will hear, I hope, these figures through our journalists. We need to reach out to the numbers. The numbers say everything, and thank God the statistical yearbooks are in the archives and anyone can reach them. I always like numbers instead of demagogy because the numbers are intoxicable. You push them under the water, she swims out. You plant it under the carpet, she comes out eventually. So let's look at what the statistical yearbooks say for the period from 80 to 90, so to the end of the communist rule. What does it say about the legacy of the economy that we found in 1990? These statistical yearbooks remind us that the losses of businesses in the then Republic of Croatia were 5 and a half times the total accumulation. What does that mean translated? This means that practically these companies have been injured in the last few years of that decade before 1990. Furthermore, year-olds say the total expenditures of businesses grew 17 and a half percent faster than income. It's the kind of company we inherited. 17 and a half percent faster than the income, which means that in 8 years, every company has been serviced, and we've moved with such companies into privatisation. Inexorable figures say inflation at the end of 1990 was 609.5%. They also say inflation rates have reached 30% in some months. In such conditions, we started privatization. Which means such inflation we remember. We went to buy bread in the morning because it was too expensive for our salaries at night. In the morning, we bought shoes for the kid, and in the evening, those shoelaces cost more than shoes in the morning. The salary we got on 1st, 15th was no longer worth 60% of what we got. Under these conditions, a large robbery of Croatia began. In 1990 alone, over 400 bankruptcys were launched. It's a picture of the state of the economy that we inherited in 1990. It's a condition that this so-called criminal organization has come to. 400 bankruptcies a year are not a total figure because local authorities at that time, and it is also recorded, did not allow all businesses to go bankrupt because they fictitiously kept employees. But let's move on. In 1990, the total investment in the then Republic of Croatia was 50% less than 10 years earlier, 1980. So the investments dropped by 50% in 10 years. Then what was the value of these inherited companies? The following tragic data, in 50% of companies, according to statistical indicators, were higher than the total assets of these companies. So every other company had more debt than its total value. It was the beginning of our privatisation. At the end of 1990, 200 thousand people were unemployed. Actually, 196,000 and something. It's a big socialist job. So, in the quiet time of 1990. 196,000 unemployed. But another 400,000 employees fictitiously. Why fictitious? Because they received salaries exclusively on the basis of new company duties. So actually, unemployment was actually 600,000 people at the time. This fictitious employment, these 400, further dragged these companies into the glib because every 1st month they raised inflation money, some not money but those known bonds when we were carrying, remember the bonds, we barely carried them in our hands and traded them for money, so different bonds, stamps, etc. It was a time of great imagination to invent parallel money to that dinar. In 20 industrial branches, and the industry was the foundation of the Croatian economy, wages were below the then republican average. If we add that in the 1990s we have found between $6 billion and $7 billion in debt that falls to the Republic of Croatia at the time and today and which we pay, then we ask the question of what it is about the robbery of Croatia. Based on this data, I claim that the robbery of the Croatian economy ended in 1990, not the beginning. These figures say that every other attack on HDZ is about the robbery of politicization to cover up these own tracks. And that's why it's snowing. To cover the tracks, not cover the hill. These are the numbers. Whoever wants to check them out, I've got them all in the original. What happened in the 1990s when we inherited the economy I described briefly? A year earlier, the conversion and privatisation of Markovic's model began. According to one model he was assigned, they saw society moving, politics in Europe. The task was to sit on the directorial functions, so the communist directors, and to get into something new if this happens again, and thank God it happened. A similar model had communist countries. Let's just remember the Soviet Union. Who did the biggest privatisation there? Intelligence. Each company had one intelligence officer who controlled everything and was the most involved in all economic and monetary flows of the company. He was most capable of it and took over the company when the alliance of the socialist states fell apart. So, the conversion started 90 years ago. What were they pretending to do? They've turned these non-equity companies into even more liquid. They were turning inflation into hyperinflation. Or at the very least, they were turning economic tragedy into an economic disaster. It comes in 90th, first free elections and such an economy is inherited by the Croatian Democratic Community. So what's next? There is a Serb aggression that has destroyed all infrastructure. And road, and economic, and cultural, and social, etc. Then there's the aggression that destroyed cca 30 billion dollars in that economy. To this catastrophic state and that. We got the apple that rotted. When we bit her, we saw that she was also wormy, and now they're asking us why she didn't have any vitamins. She was sucked out by worms before that, and that's the truth about Croatia's robbery. What happened when the Serbian aggression began, let's remember, the decline in the social product of gross-national income by 50% in the year 1991, 92. For 505 gross national income has not fallen in any of the European countries of 2. World War I. When gross national income falls by 50%, they say it only takes 50 years to get back to the beginning. That was the condition we found, and that's the robbery that we and our party started. Of course, we had to go to privatisation, why? Because Europe was inevitably going to privatise, and the fact that we were under war, maybe it was a reason not to go to postpone it, night and night the government was arguing, I had the honor of being a member of the war governments, we had to discuss whether to go to privatisation, we had to go because everyone else went forward, all the other transition countries. And then we went into this privatisation, unfortunately without a legal basis, because we had no experience and no time to sink into it at all, who was in the war government knows that we had meetings in the basements, under grenades, under air alerts and there we discussed what, no matter how much privatisation we had in mind, how to save from the aggressors of the Croatian state, how to save tens of thousands of lives, and we discussed how to take care of hundreds of thousands to millions of refugees and exiles. We discussed how to get the money to start arming the Croatian Army because we were under the arms supply embargo, which means we paid each rifle three times as much. And on that I call them basement sessions, because in the upper city and Zagreb basements they had meetings of the government. There was a debate about privatisation, it was something far away from us. We kept the heads of our inhabitants first, kept the land from this aggression, tried to organize a defense. And that should be said, and part of the money of that privatisation went into arms and thank those who gave it to them, and having taken something from themselves let the judiciary solve them rather than politics. There are those who laugh there because this sounds to them of course like a science fiction because they weren't in those basements, which is understandable, they were somewhere far deeper than the basement. So it's under the red five-pointer in the early '90s, I don't understand what you're saying to me? Then don't while I'm talking, I was polite when you were talking. Under the red five-point, the remains of that economy that we inherited from the red dictatorship of proletariats have been destroyed, and that is where the Croatian robbery begins according to the allegations of some who either do not have these data or are forgetful or have evil political goals and aspirations. And now that privatisation has gone as it went, today the results of this revision that was carried out in 1556 companies are very high-quality, the results of the work of the State's Attorney's Office which was very high-quality, are also complemented by the results of the Privatisation Fund. Some criticise that the data is unobstructed. We only have 4,56% criminal charges, why? Not because the criminal organization has been reporting, but because the package of laws has been so complex, from ownership relations, from property relations, from property registration and beyond, that today our top experts say it is impossible to distinguish evil from good, that it is impossible to distinguish an immoral act from a crime and that is why so few criminal charges are so few. I hope there will be more in the future, because as we have heard the revision and the processing will continue. But there's one more thing to say here, it's not the revision of the transformation that started in 2000, but a lot more review was done before 2000, because it hurt us all what was happening, it hurt us that some abused war, a difficult situation, and some pits say. They made more guarantees by the 90s than they did after the 90s, but for the conviction, it's both. So I would like to remind you that since 1991, we have been going to a similar then possible audit and we filed applications against 1048 of which 41, 401 have been dropped, remain in the process. In fact, in 91 C.E., and let's remember 1993, when we took a break for a little while, so that we could turn more to the problem of privatisation. I had the honour here for this pay phone in this honorable House to present the HDZ's proposal to ban management loans, we banned it from the coalition at the time. I then set an example of a managerial loan, and I think it's a much bigger problem precisely in managerial loans than in everything that followed, one then high-ranking state official who raised the managerial loan to a million marks of the same time, a huge amount of money at the time. As he lifted it, he raised it from a bank that had not yet been privatized, so it had its own arbitrary criteria and declared it a manager, it was the first step. What he was the manager of, what he managed, he knew how to manage his refrigerator in the kitchen, it was his greatest reach until then. Although he was a politician high-ranking. For the deposit of a thousand marks of old foreign exchange savings and for the guarantee of his garage he received a million marks. We have proposed the abolition of management loans and at the same session of the Parliament we have proposed the adoption of the Code of Honor for all officials precisely because of the privatisation of the team's leadership that should have brought this to a single opposition politician, the code has never been passed. Why? We need to see the party's tracks to date, and we can talk about the details. But all of this we see in the reports is measured by hundreds of millions of euros or marks, damages, nobody knows where they say 940 million marks, somewhere more, and somewhere they list billions. However, when compared to the damage caused in Croatia between 2000 and 2004, then the damage far exceeds all this, because the damage to the privatisation of Croatian telecommunications with such a monofilament contract for 3 years, the arbitrary price hike without competition is worth several billion. Too bad INA, where 25% of the property is sold over 50% of the management, we will only feel it when the product does not become the peripheral trading house of this part of Europe. Not to mention the Rijeka banks, Victor Lenc, Excelsior, 30 million marks we gave to the rescue because the Montenegrins broke it with cannons and a million marks were laid off. Furthermore, the budget deficit of 7 billion kuna that we have compensated, and the greatest damage to all the damages of the Savudria Vala gift infinite, immeasurable. These are sins that are political. Our sins are as political as we cared for the state at the same time, created that state, died for every inch, then came the government that gives away square kilometers. That's why I'd like to conclude now. Please let us move forward, don't make us look back, let this Parliament discuss the future of this beautiful country, leave the past here to our services, we have them here proved to be professional and to know what they're doing. And leave the future to us. But the shame of the past exists, let us leave it to those who destroyed the state and not to those who created it. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43527	SDP representative club respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43528	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, banks, offices, I don't know how to greet you all, colleagues and colleagues! A little while ago, my colleague Hebrang ended up with us turning forward, let's not look behind us. However, we are not the ones who put this topic on the agenda today and there is a reason why today's topic here in the Assembly is in debate and I will discuss it a little later during the debate on behalf of the SDP Club. So this is by who knows which times the discussion of the revision and the results of the revision of conversion and privatisation. We're probably doing something important here every time, that we're going to change something. However, citizens certainly feel that we are ineffective in this regard and that we are wasting both time and money in vain. It's hard for those who used to have a good job and now they've been out of work for ten years and live on social aid or benefits from the Employment Service to explain why no one's been sanctioned for illegal activities in conversion and privatisation. Why is their director now a new tycoon and they're poor? It is difficult for gentlemen to explain to those who went off to war that some in the wind in the meantime have become rich and left behind locked and ruined companies. Instead of working, the warriors went back to the stock market. Even though they were protecting our homes and lives, we missed them protecting them from them until then invisible enemies, thieves and crime in conversion and privatisation. They are also asking the same question today, and it is therefore necessary to give them a clear message today. All these years, there was not enough political will and support in this House to bring solutions that would be dealt with with by the fraud in privatisation. For ten years, HDZ has not accepted a debate on the conversion and the need for revision as well as the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation. The heads of the people of the Privatisation Fund and the Ministry of Privatisation did not provide for the control that was then provided by the law or acted on the findings of the State Audit which was now best seen in the example of coupon privatisation. It was only after the coalition came to power in 2001 that the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation was passed in the House and thus one of the pre-election promises of the SDP that we gave to the citizens was fulfilled. Through the audit we also received official confirmation of what the workers had said loudly for years while privileged individuals got rich a small man ended up on the street and social aid. We also received confirmation that businesses and jobs were being destroyed so that attractive land could be sold. According to the Final Report of the State Audit in the process of conversion and privatisation lost as indirectly as nearly 400 thousand jobs. Of all the persons reported under suspicion of being illegally privatised, only four have been convicted by two parole and two fines. Of course, to be fair, we should say that there are other applications, but there are also extremely small figures. So, here it was issued on the basis of police reports and other state bodies of natural and legal persons, so 40% of the convictions were acquittal and nine people were sentenced to unconditional prison sentences. Therefore, all together, my dear colleagues and colleagues, nothing has been done to sanction thieving in privatization. How to explain to citizens after these figures that crime is not worth it. The honest ones stayed on the road and the ones broken with a fat fox in their pocket. Individuals truly under police force somewhere on a stranger abroad but it certainly is not a comfort to hundreds of thousands of workers who have lost their future. The State Attorney's Office's report confirms that there has been a complete lack of sanctioning of such a harmful policy, and I do not think this report by the State's Attorney's Office shows that the state's apparatus's impotence, stumbling or banking secrets or any other obstacles, and unfortunately for all this, nothing has been done to sanction immorality and illegal actions in conversion and privatisation. Unfortunately, the consequences of this privatisation and the lack of sanctions have led to the destruction of not only jobs but also something that may be even worse, and this is the growing apathy of the population, general infidelity in the rule of law, intolerance to politicians and politicians, and ultimately to the loss of faith in justice and justice in this country. None of us in the SDP are seeking excuses for the lack of proper sanctions for thieves, but the coalition government during the period of work of the State Audit struggled with the negative effects of privatisation and the inherited situation that seemed this way. Very high liquidity, insolvency, 420 thousand unemployed, 30,000 blocked companies, a negative growth rate, 150 thousand employees without regular salaries, bankruptcys and liquidations of companies that only existed fictitiously. After the first State Audit Report, which confirmed illegal and immoral actions in the process, the coalition government amends the Penal Code by extending outdated deadlines and introducing new crimes in the area of economic crime that were deleted in 1996. This information also speaks enough of the damaging share of the then majority in the Parliament that has passed such amendments to the Penal Code. And now some of these same people are being represented as the greatest advocates of review and justice. Another amendment to the Penal Code followed, with more severe penalties and extended acts of economic crime. The law was brought down by HDZ in the Constitutional Court because of an unqualified majority that had been passed by the law. However, if we remember the debates held in this House, then it is clear that the real reason was not in the unqualified majority but in the fact that the law was too harsh in sanctions for economic crime and did not correspond exactly to those who destroyed it. It was the first attempt to repair the gaps in the laws through which 400 thousand human fates leaked. But it couldn't have gone either. How are we going to stop the disappointed voters from saying, "He who stole that one wrote the laws"? The coalition government has also proposed a single property tax law acquired in a privatisation process that cannot be proved by the way it is acquired. At that moment, the law in the House was supported only by the SDP Club and the Libre Club, no one else. Today it's been heard here on several occasions if we can't prosecute these people, if we can't sanction them more criminally because, some things retroactively can't be done because of the Constitution, because of many other things we can tax them, we can pay back one part of the money. All those here today who said this before noon forget that they raised their hand against this law not once but twice. So such a law was one of the attempts that if those sanctions were missing, we would at least take some of the money from those who illegally acquired it and destroyed the economy. We gave the law the second time in July last year. Unfortunately, he didn't get a majority in this House that time either. Any initiative to sanction thieving has fallen precisely in this House and not always, due to the absence of HDZ support, interests in privatisation have obviously outgrown party divisions. We changed the laws, opened some processes, but it wasn't enough. Unfortunately, he ruled out great opportunism from the investigative authorities to the courts. All of this proves a small number of procedures, a large number of statutes, and a small number of convictions. And that's why we, in the coalition, have been punished in part by the loss of the 2003 elections because we haven't met the high expectations of our voters that we'll put the thieves in the privatisation where they belong. HDZ is responsible for creating a political environment that has enabled a negative course of conversion and privatisation. But less today may matter to us what happened in the past but what is happening today. Today's privatisation is the continuation of the 90s HDZ's politically-oriented privatisation process. Even recently, we were led by the same people who ran the privatisation in the '90s. If there hadn't been a decomposition in HDZ, they'd probably be looking at the other burdens of a major robbery, today's prominent citizens who've been doing everything by law. It doesn't matter that the laws were immoral. Today, the privatisation processes are rerun by the same interested individuals or groups as by 2000, and the government is the only one under public pressure who is determined to give up most of the jobs and competitions. The adverse consequences of such decisions for the economy and the entrepreneurship climate should not be spoken of even though it should be because it seems to the government that this is completely irrelevant. The topic of revision, conversion and privatisation is open in the Parliament the moment the Liburni affair is open and that is the real reason why we are discussing this today. Just two months ago this same government, the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader's final report by the State Audit Office followed a conclusion that reads, the report is accepted and nothing more. So much for caring for correcting injustices in conversion and privatisation. With full rights, the citizens decided to raise their voice against the non-transparent surrender of Liburni, the hotel to the profiteers... privatisations... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To the deer, the ones who made third-time money on the backs of exiles and war victims. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It wasn't enough that they lost everything in the aggression, then jobs in privatisation, but they also cheated on them three times by getting them to sell donated shares at ten times lower prices. And you get the same... They condemn us to the MPs, to write about how the exiles unfortunately oversold the shares too soon and who put them up to it by the bags of these same funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be just as good, Deputy Prime Minister Polancec, to decide what the real truth was when you said here earlier that it was not true that you made the decision to sell the hotel in Liberia at a telephone session. In fact, you said you brought it to the government's 4.8 session, unfortunately there is no point at that session on the agenda. So either it's a secret part of the session, and it's said again, so something is brought back, without the public, and you're here talking about the necessary transparency that the last government didn't have. So where is this transparency here, because so 4. The government's 8th agenda was not a point, so either you decided to sell a company that was highly profitable or it was some kind of secret decision. And in the end, I'd just like to say one more thing. In the SDP, we are not satisfied with what has been done so far in sanctioning illegal and immoral activities in privatisation. But we need to repeat once again that all attempts by the coalition government have been stopped here in the Parliament. So let us not offer people an illusion because there is no political will here today to get rid of anything. If a solution is proposed to correct injustices, return at least part of jobs, guarantee a transparent continuation of privatisation, you will have support at the SDP Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43529	My colleagues and colleagues, according to the Rules of Procedure, have expired time to apply for the debate after 10 minutes. And now we're moving on to correcting incorrect allegations. First of all, a respected colleague of the Jarnjak. Here you go, buddy Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43530	Dear colleague Opacic said nothing was done about sanctioning those who committed illegal acts in privatisation. As interior minister for about 6 years, approximately 700 to 800 criminal charges have been filed against those who have committed crimes in privatisation. And secondly, he says that a coalition attempt to resolve and try to solve these privatisation problems has all failed here in the Parliament. You as a coalition government had a majority here in the Parliament and no one could bring down the majority of you, you could have passed whatever law you wanted, as you could have gathered enough people and enough hands to double-change the Constitution in a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43531	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43532	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed colleague has said that HDZ is guilty of immoral privatisation and that all attempts have failed here in the Croatian Parliament to correct it. Well, that's incorrect because a respected colleague forgot it was May 29, 2002. The Croatian Parliament has concluded that within 60 days the Croatian Parliament is proposing amendments, additions and new laws necessary to sanction crime committed in the conversion, privatisation and protection of the economic and other public interests of the Republic of Croatia in connection with conversion and privatisation. For the perpetrators of illegal actions during the privatisation process to be fairly and legally processed and sanctioned, to determine the origin of the money that privatization was made and sanctioned illegal acquisition and, unfortunately, it was not done and in some other things for which I have also reached the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament with 80 votes and some of the votes were passed certain laws for which the then coalition government had a majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43533	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected colleague Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43534	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the government and the audit and other agencies that are here, colleagues and colleagues. Introducing just a few notes on behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS. First, why is this debate going on? Well, of course, the debate is being held a) because the conclusions have been made to discuss these considerations a b) because it is deciding to open negotiations, open negotiations with Croatia on entry into the European Union, and that is why, before it is decided, it is trying to carry out this debate in order to somehow give the impression that we have done this job in terms of irregularities and illegality in conversion and privatisation. That was one of the demands and that's one of the important reasons. On the other hand, the debate is also being held against an explicit agreement at the Parliament's presidency that today's session will begin with a debate on this package of reports. Contrary to our agreement, and of course to any logic. Because it is obviously logical and only consistent to draw conclusions, arguments for or against amendments and additions to the law from the debate on these documents. Instead, before we discussed the arguments that should possibly extend the validity of the law for a year, we made that decision, or at the very least, that debate and then discuss the documents in which there may be arguments for such a decision, that is to say, such a proposal that has been made here. Why was that done? Well, obviously it was done regardless of what was said here so this debate wouldn't be conducted in front of TV cameras. It is the prerogative of every parliamentary majority. This parliamentary majority is playing around a lot and trying to set this up so that this issue is not discussed in front of the cameras. But well, I mean, when you have a parliamentary majority, it seems that you can and do not respect the decisions of the Presidency of the Parliament that have been explicitly made. I just don't think it's bad that we're clear about what this is all about. The second note, and I will probably return to the debate on this if there is time, concerns the debate of fellow Hebrang on behalf of the HDZ Club. When a man listens to his argument in the first place, he feels that everyone was born in 1990. And before that, let's say that at least so many party secretaries, there are other officials in your ranks as well as on the other side. I personally know some people I look at here because they've been where I work and I've worked. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, I don't. I wasn't, but I don't consider it my privilege or my lack. It was simply then my autonomous decision that had something to do with something that shouldn't be entered, but in my opinion with something that was, it was my common sense then, but I'm not saying that it was, it should be applied to everything. But to claim that all arguments that Croatia had been robbed by 1990 are certainly yes, but that HDZ would be exculpatory for that. Well, I think it's as responsible as anyone else in this House because it's more or less evenly distributed. So to open that topic as if it were something that, which you didn't have a relationship with until 1990, was at least absurd, and I think it's clear to everyone. On the other hand, this debate would allow us to conclude that no matter what people think, no matter what they experience on their backs, regardless of the fact that they lost their jobs. Even though they know who stole the companies and factories in their place, in their village, in their town where they live, where they worked that it wasn't really true and that none of it happened and that they were better off than they were even though they weren't aware of it. So from such positions, starting with such positions, I must say that I have growing understanding that you wanted to remove television cameras from that debate. Now let's see what these documents are about to give us for discussion. Although I find the debate largely expedient since the conclusion of the law has already been discussed and the order is inappropriate. The documents we are discussing are an indication of the Croatian Privatisation Fund on the State Audit Report, a report on the work of state lawyers on criminal cases relating to the conversion and privatisation, a report on the process of setting up or transforming banks into a stock company or d.o.o. A report by the State Agency on the security of savings deposits and the government's conclusions on which I will say something in particular, the government's conclusions of May 2002. This is also later added to the coupon privatisation, which I will hold back as long as I can since my colleague Ivanis, on behalf of the Club, will say something about it. Now, the Croatian Privatisation Fund's obvious. In many ways, we can actually repeat all the statistics that have already been said here. My colleague Tomcic used to tell them at first, but what I think may have been the most dangerous, long-term consequence of creating a political and mental climate in Croatian society is that from this kind of privatisation, from what was happening and from the fact that it was this consensus that I'm going to talk about here in Croatia, and this is seen here from the debate, as well as from the debate of fellow Hebrang, who says: "We discussed in the nights whether or not we should go to privatisation," creates the impression that there is a free market, that at least some rough idea of not tampering the state into the economy, protecting private ownership, private initiative that it is something that is more or less bad and that they made us to get into it, and something that is at least suspicious, and most often criminal. This is the most dangerous of all, and this attempt to disqualify the idea of a free market and to throw the state out of business ownership, to throw the state out of intervention into the economy as much as possible. Disqualifying such behavior is, for us, the way we view it, absolutely the most dangerous. And from that point of view, it's also important to distinguish between what crime is, and what is free markets and what is ousting the state from the economy that goes gradually, but of course it's the only possible goal? Now, and, from this case of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's obvious, I think it's hard to get any other impression, because first of all, it's not responsible for the Parliament's request, as my predecessors have said, that I'm not getting into it because it wasn't all cases but only those cases from the end of 2003 to the 9th month 2004. It was found that there were irregularities in the transformation process into 97 companies. Of these 287 irregularities in the privatisation process in 51 societies according to what can be read. The company's obvious is neither clear nor consequential. So in what way does the Fund manifest itself about individual companies is unconsequential without any conclusions on what the Fund is doing in that case? Who's responsible for that? Because that's actually what we're most interested in here. And in what way will the Fund be placed there? So the obvious about, the Croatian Privatisation Fund on the find of the State Audit and about these companies except for the incomplete number of companies is and completely unusable for what the Parliament has asked for and for what we need as a country, and that is to see what we are going to do in all these huge numbers of cases that have been shown in other reports in which they have disappeared in various ways of huge amounts of property and money and property of this state? This cannot be read, nor does the Fund take any responsibility or any task to set it up. The banks that were rescheduled mostly all the affairs were followed. Different amounts appear from 11, 13 billion spent on resuscitation and restructuring of banks. Why? Whose money? How did that happen? Banks rehabilitated. What kind of, say, is the value of disputes at this time with the HYPO bank we're told here is the circus 1 billion. We're hoping to make that billion. How? Why? How did that happen? What are the consequences for those who led us to this situation. Of these reports, it's absolutely clear from that point of view then of course, but it has the same characteristics as this other one, which is that it tells us the data we know, but it tells us in a much more systematic and clear way than anyone else, is the State's Attorney's report, and maybe it's the paradigm of the problem we have and the one we're facing here. The State's Attorney's Office report in that country in which, as we heard, nothing was all robbed, etc., and yet there were all these billions that disappeared, as shown from the privatisation data, the bank's recovery, as shown in the State Audit report. Now, the State's Attorney's Office's report said roughly: "The basis of all formal documents, hence, individual requirements and special decisions has been revised by a thousand 558 companies.". Based on the law passed during the coalition government, the State's audit was given the task of also reporting, the sooner it had not, the sooner it reported those cases where it was found or where it considered that there were elements of the criminal offence, so that it submitted applications, the thousands of 556 cases were audited, 178 reports and reports filed, 71 reports, 107 reports. Of which, for various reasons, 18 processed and 4 convictions. So, out of all of this between 400 and 500 thousand jobs that have gone missing and between the famous companies for which even this thought could be remembered if the talks here were discussed, lost from the face of the country, changed the owners in strange ways, turned from big to small, etc., out of all that were revised a thousand 556, reported and reported 178, processed 18 and two conditionally, two cash. It can't be people. It can't be. Even what Mr. Bajic said in his presentation, whoever did this has done well and systematically, and it may be against you, even what Mr. Bajic said, which is that other institutions, not the State Audit, have submitted a thousand 48, I think, applications. Based on this report, there are nine more people, with the four, still nine in prison. So when you take absolutely everything. That's the topic we need to discuss here. So it's not enough that what happened in conversion and privatisation happened, but after that, it happened that we were standing here as a society, as a Parliament, powerless, as a judiciary, as an institution, unable to do so, and then we are left to convince each other that maybe it wasn't so terrible after all. It's not a serious approach. The forms of complaints, i.e. the application, or acts for which they have been reported, are also, in my opinion, very interesting. Of those 178, 97 were rejected, 47 due to old age. So, out of all the applications, 25% doesn't matter at all. Until then, they fell into oblivion, no matter what. It's in itself, so it's talking about, I'd say the hardest element of this problem. Investigations, okay, are going into another 43 cases and then maybe something's going to happen. Now, looking at that data, looking at the fact that I think it's relevant and that if there's anything that we need to discuss here on the agenda today, which is that in that State's Attorney's Office report, it's that one of the main reasons why we're actually standing and watching, we know, we know the companies, we know what it is, we know how many jobs have been destroyed, we know what level of capacity use we haven't even reached since '90. So we're powerless to do anything about it, one of the reasons is that the laws are such that they actually cover that kind of robbery. It's something we can do and we have to do something about it. And finally, here I apologize to my colleague Ivanish, because I did not act in accordance with the agreement because the time had passed quickly, but when I had not already made it possible for him, I hope that he could, in the name of the club, eventually use this debate. I'm just saying, this debate seems to be, you know, when the Paris community won in Paris, then all the groups that participated in the victory of the commune were given the task of writing the draft constitution, so, among other things, the constitution was given the task of writing anarchists. And the anarchists proposed a constitution of only two articles. The first article of the proposed Anarchist Constitution read: "As of tomorrow, everything is lifted."and the second article reads: "The execution of Article 1 is not entrusted to anyone.". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43535	Please, beautiful. Corrections to the incorrect allegations are the first respected colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In a series of incorrect allegations that my colleagues are likely to correct, I will correct two. First, counterpart Pusic incorrectly stated that these points came to the agenda because one of us from Europe expects it and because negotiations are expected to begin soon. Well, that's an absolutely incorrect quote and it has nothing to do with it. It is clear exactly how these points have come to the agenda and it has also claimed that HDZ is setting up that the debate on these points will not be in front of the cameras. counterpart Pusic, HDZ is very responsible for this debate in front of the cameras. You know? So, we don't set it up, we don't determine the schedule on HTV, maybe you're the one who determined it when you were in power, so you think we can do it today. We don't do it, and we can't do it. Therefore, we are deeply concerned that our discussions, our opinions, are heard in public, to reach out to the public. We'd be happy to have this debate all the way through the cameras, since there are journalists here who follow, I'm sure they'll get to the public, too. It would be more effective through the cameras, because you would see all your jobs, all of what you did, what your soles, which are in your ranks, you know them very well, work in privatisation, and there we would very easily determine the difference between crime and the free market. Rest assured, that's what we'll determine.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43537	Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Hebrang. Here's my colleague Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43538	Thank you very much. I am correcting Mrs Pusic's quote as well as my colleague's predecessor, that we did not want a debate in front of the cameras. We want it, but they always cut us. Secondly, I didn't say they were better, but if they didn't know it, that they weren't aware of it, because that's what Mrs. Pusic said to a respected member of your coalition, that's his words, not mine. And third, I'm glad you said HDZ is as guilty of privatisation as any party. We've finally come up with a diagnosis. ... But I don't agree with that either, because that would mean that the sources from your party are all parties to a criminal organization, and I don't think it's either. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43539	Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43540	...the vice president says there's only one party criminal then really more... I'm asking you to intervene on that. [[You don't understand.]] Please nice, you can't have a session like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43541	Sorry, buddy Jarnjak, I didn't hear anything. I was just giving my word to my colleague byte. Please, I didn't hear what this was about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43542	Please, I've been looking for a club session for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43543	Absolutely, I didn't hear what happened, I was giving my word to my colleague byte, but certainly according to the Rules of Procedure when the club asks for a break has the right to do so. I'm setting a 10-minute recess for a session of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43544	After the break, we'll continue with the session. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43545	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe if one of the members of the Parliament had said that, he wouldn't have reacted like that. But when the Vice-President of the Parliament says, the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, when it says that the president of the parliamentary party from whose ranks we have already received two epithets in a few days, when he says "except yours" or "one" alluding to Croatia's democratic community that it is criminal, for us at the HDZ Club, it has gone too far. When said after this morning's agreement at the extended Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, the highest operating body of the Croatian Parliament, where it was agreed to reduce tension, to be polite to each other, not to insult each other. The arguments are arguments and the heat of battle may be different, but we can't insult it that way. In this House, the Croatian Democratic Union was called a party of dangerous intentions. We were called that we were accused of being the entire Croatian Democratic Community in 2000 and now, in this way here, you are again giving us the epithet of a "criminal organisation" after this whole day's debate. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, no more House, no more authorities than this Croatian Parliament and this House and these honorable people who have been elected here. Both them and all those members of the Croatian Democratic Community you call them criminals. It's not working. It's unacceptable. It's unacceptable. We're looking and insisting that it stop. We can object that it was this or that, that the wrong decisions were made, that anything else was made, but no one can call us criminals. Well, he can't even call anyone until he's legally convicted, so that's when he can be told. No one has ruled against the Croatian democratic community. He did, he didn't give her the 2,000th trust, but no one tried her, neither will you. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43546	Vice-President of the Parliament, respected representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43547	Thank you. Comrade Jarnjak, it's clear to me that this has upset you, but it shouldn't have upset you so much that you don't listen to what is said, if you want to react to what is not spoken on the pay phone, but is spoken in the benches. A colleague of Hebrang said by sources from your party that all parties would then be criminal organizations. It's a translation, a Croatian translation for the Mafia. And I said, not just one. In other words, no one from my party said that all parties would be criminal organizations. And fellow Jarnjak, if you want to react, if you want to react, you must listen. You can't, I understand that it's hitting you, but if you want to react to it, you have to listen to whatever it is you're saying. That's where he said his colleague Hebrang said they were all, no. According to sources from my party, not everything. But no matter... No, no. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] No, no. No, no. He said, they'd be anything. And then he said he thought no. But according to sources from my party, they wouldn't be all. Even what people have been saying in the past few days. But it can't be used, colleague Jarnjak, it can't be used every reason, even this kind of benign that's otherwise totally consistent with the facts. The fact is that no matter what we can judge them, they didn't say, the people of my party didn't say anything. No matter what, we can consider it, it's not appropriate what they said, it's stupid what they said, whatever you want, but they didn't say everything. Is it true they said everything? They didn't say anything. And that's what I said in a joke. And if you're trying to make another way out of it to talk about these marginalities instead of conversion and privatisation, I think it's too much. That's what I really think is excessive.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43548	Today, we decided that we would behave with each other tolerantly. That doesn't exclude a political match, political struggle, fighting arguments. Why throw them out of the bench and something that's understood, which one part of the MPs experiences, realizes, the notion, that they're re-pronounced with a criminal organization? Let's stick to that deal. Let's stick to this atmosphere of dialogue and culture. Every oil spill on fire after those statements that were made the other day and in the Croatian Parliament, which are also given in the media, related to the discards that can and can be understood, are seen as a repetition, as a repetition of these statements. Because what it means is a reaction from the bench when it reacts in a way that either alone or yours, it is an unequivocal conclusion that any representative in this case of the Croatian Democratic Community will again extend to them, that they are members of a criminal organisation. How we will truly act and work in this Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament, if such a thesis is constantly promoted in this Parliament, doubts in different forms that one party, this is now the Croatian Democratic Community, could be the other party, that it is to be declared a criminal organisation. I ask you, Vice-President, that you are a responsible person and a politically responsible person and a responsible person and in the Croatian Parliament, Vice-President of the Parliament, to take care of this and to take care of it. A club representing the independent list of Branimir Glavas. ... Representatives' club, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, yeah. They've given up. The Club of Representatives of the Independent List Branimir Glavas. He's gone. He's losing his word on this subject. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, respected representative Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43549	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the institutions, respected MPs. One of the key decisions that depended on a further course of events significant to most Croatian citizens was the decision on conversion and privatisation. In fact, it was a decision on the chosen model of implementing this most significant social process that he had and still still has very serious applications today in terms of its economic, social and moral consequences. That this also shows the fact that even though there are many places in the process and many times many times many things are said something new is constantly emerging and we are constantly returning to the same topic. Data from the State Audit Office that show that out of 80% of the processed conversion and privatisation in 95% of the cases committed illegally, they show that something is wrong and they are looking for answers to questions whether the model of conversion and privatisation really was a mugging campaign as many times in various instances could be heard or not. We don't have the answer to this question. We have no answer to the question whether Croatian citizens are illegally exempt from the property they have created with their long-term work and how it is necessary to amortise and for them the harmful consequences that are constantly aliminate in the issues of their daily existence. Instead of the shift of gentlemanship activities, 400 000 jobs have disappeared, pension and health problems have arisen, and the question is how to correct errors in the process of conversion and privatisation and how to establish mechanisms that there is no statute of limitations in responsibility for the illegalities done. It is certain that Croatian citizens did not deserve to suffer all the negative consequences of poorly designed and poorly designed solutions and that they must find a model of permanent sanctioning of immoral wealth in conversion and privatisation. In further privatisation, which there is no alternative in the future, there is no alternative to provide a model that will not generate all of the negatives that the model had so far. Only in this way can we ensure our credibility to Croatian citizens and we simply have to do so. I don't want to give recipes here how to do this, but maybe in addition to reviewing conversion and privatisation, you should start a question about revising the Law on Conversion and Privatisation until the elements of the return of illegally acquired property and installing a new model of privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43550	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43551	Dear fellow MP says we have no answer to the question whether privatisation and conversion was a robbery. It's incorrect, it's completely incorrect. We have an answer to that question, the answer is found in the report of a state audit that undoubtedly found that 95% of the entities they audited were converted and privatised illegally. It was a respected colleague who was designed and planned as you called a robbery.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43552	Thank you. On behalf of Club DC HSLS LS esteemed representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43553	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a very broad topic with a lot of data, an assessment and an assessment of the findings which... and a well-prepared Croatian politician can use quality and days to talk about this. However, I will not engage in such qualifications, I would just keep in my debate on one segment and that is the report on the work of the State's lawyers on criminal cases in relation to conversion and privatisation, in fact about what we could hear during this debate, interested largely in the Croatian public. The Croatian public, since this is an on-call topic for a long time in Croatian social and political life and the question of what is the purpose of these discussions is. Based on this debate, it seems that no more political party will be able to obtain more significant political points, in some future elections, only one that is a quality sanctioner of the consequences resulting from the conversion and privatisation, I think that it can withdraw sympathy among citizens and therefore some political support. I say, the Croatian public has long lost hope that they will learn the full truth about conversion and privatisation, and has also lost hope that the injustices that have been done in this process will be corrected, as well as that they will be able to compensate for the damages that have also been done. However, it remains what remains, and it is a permanent desire to find out who robbed whom, it is a direct concrete winemaker of all of this and to be punished if possible. As in every arena part of the people who are an audience want to turn their finger up or down. It is normal, to expect, therefore, in this sense a part of our Croatian public behaves. The victim, in fact, we were all in this process, the economy, the whole society, but in particular, the victims are those people who, because of their poor management and all of these interferences within the conversion and privatisation, lost their jobs, which put their personal family life at risk. In the last debate in April, we all praised, I don't think there are any political parties who didn't say that by the auditors of Mrs. Šima Krasic that it was done professionally, then we all said more or less that we wanted to see those who are guilty of all this. However, in this area where the State's Attorney's Office presented this information we do not see what we would like both as individuals and as part of the Croatian public to see. Why does it matter to me? The important thing is that all these people are still among us, not punished. It's especially frustrating for the citizens. Every day we meet these people on the street, in the environments we live in. You have an environment where such people who came to wealth overnight based on this law to defy a citizen's face, laugh at him, laugh at our wishes and expect that justice will be realized, achieved. You have an environment, and this was said today and during the debate that such people have become honorable and respected citizens, even on many lists when the previous elections were also held. They pray for various donations, they are happy to be seen at many receptions. And I say, that's what's constantly one permanent danger of one environment being frustrated. In local backgrounds, people know who these people were before the conversion and privatisation, what their material condition was, but they also know how they got that wealth. However, they expect the state authorities to react and achieve this much-needed justice, honesty, whatever you want in those environments. However, you have in our midst some parts of Croatia where it is known that people have come in an unfairly suspicious way to wealth but if they invest it in a local community then the local community essentially forgives it and in some ways they consider it invested, taken for them and for the local environment. This report shows that all of these crimes could be called conditionally in conversion and privatisation, they could be classified in two categories or that they were implemented in two ways, by selling other people's assets and by turning false claims into shares. And that's what's always in the eyes, and if it's not quality-cleared, it seems to me that we're going to often have these returns to those beginnings, and then we're going to suspect each other all the time. And the judiciary called this crime a fine term of abuse of power in economic business. That abuse is the one that was made with ten kunas and ten billion kunas. I think there should have been some kind of depression, that it shouldn't have been exactly classified under one of these categories. It's like he's kind of trying to take the weight off those who did it. The data show that 54% of applications were rejected and 18% of those reported were only charged. Of these 54% of the cases solved by the rejection of it, 46% were solved by the act of limitations. I think there's also a rabbit in this bush because of some calming down some of our social, political, social tensions. People wonder why this old age has come to an end, who actually has guessed that old age. Whether or not the age-old has been favored by politics or by politicians. What politicians and what politics? Has the statute of limitations been wronged? If it was a bad law who proposed it to Parliament to change it and in what sense changes had to be made in order to avoid these bad effects, i.e. whether the judiciary as such favoured it, individuals from the judiciary. So, people would like to see all those inmates and we still don't have them. Now, at the end of this ballad, ask the justice system to solve, I don't know what needs to be solved now. I think it's actually unreal to expect. Here, and finally I ask myself and you whether we can get the strength and courage to tell the Croatian public and Croatian citizens openly that this problem cannot be solved by the expectations of the Croatian public and the reasons why we cannot do so. Let's just say that if we go on the verge that it will be a prelude to some new conflicts, some new divisions within our Croatian, social, civil, state-owned being, that it will be a single indignation of the state itself, the legislative system, parliament, that a part of the property is finished with foreign owners of the system of reselling, that if we touch that we will simply bring Croatia back to the stage of shame. One day someone's gonna have to say it and say it, only who's gonna be that I don't see it yet. I'll at the end of my debate tell you a joke, I think you most know him. Clearly, the main players are Mujo, Haso and Fata.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43554	I ask you to leave the jokes for another time because the joke can also offend someone and given the names you mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43555	I apologize to Muji and Hasi, and Fati, but now these are two guys who help me say what I'm about to say. So he owed Mujo Hasi some big money and couldn't sleep. And Fata says good, Mujo, that thou cannot sleep; what is the matter with thee, go according to God. He says I can't owe the big money to Hasi. She says go to bed. She's going to Hasa. Hassi says my Mujo owes you some money. Yeah, he owes me. I'm here to tell you that they'll never come back to you. Now you worry. One day I fear that someone in our country will have to tell dear Croatia this truth. Someone's gonna have to be Mujo, Haso and Fata. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43556	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43557	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, representatives of state institutions, colleagues and colleagues! I'm a little disabled because I can't tell a joke at first so I can have the effect of being a colleague, Frano. But, well, I've got to get a little harder now. These reports that we have received establish a framework through which we are discussing this topic of conversion and privatisation. He's the law and the rules that come out of him when it comes to privatisation. It includes the control of the privatisation procedures carried out and includes the infringement proceedings when we have established that the rules are not respected. And something else that's important comes out of these reports. There was no need for honesty, to ease the rhetoric now, and which is equally important, perhaps even more important by privatizing the desired effects. These two things did not require honesty and did not achieve the desired economic effects. I think that's what we should talk about. I didn't hear anyone say it was supposed to be archived like that today, put a dot on it and willingly. But I recognized in some of the claims that maybe we should do something like that, and then he'll do the time. Of course, various approaches and other stories are possible. I advocate that we should talk about it, and I think that because of these two things that I particularly stressed, because something was done is unfair and because we didn't get the effect of economically that we should actually keep it focused on the effect of economic, that we should actually keep it in focus all the time, and then the one that wasn't fair will eventually run into it. But I would now stay in this opening part of it. And here I'm going to tell you an illustration or one story that represents an illustration that's not so attractive because it's in the zone, so to speak lower numbers. But it seems to me that she can be illustrative for this whole story I'm talking about. It's time in '96, the theme is the conversion of ten cooperatives. I could talk about names, names, but that's not my goal. What's going on here? It seems important to me it is about the area where cooperatives were either the only or the best economic operators and could be some kind of chance for economic development after the coming time. So let me use the medical term, the anatomy of the story, according to how I gained perception is your next. These cooperatives, they had a stable business. They acquired property that was a good guarantee that some of it could be done. They had hundreds of employees and probably a few, thousands or two, or I don't know three thousand family members who trusted in it. These people who were in cooperatives were also saving and working because they used to behave like that in these institutions. Cooperatives were a flexible form of management because they are based on a land that cannot escape and on something that is constantly needed. So, the activity that you always need. The activity that we now know about, tomorrow we'll know, has a perspective with 100 difficulties but has a perspective. These cooperatives have built a tradition of living off their own effort. And they covered the economic space that was, which was passive. And now that we see, if that's what we're trying to establish what would be a converted interest. She has to say that it is, that both public and individual interest that this must be protected or that both must be protected. Unfortunately, it's all gone now. Now, the transfer was done in an interesting way. Cooperatives were placed on the hands and at the disposal and owned by individuals who had not known where they were five days before. I dare say it couldn't have been done, that these people couldn't have gotten it without strong sponsorship. And it always seems to me that's the most important thing. These new owners did not have the will to do anything useful, nor did they invest a single penny in this acquisition. Now. I said I was talking about a low-intensity story. If this were a story of the higher intensity of numbers, then I would dare to claim that it's organized crime and that it's political clienteleism. Whether or not we can think about it ourselves. Now, there's an interesting thing about this story going on. And one of those people he acquired became the owner of the cooperative, now he's going into court proceedings and he says, "Yeah, there's this joint business space and that building there." Now that he's gone... Now he's going to get richer for how much money and how many units of something without a fight. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, no money. The sequel to the story in another example is like this. If you put me in that role. I went to borrow a few hundred thousand marks. ... The cooperative property, he gave, offered for the mortgage, is now the bank's property, which means this one didn't repay the loan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That means there's been a transfer of the bank's money into my pocket, of course, not mine. Now, I have to say, I have to say something emotional from the position of these cooperatives because they've been reporting to the Privatisation Fund and they've got an answer that is correct but it's official, your intervention is now off-limits. It's past the deadline so you can intervene. And in fact, the content is that someone has kidnapped their efforts and that they are, they are, they are, they are, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, Now, now I'm going back somewhat to that story we had at the last point. So, this morning when we talked, then we talked about deadlines, I wouldn't be able to hold onto it, formally, what this deadline offers or what prevents, but I think we're bound to think of something like this in a way that shouldn't happen first, and when it happens, it has to be explored in a way that takes what's not his and that someone is punished for doing it against the law, and there's all this. It's all there! And especially important, it's especially important that as a state, you send me a message that means you can't do whatever you want and the law has to be respected. And I think that independent of these dates we're talking about and independent of whether or not the deadlines leaks, regardless of what Mr... He can or can't, but we shouldn't have archived that thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43558	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, Honorable Representative Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, we agreed to split those 20 minutes into two parts, not half, but two parts, so how much time left for fellow Tadic. So, today we've talked a lot about conversion and privatisation, so let's actually let these reports, i.e. by showing on the review, say a few words in principle. In the opinion of the HSP Club, detention and privatisation, and of course later revision of conversion and privatisation, have shown that in fact the original accumulation of capital in sasma is certainly immoral, but also what is much more important or much more explicit and illegal. And that this hour is on stage actually legalizing such acquired capital. Of course, we do not deal with one of those in the club, I would say the general atmosphere and we hold that the former, but the current government also enabled the creation and maintenance of a new Croatian capitalist elite that actually acquired its property while Croatian citizens participated in the Homeland War. So while one Homeland War was seen and experienced as an opportunity to finally create the Croatian state, others, mostly those who were in positions and in the former state, also experienced the Homeland War revolutionaryly. But in a way that opened them up to the opportunity to get their hands on the greatest available wealth, and that was the wealth of social property. Of course, this necessarily caused divisions in society that are still being held today in almost all areas and reflect almost all areas of life. It is evident that so far the authorities have placed themselves on the side of a minority that has questionable goods. Of course it's at the expense of Croatian citizens. In view of this situation, it may become clear why more proceedings in this country have been initiated against Croatian defenders than against Croatian tycoons. In this chain of relativating tycoon sins and minorising state values in our court, unfortunately, the weakest link is the State Attorney's Office, which is also shown by this report in fact by one surprising and completely inappropriate inability to process irregularities identified in the conversion and privatisation. The more I go, the more I'm going to go, the more I'm going to say that I'm going to get the impression that the State's Attorney's office is actually becoming lawyers for those irregularities. It is also a bit strange, I must admit, their interpretation of regulations which are mainly aimed at challenging irregularities and qualifications of irregularities that have been identified by the State Audit Office. Therefore, failure to respect the views of the State Audit Office by the State Attorney's Office can mean only two things to us: 1. that the State Audit Office has misdetermined irregularities, and in the State Attorney's Office, there are experts who show that the State Audit Office is not doing very well. Of course, we at the club have a rather suspicious view, especially since the State Audit Office is also a highly specialized body unlike the state's attorneys. And those who have, in recent years, pointed out that they do not have enough knowledge, in particular, of the accounting and financial and so on. So they complained actually about their professional equipment. Either that or another option that is imposed is that the State's Attorney's Office is not acting properly because of its ignorance or which would be even worse because of some other far worse reasons we don't even want to speculate about. So it's obvious that here we need to determine which of the authorities isn't doing right? Because both can't be right. So since they have the opposite views on the same thing, one of these two state institutions is wrong. Also, the State's Attorney's Office's report does not show what is the criterion that only a certain number of people are charged with or charged with committing certain acts, and that all the necessary elements of the case have also been met. An example. For example, it is particularly interesting to see who is and who is not accused of selling unrated properties? If you look at who's accused and who's not accused of selling unrated properties then you'll see that there's actually no clear reason why someone is, and why isn't someone accused of the same act? And that was determined by the state audit's natural findings. It comes out so that there were a lot of such irregularities and only a small number of those against whom the indictment was brought. Everyone in their right mind asks why and by what criteria? The work of the State's Attorney's Office is also considered obvious to us that the State's Attorney's Office either does not know or may be even more likely, but it is also more dangerous to take actions that need to be taken in accordance with the law and regulations. If we add to this the slowness and all other negative characteristics of the judiciary followed by the charges, then it is no wonder that Croatian citizens have the least confidence in the judiciary in all the polls. That the scene is now actually about the descent and privatisation, the relativisation of all irregularities and the attempt to mix up the biggest real problem in Croatian society shows the unification of all these reports into one single item of the agenda. We have a feeling in the club that this actually doesn't want much debate on these reports and that it wants to focus the public on some other or imaginary or completely insignificant problems of the type of law-making, let's say, homosexual marriages. Because it's a much more important topic than these reports for some. It is symptomatic that the chief state attorney has repeatedly publicly expressed his dissatisfaction with the overall impact of persecution and treatment due to conversion and privatisation. Some day he presented his dissatisfaction with the overall impact and persecution and actions of the state's attorney to the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. So the head man of the bodies who received thousands of applications from both citizens and the competent authorities, such as the State Audit Office, has also filed 18 counts of charges. So the state's attorney basically says he's actually unhappy with the work of an institution he's headed. He finds what we think is actually surprising in all of this one paradoxical situation, he's the least guilty of it. I think the culprit should be sought somewhere else, and we at the club hold that the culprit is in the political will to process such things, not in the person of the state's attorney. The findings of the State Audit Office over the past few years clearly and unequivocally show a large number of irregularities, not only of different mechanics and proud owners of newly-componed entrepreneurial empires, but also of competent state bodies, especially the Croatian Privatisation Fund. I ask you a question on behalf of the club HSP how many charges or indictments have been filed against the responsible persons from the Croatian Privatisation Fund? You can imagine the answer yourself, it's not a big reward question, perhaps, for that 100 kuna at the beginning of the quiz. General data on the number of irregularities show us at least ineffectiveness and sloppyness of all responsible bodies, including the Croatian Privatisation Fund, without being held accountable. The helplessness of state bodies is not present in small and insignificant crimes committed by ordinary citizens. There, there is efficiency very high and there are state institutions showing enviable efficiency. However, with those of us here today, this efficiency is negligible. Out of the inability of state bodies to process the biggest robbery in Croatia clearly and unequivocally, this state is far from the rule of law. If we don't change something seriously, of course it won't be for much longer. It is doubtless, ladies and gentlemen, that if there is a will then there is a way, it is absolutely certain. Both former and current authorities obviously have neither will nor power nor desire nor knowledge of solving and sanctioning the desolation of conversion and privatisation. It is clear that no economic takeoff will occur in such an environment, but incompetence will for some time be covered up by the sale and conversion of remaining state ownership, and for all state institutions will continue to conceal the incompetence of the ruling structures and their business partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43560	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected gentlemen from the Croatian Government, respected gentlemen from the Office of State Audit and from the Croatian National Bank. This discussion today on the review of privatisation on the one hand was encouraged, of course, by the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, and also by our court and recent affairs in privatisation, both Liburnia Riviera of the Hotel and TLM. What, however, falls into the eyes is that the Croatian state has been working intensively in its audit all these years. common privatization, while very little space has been devoted so-called. coupon privatisation. The shadow behind a kind of smoke-screen of public calling, with the right to publicly call a privatization hero, such as Kutle and others, has passed in the shadows, so this whole story with coupon privatisation. And perhaps nothing would have been said about her, perhaps the Parliament would never have discussed it if the Liburni affair had not happened by chance. We, however, believe it is necessary to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament, if nothing else, because the State Review report on the review of privatisation, the coupon part of privatisation, passed in the Parliament without any major pomp and debate. As we are already at the end of today’s work day, I will sum up all my discussions in fact in ten key questions that man must automatically ask himself as soon as he sees the process. So it's crystal clear what the alleged intentions of the people who wrote the Law on PIFs were, and that's to devastate wartime victims through the stocks. But the first logical question that is being asked is why did the state not instead bring that part of its shares into a special state fund for the compensation of war victims, but instead leave the country to private societies, expecting that they would take better care of the needs of war victims themselves? So it turns out that Count Felds, Ostora and the others were doing it all together from purely humanitarian initiatives, so it's really phenomenal. Secondly, when looking at the way the entire coupon privatisation was carried out in those three circles, and this is finely seen from the State Audit findings, it is immediately observed that the coupon allocation programme of the shares was not adopted and published in a legally prescribed manner. Moreover, that the entire portfolio of shares intended for the PIFs was not presented to the public, all the companies that were to be involved were not included in the process and the auctioned and really transferred shares were not matched. The man automatically wonders why it hasn't already been stopped, but the kicking has moved on. After that, we come up with the craziest part of the coupon privatisation, which is the exchange of shares. So, what is quite clear, whoever read the Law on PIFs can easily spot, the replacement of shares that was made is not covered by the Law on PIFs, but is nevertheless implemented. So the thing is really bizarre. You go into the store, you buy a cocktail with some gift voucher, you take a trip out of town with them, and then you go back to the store and you look for a replacement for those worn cocktails for the most expensive shoes in the store. It was literally the way it was done. So the thing wasn't legally covered, but what's even wilder. Why the exchange of shares was not carried out as man would have expected in that case. So, all the PIFs return their so-called. Bad shares that will no longer be used, to get them back to the fund, to pay back their coupons, or vouchers, and then to carry out a new circle of privatisation in which everyone participates. This is how it all came down to the cattle fair. I give you my cow for your two goats, or vice versa. And that's all you'll forgive, was spent dead cold. But what's even more crazy is that the PIFs were allowed to replace the shares, and individuals, war victims who made it all possible to replace the shares. Moreover, the PIFs were not allowed to conclude any share swap agreement with the PIFs until the PIFs were entered in the court register and until they included their accumulated shares in a regulated public market of shares. So why was all this done outside the public stock market? And now we come to an even more interesting part, and these are, of course, questions about what has been tolerated all these years, which is why the whole process is not halted even by the arrival of the new government in 2000, which is why it is being brought into arbitration rather than court? Why didn't Liburnia pay off the stock market's money, but some kind of deal? In fact, what was allowed in the shadow of all other privatisations to take place and the final one, which is that these same PIFs broadcast their own shares that were then often bought from companies that managed these PIFs, or that these PIFs had turned into holding companies? At the end of the assessment of Lebanon, the arbitrary assessment of Liberia for the arbitrary assessment of the debt created by arbitrary exchange of shares is, in fact, one of the whole series of arbitraryities that culminated in the Liburnia affair, but it is up to us as a Parliament to explore this whole series and to actually bring this whole thing to the Croatian public. Neither I nor my colleagues at the HSP club want to tolerate further trafficking of illegally acquired shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43561	Thank you very much. Was there a division written in there? ... It's done. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now we're done discussing clubs. 42 MPs and MPs have been registered for individual hearings. The first is the respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. ... Excuse me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43562	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting my colleague, Mr Tadic, that the coalition government has not stopped the exchange of shares under coupon privatisation. By taking over the management of the Croatian Privatisation Fund at the same time, illegal and harmful agreements on exchange of shares have been stopped, and also Mr Tadic, I am correcting the allegations. The Croatian Fund did not launch the arbitration procedure. Unsatisfactory funds launched an arbitration procedure, and only as an anti-party had to be agreed, and then it was the untruth brought out by the Deputy Prime Minister, who says the fund led the arbitration. The arbitration was led by insatiable men called Count Eltz and by the name of Ostora. They're people who didn't have enough money that they got, so they started arbitration, but I'd say court proceedings. The current government at that time is not a single contract realised.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43563	Dear representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43564	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. As we debated here all day on these topics, a metal union called and said literally to the public: "This is a play in the Croatian Parliament". We've reported to the State Audit a whole series of illegal shops, they've been found, no one's been punished. Therefore, everything that we are discussing extends deadlines and only to the State Audit, we are now still discussing and at the government's incentivising the conclusion of the long-distance 2002. And maybe it's not worse to always talk about it, to support this tension and this subject in public. But this is clean... if he doesn't come to an end. This really doesn't make sense unless it allows the authorities and bodies in charge to carry out exactly what the State Audit found, but there's not a word about it. And we wouldn't be discussing this today if it hadn't been for the shame and when the public got excited about the sale, or "Liburnia" gift, and the truth is that this topic isn't the theme of the ruling ones, they didn't even promise this in their election program to complete the audit, that they would sanction persecution. There's never a choice about that. And that's why it's no wonder that we are now in the late hours discussing far from the public on this subject. And why, it's already common knowledge. It's just hard to take the impression, because the fact that it happened in the '90s as the laws changed to cover the new situation, and now again, it's just not easy. It is much more difficult than to make a co-opernica turn like this with regard to co-operation with the Hague Court, when the sticking of posters by some generals was declared the greatest patriotic act and now they are traitors of the Croatian people who do not think well of Croatia or of this authority. However, the truth is that absolute justice cannot be done with the best will. A long time has passed, and a long time has never been an ally in the processing of such crimes. However, we need to establish such justice, because citizens are constantly looking for it and it is simply not possible for a further social consensus among people until at least the part that has carried out the State Audit is brought to work. People aren't against privatisation, but they're against robbery and thieving. The conscious former government is the fact that the processes in economic crime are not satisfactory and that the whole series of causes are that before and before these reports and the obligations imposed by the Croatian Parliament and which you Mr. President rightly said that it does not matter whether it was signed by this or that President of the Parliament, that it is continuity and certainly is and certainly is binding on this government. Either let him say, "It's no longer binding" or we have some other program of ours, but this can't be escaped. So exactly in line with the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament to make it possible to sanction economic crime as best as possible, some laws have been drawn up and amended. The amendment of the Penal Code has been made, even here three readings have passed because it was one comprehensive novel, and the most changes and what the Croatian public was most interested in and what was with the most hope and expectations were just incriminations in the area of economic crimes. And as the Government explained in its proposal at the time, it is precisely what we can today argue, that during the transformation and privatisation of the Republic of Croatia, a large number of criminal actions that are often not processed, which make it difficult to affirm the principle of rule of law, lead to mistrust of citizens in laws and authorities, negatively affecting economic development, reject foreign investors and Croatian entrepreneurs and what is particularly dangerous, promote social and individual inequality and have a negative impact on social stability and general social security. Croatia is facing a series of reforms and they cannot be implemented until the end if we have one such dichotomy in society and an atomized society, and it is disturbed with these facts. And today the average citizen may be eager for everything, but most of all, they are eager for justice regardless of whether or not they will be compensated, but they are seeking justice. It is a basic prerequisite for the further development of every society, and on our own. And it is in these changes, as a central criminal offence, that the abuse of trust that would have entered the place of abuse of positions and powers so far, if the perpetrator is a responsible person. As a result, some other economic acts have been abolished, but bankruptcy crimes have also been audited. New criminal acts of bribery have been introduced which, behold, has subsequently been accepted by the new authorities in amendments to the Penal Code, but have given up on this. We all know that today's government has not voted in favour of these amendments to the law. But then, of course, it wasn't popular then, as it is now, that we don't want to do it exactly because of it, but there's been an excuse to decriminalize the users and drug owners. So if that's what it was like, right now in the position of government, why don't you do it? But no. The penal code has changed, now for the third time, but these changes are gone. But that's your obligation. We were doing it. The Constitutional Court abolished the novel because it was not adopted in a necessary manner. So, two-thirds majority. Now it's your duty to do it. We've been waiting for it. First time changes the law, no. Next time, there isn't. When we saw that the government did not do its job which is mandatory to the citizens who expect it, after all, and according to this House, then the SDP Club renewed the same novel and proposed such changes. You said no. And the government on 29 April 2004 says on this proposal: "new incriminations in the area of economic crime require the necessary previous analysis. The complexity of punitive conduct in the area of economic crime requires urgent and careful judgment from the aspect of their phenomenon, executions, etc., but all this removes urgency except in the area of compliance with international obligations based on convention law." So, for the first time, we only had an amendment to the European and international conventions, but not this. Furthermore, the government said at the time: "in the existing provisions of the KZ there is a given legal framework for the protection and incrimination of prohibited actions in the context of economic crimes, and criminal repression in this area is primarily a matter of detecting, processing and sanctioning economic crime." So, it shifts responsibility to the bodies of persecution, and we saw today from the State's Attorney's Office report, the question of these, how many problems they face in their work, especially with regard to the very legal nature. And how necessary it is to amend the Penal Code. Mr. President, I'm with this conclusion, but we all expect the Assembly to conclude because then this is all pointless. Let's also show these metals and all the citizens that this isn't just a show or some... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43565	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43566	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The answer to the question of what was conversion and privatisation we know. It was an orderly robbery. The state audit report shows that 95% of the audited entities were not subject to the law. But we don't need to read the State Audit results to get an answer to that pretty simple question. We'll get it from every citizen of ours on the road, if we ask him what it was for him to be converted and privatized. ...all give the same answer, robbery. We will also get an answer to that question if we see who went through the process. On the one hand, we have a group of rich people who didn't even have a bike at the start of the process, and today they're riding in helicopters. And on the other hand, we have a huge mass of dismembered and robbed workers. Who are these workers? Isn't it just citizens, nameless citizens? The 400,000 who lost their jobs? No, I don't. Each of them has a name and a last name, most of them have a family, and they've all been killed, they've run out of existence, without rights, unworthy life so that the first group can get rich. Among those citizens are defenders who set out to defend the country because it was attacked. While others instead went into the defense into conversion. They didn't know who they were defending back then, they didn't know how to defend those who robbed them while they were defending them. They went to war from their jobs, and when they returned to their jobs, they were gone. Some were destroyed in the war, that's true. But some have disappeared in conversion and privatisation. These citizens are also victims of the Homeland War, who have been robbed several times. For the first time as citizens, as workers, and the second time as victims through the PIFs. Well, as if it wasn't enough that they were once robbed as workers, once again they were taken away from what the state had given them as compensation for the death in the war. Now, how did that happen? Mrs. Lucia Chikesh gave a more intense answer to that question today. She said, President Franjo Tudjman decided to create 200 wealthy families to bring national wealth into the hands of people with national awareness. I haven't heard a better definition. That's how it started. ... Get a phonogram, don't throw it away. It wasn't like that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Take a phonogram and check it out. I have not heard a better definition, I suggest it enters history textbooks on privatisation and conversion into Croatia. That's how it started, and then everything was technique. Markovic's law was abolished, a new one was passed. He adapted the Penal Code so that there would be no prosecution, to put the heads of the banks loyal to the people who gave credits that no one would repay and then carry out the robbery. We all know that, but what good is that knowledge to us? Not at all. The only meaningful question that is now being raised in this debate, and which may have been raised for many years. How to achieve justice, how to punish robbers, how to take away their money. The coalition government had two options, she thought it would solve this issue, satisfy justice, punish robbers and return the robbery. The two options stood at her disposal, first cancel the whole conversion and privatisation, which means to implement the revolution, implement the new nationalisation, all of it back to the state portfolio and the thing to start from the beginning. But that government didn't have a mandate for the revolution, didn't even ask for it. She asked for a mandate to be a government that would solve injustices by means of legal means through the judicial system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43567	My colleague, the revolutionaries are not asking for a mandate from anyone. There is no mandate for the revolution. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43568	Mr. President, I would ask you, our Rules of Procedure obliges you to maintain order at the session and allow the representative to speak uninterruptedly. Not that you set such a bad example for the other MPs, that you interfere with the speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43569	I must warn you that you're talking about something that isn't there. There's no mandate for the revolution. I'm worried that the argument is being conducted and the laws are being applied, and I know what revolutions are, you know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43570	I don't know if you were at Parliament's presidency this morning discussing how the President of the Parliament behaves, but if it wasn't for me, I'd invite you to discuss it next time. So that you might consider not allowing the President of the Parliament to throw MPs and comment on their discussions during the debate. If you think I didn't do business, you can warn me and take away my word for it, that's what the Rules of Procedure lets you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43571	And it allows me to draw attention to something that... doesn't scientific thesis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43572	And it doesn't allow you to throw, comment and distract me in the debate. Like I said, she didn't have a mandate for the coalition government's revolution. She believed in the judiciary, she started, audited conversion and privatisation, passed a special law on seeing what was robbed, how it was robbed, in which it amounts and in what way. And she trusted in the judiciary that it would put away the robbers. And as a result of the work of that judiciary, the victory of the law over justice. Justice requires him to be punished because he's a robber, and the law said he can't be punished in antiquity, and that's the result of that justice. Can we find out today at least the names of those who were in that robbery chain, in that organization of evil, that we could, we could find out the names of those who proposed the laws that allowed the robbery, the names of those who voted the laws, as they were called, those MPs, who appointed the directors of banks who gave credits without cover, as these directors are called, who were the leaders of the Privatisation Fund who could and did not cancel the illegal privatisations. What's the name of a state lawyer who didn't go into criminal prosecution on time, before the statute of limitations, what are called the converts themselves, who are the names of the state audit findings. You know, the ban on killing any living creature and animal in Buddhism is like, "Who agrees to murder, who kills, who buys or sells, who is ready, who serves, who eats, who is all murderers." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43573	All murderers, fellow Stazic I knew why I intervened at the moment you spoke of the mandate of the revolution. You've now made a hidden but clear assessment that the entire chain of all state bodies, officials, deputies, ministers, is that they're criminals, that they're murderers. That's what everyone will understand, what you said on the trail of the same thing that was declaring the HDZ criminal organisation. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43574	Thank you very much, Mr. President, in a number of incorrect allegations of fellow Stazic speaking about criminals and those who robbed Croatian defenders speaking of coupon privatisation, I am correcting because, based on the defined rules of coupon privatisation, the registration of persons who had the right to participate was made up of persons who were wartime wartime wartime people with disabilities, families of the dead Croatian defenders, prisoners or missing Croatian defenders, civilians, and their families, civil and peacetime disabled wars, exiles of the refugee and former political prisoners. However, also fellow Stazic, saying and returning to those 200 families, I would remind him of the moment when the Croatian government refused to give a list unanimously requested by the Croatian Parliament, on 27 June 2000, the Croatian Democratic Community Club asked that the government's report not be accepted and that we get a list of the 200 families, however, the proposed HDZ Club was rejected by 83 votes against which SDP voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43575	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43576	Mr. President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, the Funds, the State Audit Office, colleagues and colleagues. The question really arises why the debate on privatisation, why so many reported ones, why the debates deep into the night when we have almost no proposal on how to resolve the negative effects of privatisation. The question arises whether we have an adequate answer, because the government has not suggested certain answers, because in these two years we did not have proposals and discussions on legal proposals that would address such negative consequences could be concluded that we do not have an answer to that. However, during this whole period of the State Audit and given almost 7 or 8 reports on our work and findings, we had different attempts that sometimes ended in an infamous manner. However, I would say that today we had an interesting and impressive presentation for me of representatives of the HDZ Club. It seems to me that it was more directed to HDZ than to the public. I'd give a personal assessment. Perhaps it's also fortunate that the public didn't hear from Mr. Hebrang who claimed that nothing could be done through the process of conversion and privatisation because nothing had happened because it was all robbed by the year 90. See, however, the revision found that the underlying capital that entered into the conversion was reduced by 4 billion marks or 16%, that almost a billion were not introduced into the underlying capital, what they could estimate marks of value and failed to estimate because they could not reach the cost of real estate for an additional 2 million and 800 thousand square meters of land. This mainly refers to our coastal areas, so where tourist companies were also 89 thousand square meters of object surface area. The audit found that in companies where the audit was carried out, the number of employees was reduced by 386 thousand or 22%, that of the number of companies that were audited 345 went into bankruptcy or bankruptcy was launched, or bankruptcy was ongoing or 22% of such companies. And says Mr. Hebrang is not responsible for the consequences of privatisation. I can also accept such an assessment and cannot say that one party or several people are responsible for it. But let's remember, from 90 to 2000 HDZ had such a parliamentary majority that it could bring itself without any consultations, without any compromise with any other political forces in the Parliament, so it could have passed the laws on its own, and in that I see, in fact, a certain responsibility of your party because you've passed the laws, you've made their changes, so you've had the opportunity to control the conversion and privatisation. The fact is that for ten years it was not intended to open a debate at all about the need to pass a special law on the revision of conversion and privatisation because it was explained by the existing Law on Conversion and Privatisation that control is possible. Why wasn't that control going on? If we were forced to go in such a catastrophic state of the economy into conversion because these were going European countries, I ask why the Republic of Slovenia did not go there. She first rehabilitated her companies to raise their value and then went to privatisation. Why was it done during the war? There was no reason for this to be done during the war, but for the former social property to be held. What was going to be privatized, what was going on for sale in such a difficult situation for the state and for the citizens? Why was there a yagme to come into possession of companies that were in such a catastrophic state? So these are all issues that we did not get an answer from representatives of the HDZ Club. And now I'm saying, what's the review found, what were those irregularities? What irregularities are identified in the fund's procedures, we do not have a word in the fund's report. I'll just list some. The audit report said that the agency and later the fund changed the estimated value of the companies and the documentation did not show the reasons why it was done. Then the Agency's solution or the consent fund to the intended conversion was not adopted within the time limit, there is no evidence whether amendments and additions to the documentation have been requested in the meantime. If the acquirers of unpaid shares or shares had not delivered the transfer contracts of shares to the new acquirers used the benefits of such shares, the management rights were also used on the basis of the shares transferred from small shareholders, they did not regularly pay off the shares and the fund did not terminate such contracts. That shares and shares acquired by the conversion of social enterprises were not trying to sell for several years, which is not in line with the provisions of Article 31. The law on the conversion of social enterprises. And that in the case of irregular payment of the fund and Croatian pension insurance broke off contracts with a delay, all the shares returned to their portfolio and returned the amount paid to the customers. The buyer used management property rights until such contracts were terminated. And so we could still count. Behind what was going on in coupon privatisation. My colleague, he's not here, Ivanish said we don't want to discuss it. No, so we discussed it. I led a rather harsh controversy here in this assembly with former privatisation minister Mr. Kovac when we received a report on coupon privatisation. What happened? I'm just going to quote a State's Attorney's Office report that says so. The leaders of the Privatisation Fund for Unconscious Treatment, the conclusion of harmful contracts, the failure of due supervision in the privatisation of certain companies have been reported. However, without reporting for the purpose of obtaining property benefit for a particular person, it was milder criminal acts for which the persecution was outdated before the criminal application was filed. It continues to say that the established exchanges of shares in their own right clearly referred to harmful contracts and the damage suffered to the stockholders. However, since the replacements in some cases preceded the relevant decisions of the executive authorities, this is a questionable criminal liability of certain responsible persons. I don't think that takes much comment. And in the end, just a few sentences and this fifth point, about the execution of conclusions. Indeed, here's a comparison of what the conclusions were after the first report delivered by the State Audit Office. We have here at the Council of Conclusions of the Government which has committed to certain actions of the Ministry of Justice, Finance, Economy, State Audit Office and the State Attorney's Office. They are empowered by the conclusions of the Parliament that we should be discussing today, but we have no material at all. What happened after the final State Audit report? The government gave us its opinion saying that it took note of the report on the work on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation, and when SDP Club and some other clubs proposed certain conclusions, the HDZ Club also appeared. The government delivered an opinion on the conclusions proposed by the clubs in the Assembly and this was only voted after three months after the debate on the report was held. So all of this really doesn't need any comment. The question now is what is the government to do after this additional debate on privatisation and conversion in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43577	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43578	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Zgrebec has misquoted my statements in several places. First of all, I didn't say HDZ wasn't responsible for privatisation. However, I said, we feel co-responsible but we are our own participants who have sinned against the law and morals, thrown out, cleaned from our party, and it is yet to wait for you. So I pleaded guilty and we made certain political sanctions. It's also incorrect to assume that companies had great value, I claimed they were devalued before the '90s, because they had a high value found. Your value depends on the market and when grenades fall, then the value of companies falls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43579	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of Slaven Letica, he's gone. He's losing his word. The Honorable representative of Pearl Perman, she's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Joseph Leko, he's gone. He's losing his word on this wheel. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43580	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll try and shorter than allowed time to get involved in this debate. Namely, the first question I asked myself when I brought together all these papers that we're obviously having all day, what we're actually discussing today and tomorrow. When the materials we requested began to come a few months ago, it seems to me that in the first set of materials came a report from the state's attorney's office and I looked forward to other materials because I expected that in these papers, the obviouss, the reports would find something new, something I didn't know, something that would guide me or help me understand all the processes that took place in the Croatian chain of conversion and privatisation and all the difficulties that the state bodies had in carrying out their work. But when I read it all, I realized that I could actually read it all in the paper. For the last 13 years, everything that was written in these papers has been in the papers, only the headlines were different. So there was not the title of the Croatian Bank, but was the title that Shkegro had taken shares in the shareholders of the Croatian Bank. It wasn't the Dubrovnik Bank that wrote it, but the headline in the paper was who... When is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Zagreb then wrote a gucician. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When Free Dalmatia was then it was written by a cauldron. So, only the headlines changed, all the facts, the data, the numbers, the information I understood, and I realized from the state's attorney's final report, and I got nothing. But there is a great deal of effort in one place that we have all the facts, data, figures, displays, and may serve for a few dozen years some experts who will deal with some phenomena in our society. So when I saw it all and put it all together, then the following conclusions were imposed on me. That in the Croatian public speech, and we here in the Parliament are constantly giving three courts, three conclusions, three claims that based on these papers cannot stand. And since we've been invited all the time and I agree with the fact that we have to present evidence for our claims, I'm going to make an effort to give evidence. First of all, I think that all those who claim that conversion and privatisation were wrong. And to stop using that flossula. It just can't be right. Because if all the bodies of the investigation, surveillance, audit, prosecution and trial for these 13 years have prosecuted and condemned 4 + 9 = 13 people what kind of robber are we talking about? What's this about? What are we, what are we trying to be? Both the prosecutor and the judge and the executioner. The Croatian judiciary, the Croatian lawyer's office is independent, the judiciary is independent of all, and also of politics. And they said 13 people. So where are the elements organized, systematic, elaborated, led robbery? It's not there. These were individual outbursts, excesses, a few individuals, exactly 13 people in Croatia. Second. Floscula, some of them got rich in a hurry. Well, as we expect, I think someone's getting rich slowly. So you get state's attorney's office, tax audit, police, POA, VOA, DAP, bank, so when you get rich, you get rich fast because otherwise they'll catch you on time. Normally, people need to get rich in a hurry. What we resent is that they did something in a hurry, so that's how it's done. Because when you're slow, someone's gotta catch up to you before you get rich. ... And third, I didn't get it right. Can you guys repeat that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much, that will never be. And the third flossula is 400,000 lost jobs. Where's that coming from? It's always been established, and I just have to agree with that that's not about losing our jobs, it's about having a rationalization of the economy. These were people who had jobs, books and solutions but did nothing and only that rationalization in the economy helped us to start again later. A few thousand companies have passed the process of conversion and privatisation and, if I recall, 23 billion marks have been nominated somewhere according to estimates when entering... 13 years of process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only 13 individuals, criminals, legally convicted. Such results do not have a single transition state in Europe that has been through this. Instead of these attacks, flossulas and people's grades, we have to acknowledge that the concept has been extremely successful. And in the end, why are we discussing this? Because we asked for it. This House has reached the conclusions by which we have requested this report and that we will discuss it with them. We have received them, we are discussing them, however, in point 8 of the conclusions I must quote them, it says: The Croatian Parliament will, after the deadlines from the previous points, consider all reports delivered, we are doing so now and on the basis of the debate that will tomorrow determine the taking of the necessary measures within 90 days in order to remove irregularities, illegality and possible compensation of the Republic of Croatia for damages incurred in the conversion and privatisation, including the creation of a new privatisation law which should be defined among other things by the ESOP model. I think it was in April if I'm not mistaken. This is just the first step. The Croatian People's Party Club refused to subscribe this proposal to the conclusions and... voted for him and now I'm asking a question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we have requested all this information of the report and of the evidence to remove irregularities, illegalities, damages to the damage caused by the new Law in privatisation with the ESOP model within 90 days. Who will propose to remove irregularities, illegality of compensation of the Republic of Croatia, the new Privatisation Act including the ESOP model? Whether these are SDP, HSS, HDZ, HSU, IDS, National Minorities, SDSS and HSLS clubs and whether the proposals will come to you within 90 days, with a notice that the government in its statement on February 3rd, forgive, later, in a second indication of April the ESC model has been problematic and said, in the Croatian economy, it is not the ESOP's right and motivation, but rather the problem of fresh capital as the essence of the problem of the Croatian economy and the ESOP will not contribute to the fact that the Croatian economy gets a financial injection. This is the government's reserve according to the ESOP model. I therefore expect from the proponents of these conclusions, this point 8 of the conclusion that we do not stop at this debate but rather determine the measures of illegality of compensation, a new law on privatisation that will include the ESOP model. Otherwise, this debate was neither needed nor will it benefit anyone, and only proof is that we were then in the "zeit note," and as these conclusions came to an end, we tried to postpone the decision when we made it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43581	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Vladimir Plesha. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43582	My colleagues and fellow MPs. After the State Audit Office submitted a final report on the audits carried out, it was clearly found that in 1556 companies in which the audit was carried out after the privatisation of 400 000 workers, with 4 billion marks being reduced to share capital. That's supposed to be the damage caused by the privatisation. The damage, however, was only slightly higher than half of the privatised capital companies. In 1996 irregularities were identified, and only 71 criminal charges were filed. Not only does it deal with the finding of enormous damage and the non-subsidisation of those who have caused damage to this House, it has reached conclusions with the aim of collecting additional information and in order to find the possibility of sanctioning the perpetrators of illegality as well as finding a way to restore what individuals have adopted by privatising by harming the state and its citizens. According to the government's recommendation, the parliamentary majority was not prepared to accept the conclusions proposed by opposition clubs. These conclusions are corrected, tempered, and those they have bound to the end have compromised them, and that is why we now have a lot of material and little benefits from it. The highest quality and most useful is the State's Attorney's Office's report, which clearly shows that this is exactly the kind of privatisation that has been planned and thus created a legal basis for it by legalising the most harmful actions and without sanctioning irregularities and illegalities. So the ruling elite wanted such privatisation and therefore passed such laws, set up a system in which no one really cared about state property by turning it into self-service without a cash register. Those who received the signal were self-serviced without charge, and the system protected them including the judicial authority. That's how we find it right in the State's Attorney's Office's report, where it says, "In the wake of the charges, the courts have issued only four convictions, two on probation and two on unconditional fines." And time is running out, and with it the girls are running out of deadlines. Because of the conversion of baseless claims into shares, there was damage of 356 million marks, but despite the damages of the proceedings, they were not sanctioned or processed, and we wonder why? The state's attorney says: "The illegal actions created were related to wider economic policy decisions. The conversion of baseless claims into roles was explained by economic political reasons and political reasons was accepted by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, so in the case of the Free Dalmatia Box, it rejects the investigative request as unfounded." "Although it is a concrete decision of the court which cannot generalise the position of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in all similar cases," the state lawyer said. And not just that. In 1996, the Supreme Court concluded that it was not about obtaining illegal property benefit in the case of management loans. The attorney's office says, I quote: "A large percentage of acquittals are conditioned by different views on the interpretation of the rules between the State's attorney's office on the one hand and the court on the other hand. The problem is in the non-compliance and non-determination of the rules with emerging socio-economic relations because some did not even contain criminal sanctions. Therefore, such a situation in the legislation has also led to different views in interpreting the rules where the State's Attorney's Office has approached more lives and reality in this interpretation by applying the target interpretation," the statement concluded. So political will and belonging powers have been passed inconsistencies and unsettled regulations. In order to implement the privatisation process in the way it has been implemented and implemented, a judiciary should be created that will not be more life-threatening and realistic, which will not interpret uncoordinated and unsettled regulations that will not access the target interpretation. It is now obvious that this is why in the mid - 1990 ’ s all judges were resolved and there was a mass appointment of new and unexperienced who had neither known nor been able to apply the target interpretation. They stuck to the views of the Supreme Court who gave his clear picture in the case of the Kutla and the Free Dalmatia and management loans. Judges are named for life with a complete, completely inefficient, tight system of responsibility. Although politics swears to the independence of the official, the judicial authorities were certainly involved through the appointment of the State Judiciary Council appointed by the judges for life. And so we got a judiciary that, without applying the target interpretation, does not deal with complicated evidence procedures, leaves cases obsolete or makes a liberating verdict. Of course we are, that's just not enough for privatisation to be done exactly the way it's done. With enormous damage done, with mass job cuts and all without the guilty. The state's attorney's office says, quotes: "The circumstances that have affected so many irregularities are the consequences of the lack of proper control of the entire process of conversion and privatisation, both by the executive bodies and the internal supervision of the Croatian Privatisation Fund," the quote concluded. Note: The Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund since 1.12.1992 established the Croatian Privatisation Fund for the implementation and completion of the privatisation process which was temporarily transferred to the Fund under the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises and which, under other laws and decisions, became the property of the Republic of Croatia and transferred to the Croatian Development Fund, as stated in Article 3 of the Law. Article 4 is replaced by the following: The Fund shall carry out professional and administrative tasks relating to the conversion, privatisation, management of state assets, management of enterprises. In carrying out the activities, he shall cooperate with the competent authorities and institutions of the Republic of Croatia. It would be said that a privatisation system has been established and its controls are being controlled because it must also be controlled to achieve its objectives set out in the Law, and the objectives were faster economic growth, preservation of productive employment, technological modernisation. The objectives have not been achieved. There's been a lot of damage. A number of irregularities and illegalities have been identified, and there are no responsible ones. How could this happen when the Fund was to implement the process and only for the purpose of the law of the stated objective, in cooperation with the competent authorities and institutions of the Republic of Croatia. We will find the answer in the exhibition of the Croatian Privatisation Fund which has been delivered to us and which is the subject of the debate. The Fund says: Most of the irregularities identified by the National Audit Office have nothing to do with the Croatian Privatisation Fund. As an example: Available assets not included in the evaluation and implementation of the development programme. If it wasn't tragic, it would be comical. Well, it's the fund that manages the state property, which manages the companies in which it owns the shares. And invaluable property is state property, and the lack of development programmes does not achieve the objective of privatising faster economic growth, preserving productive employment. In view of its representation in the supervisory committees, it was possible and had to be aware of all forms of irregularities and illegality and in cooperation with other competent authorities and institutions of the Republic of Croatia to prevent them. But it is obvious that he has been in the service of politics and since his draft in '92. the year foresaw the Constitutional Court's decision taken in '99. of the year on the suspension of Article 17 The law on conversion under which the Croatian Privatisation Fund has the right to control in that domain. So it is obvious that for everything that has happened to us in privatisation, a legal framework has been created, and then by intervention in the judicial power, any sanctioning has been disabled by the application of the objective interpretation of the non-compliant and unspecified regulations of the will of political power, which should have been carried out for economic growth and turned into an economic downturn. Partial optimism gives the state's attorney's claim that the damage can be partially resolved through the process of confiscation of illegally acquired assets, of course if it is political will. It is also obvious that at this late hour we are discussing such a significant topic, the political will is gone, so we will see if our conclusion will be accepted which we will suggest precisely to take these actions to try to sanction, to return, to resolve this damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43583	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. He's gone. He's losing his word. We said 10 o'clock, it's 10 o'clock, so we'll continue at 9:30 tomorrow. It is up to the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović, the respected representative of Alenka Košisa Cicin-Sain, Dražan Bosnjaković, etc.. Resume at 9:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43584	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43585	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State. Namely, the curse of privatisation says one of our well-known journalists thrown at HDZ is an irresistible reminder of Eastern sin. The Church removes Eastern sin by baptism, the party did so by assigning membership books, but privatisation is more complex, because privatisation was also attended by many members of the party of the former coalition government and their loved ones. It was all under the same law that, despite the January 3rd promises, had no change, no rhetoric had changed, and possible changes could have stopped the targeted sale of Cavtatic and Dubrovnik hotels, Rijeka Bank, etc. Or perhaps in four years, the coalition government prevailed without idealessness or inability to agree. With the fam's time-out on the invaluable value of privatised companies, it reached unfathomable proportions. It forgets the catastrophic state of the economy at the end of the 1980s, especially the textile industry, let's look for the '88 'Vjesniks.'89. It describes the state of focus of the large industry towards the Soviet Union and partners, overemployment clearly per product unit, in particular administrations where, rarely, one worker in the production came up with 1.2, 1.5 administrators. The picture is complemented by the obsolescence of technology, long-term lagging behind modern production, non-investment in the inventiveness and drowsiness of safe clinical exports. The inevitable opening of the market has caused shock, as cheap goods have begun to arrive, so a good part of our industry has stopped being competitive. The start of the Homeland War coincided with the end of exports to the country of the clinical market and this destroyed large socialist companies. The formula for me Russians produce, those JNA weapons, and on Topcider printing inflatable money and calming workers no longer worked. Privatisation as a prerequisite for the approach of the developed world market had different consequences. Relatively well went the privatisation of parts of the food industry and commercial companies with clear exceptions and poor textile and metal industry. The privatisation syndrome of Russia, the purchase of large companies for mortgage reasons, the withdrawal of money from banks and us were not avoided, and it was supposed to be sanctioned, it's part of it. Often quality privatisation was impossible, as no one bought the company and took on a large number of employees unnecessary for modern production. A good example of this is the lead product factory TOP Kerestinec, later destroyed by joint efforts by administrations, trade unions and employees. The interest of a developed world for rapid entry into transition countries was often accompanied by threats. Let's remember the "Vartex" ultimatum that it will run out of "Levis" license if it does not speed up privatisation. In charge of hotels have lost tourists since the start of the "balvan" revolution. Many have been emigrated by exiles. Debts big, no income, so they became easily preyed on by banks. Nor did foreign capital come to social enterprises. High interest rates due to the war have disabled modernisation and privatisation has been inevitable. The impediment to quality privatisation was also poor evaluations of the company's value, unsettled ownership papers. Let's just remember that the halls were owned by factories and the country was social. Profitability and bonity were relative. By absorbing the conditions of privatisation, privatisation could have gone differently. The money derived from privatisation was held in both the Mirovinski and the Health Fund, invested in rebuilding the war of the destroyed areas, during the war clearly that it funded both war and helped survive for example shipyards, ironworks, etc. The former coalition government received the government's pledges that privatisation participants would be punished. Racan's Government ignored the order of the Parliament from May 2002 to propose within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of amendments, additions or new laws necessary to sanction crime committed in conversion, privatisation, to determine the origin of the money that privatisation was made, etc. By the end of the term, nothing even though the privatisation successes were studied firsthand by flying on a yacht of co-owners of the privatised company "Viktor Lenac", a highly positioned party friend of Vrhnik. The tan government is returning to work by interpreting privatisation as necessary. Today's rhetoric of the opposition reminds an overwhelming reminder of the time before January 3, 2000. But the memory of the inhabitants of Croatia is no use to them. Here we heard yesterday in the debate that the metal union finally found the former justice minister after five, six years of intense search and told her he was upset. For four years, there was no anxiety, so we're worried too. The state-owned audit has agreed, grouped companies according to the privatisation process. As long as it's missed, the shortcomings, the misjudgements, the differences in interpretation can be called crime would be talked. It would be far better to isolate the evidence. Several capitals are in prison, but some long-term procedures are under way to prove illegal privatisation. Four missed years of privatisation accounts have increased the possibility of antiquity. I've been analyzing the list of privatised companies since 3 January 2000. Let's look here by the end of 2003, I don't know to what extent this impressive list of hotels, ports and production companies is in line with statements that privatisation definitely failed. Well, not all hotels were finally supposed to buy Goran Strok. Something else could have done. And finally, every privatized company has passed its specific privatisation path. Thanks to the State Audit, this trip has become known and available. It's a good thing privatisation happened under the same law, so whatever it is, we can't complain that we've affected each other and enjoyed privatisation. I am convinced that this debate will also contribute to transparency and reduce political generalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43586	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43587	Mr. Vice President, I thank you for your word. Very often by my colleagues from the HDZ Club I hear the Rijeka Bank. An example that Mr. Shucker otherwise invented in his opening speech at the Minister's appointment when he even promised one of your councilmen to give complete information from the Rijeka Bank. And you know, the philosophy that you're dealing with is that 100 times the untruth becomes the truth won't work. Indeed, Rijeka Bank is the case of an inappropriate robbery of individuals who misused powers and stock exchanges damaged the Bank of Rijeka for $100m. So, the bank worker, not the politician. But vice versa, my dear gentlemen, the Rijeka Bank is an example of how the executive government or the government of Prime Minister Ivica Racan, the National Bank headed by the governor and the bank association organised to save the Rijeka Bank. Savings that haven't lost a single kuna of their money. A Croatian state which, thanks to its German owner's incompetence, even recorded 20m euros in earnings and the Rijeka Bank, unfortunately, no longer acts as the Rijeka Bank. She's got a new owner, but you're trying to say that politicians have created a crisis in the Rijeka Bank. And instead of judging the criminal behavior of individuals, you only deceive the Croatian public. I must tell you this will not work, because in Croatia it is the only example of quality resolution of the banking crisis. Politics, expertise and supervision from the National Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43588	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43589	Thank you. So I think you're... a script than my colleague Linic talks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I was, I didn't expect my colleague Linic to come forward, and I didn't mention either INU, or Europetroll, its role in Europetroll, the benefit of Europetroll, I didn't mention the River Parking and a whole series of things I might have needed, so there might be other opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43590	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43591	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, for the second time today we hear from each other, that is, in this debate, that the catastrophic state of the 1990s is in the economy, in the early '90s. actually directed this kind of negative conversion and privatisation, which is totally incorrect. But in my replica, I'm actually going to look back on the part that the government didn't respect Parliament's conclusions. After the first report on the revision and conversion of privatisation, the government tasked the ministries to address certain problems, particularly the Ministry of Justice, administration and local self-government, the Ministry of Finance, the economy, the State Office for Audit and the State Attorney's Office. Among other things, the Ministry of Justice should have nominated the Penal Code, then the Implementing Law, the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Banking Law, etc., it took part in such conclusions, and in the Assembly we discussed and adopted amendments to those laws. The fact is that the Penal Code wasn't passed by qualified majority, and in the Constitutional Court it was horrified precisely because your party requested an assessment of the constitutionality. In two years you could have gotten the strength to change the Penal Code in that sense and you'd have our support unlike when you were an opposition we didn't have your support for amending the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43592	Replication response, respected representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43593	Thank you. Well, maybe it's the guilt not only of me but of all of us who repeated it yesterday to read as it says. So, the Parliament gave the order to the government, the government did not execute the order. Now, we're asking why she didn't do it? I wouldn't need details. Was the government not able, whether made up of a strange coalition did not actually respect some kind of government unity, and what happened was that the government did not do what the Parliament asked of it. In other words, she ignored, completely ignored the order of the Parliament. And switching to another time, maybe another viewing of each other is the cause of it, but I'm not sure you could have done far more, a team before because privatisation was much closer to you than 4 years after that to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43594	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43595	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected rapporteurs. The Croatian Fund’s observation cannot be considered relevant in any case, since the Fund did not establish inflation and did not, as a good master, carry out either the revaluation of the value of companies and shares, but did not favour customers in such a way as to resupply the shares and values of companies, thereby causing irreparable damage not to the name of the State of Assets. The example works, a company that was estimated to be one million German marks by inflation for just a month in '92. and '93. and up to 65% of the monthly value of the company fell 65% of the value, and the state as owner lost in these transactions by making a contract with a delay clause with an enormous amount of money. In its report, the audit did not show how much losses the inflation had suffered. The procedures referred to in the report do not correspond to the right proportions of acts committed to the damage of the State in the future, the State Attorney's Office must make a calculation of the direct and indirect damage caused by such behaviour of the Privatisation Fund in order to be able to quantify the damage done and to qualify the actions carried out. Based on the above, the payments listed in the Croatian Privatisation Fund's report do not, in any event, correspond to the value of the basic value of the state property, i.e. the total value of the undertaking that would be the subject of conversion and privatisation, which shows a huge disproportionateness between the poor conversion of assets and the amount of funds charged to those undertakings. The revision data and the Croatian Privatisation Fund's indication suggest that the cancellation of conversion and privatisation is inevitable, because according to the Law on Mandatory Relations, the cancellation of transactions with a paid price below half the value, i.e. in short or disproportionately over half, is the basis for repealing every legal job and there is no statute of limitations. As for the State's Attorney's Office's report. The conclusion under regular number 4. The Croatian Parliament of 29 May 2002 is obliged by the State Attorney's Office to submit within 30 days a report to the Croatian Assembly on the initiation of criminal offences in the conversion and privatisation on the basis of applications submitted, but also on official duty, and on applications submitted by the State Attorney's Office on Abuses and Counter-laws in the process of conversion and privatisation. On 22 July 2005, the State Attorney's Office provided a flat-rate assessment of the legal issues related to the issue of conversion and privatisation, which cited legal qualifications for the illegal action of the responsible persons in the conversion of businesses, without the essence of the conversion, which is a damage caused by the owner, the state and shareholders, future owners. The report, which is late 3 years, shows that it was done on a quick and unilateral basis, neither in any segment, nor in a professionality in which no criminal offences are indicated, nor in responsibility for the enormous damage caused between the initial established value, the value sold, which is inadmissible from any aspect. The State Attorney's Office is bound by the Law to protect state property and conduct proceedings on behalf of the State. The State Attorney's Office had to establish on the basis of the State Audit report, the Croatian Privatisation Fund's report in all sales in such a way that the initial basis of the total estimated state assets related to the basket of European currencies was increased for inflation. Thus, the established basis for assessing the conversion and privatisation indicates a compensateable loss at national level, which in war conditions led to a decline in the value of the national gross social product and a loss of cca 450 thousand jobs, and according to this and earlier reports, there is still no culprit. Acting on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on 13 April 2004, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia submitted its report in which the State's Attorney's Office was processed in criminal cases related to criminal offences in the conversion of privatisation. During the period from the start of the application of the Revision, Conversion and Privatisation Act until September 2004 on the basis of applications submitted and reports to the State Office, the audit covered a thousand 556 former social enterprises and the work on cases for criminal charges received under official duty. By reading this report it is clear that it is about naked statistics, statistics is almost devastating. According to the report, the State Office has filed 71 formal criminal charges, 107 reports stating that there is a reasonable doubt about the action taken that has the character of a criminal offence. So a total of 178 objects. Strangely, a small number, since it is widely known how and how conversion and privatisation have been carried out. Of the 178 cases according to the State Audit Office's findings, 11.4% of the cases were found to be illegal and criminal charges were filed in all 4.6% of the cases. The state's attorney's office solved 54% of the cases by rejecting them due to an ageing 48.5% of the cases. The charges have been filed in 11 cases for the application and 7 for the report, and so far the courts have handed down four convictions and two suspended and two fines. It's really hard to justify. And I don't want to go any further. What does this report indicate? Is it not dust in the eyes especially for those who are directly affected by conversion and privatisation and who expect to finally stop writing statistics in this country, stop giving false hopes and start all forces and finally work out the rule of law? It is regrettable to conclude that the State Attorney's Office has not taken everything in their jurisdiction, that there are no positive shifts in solving this complex and sensitive problem. We listen to the same thing all the time: we do not have specialized professional staff, this complex problem requires good knowledge not only of legal issues and economic crime but also of special knowledge in the field of civil and commercial law, the Law on privatisation, the Law on Conversion, the laws are missing and unarranged. And so constantly, time goes by, some get rich, and citizens are rightly dissatisfied. Here we must point out that the conversion and privatisation that took place from 92th to 99th some in our society have been characterized as a sin of structure. We heard that yesterday. But it's not such a bad saying. The consequences of this procedure are becoming more and more obvious. There have been suffocating and shutting down numerous companies and bringing them down to the value of real estate, which is inadmissible. There, political, friendly, and related alike appeared, leading to massive bankruptcy and an increase in the number of unemployed. Some have become rich, and society in general has impoverished, resulting in the decomposition and disappearance of the middle class of citizens. She showed up, so-called. tycoon privatisation, which led to the fact that the main model of production became trade and imports instead of the development of production and exports. But I must stress that wealth is not what hurts our citizens the most and what they are most bitter about. It's not about 200 families we keep talking about, how it's often qualified. People are not desperate for these 200 families, people are more desperate for those other families that pass those 200, and they have failed to privatize in a way that these companies have recovered even if they have become rich. I must stress that between 2000 and 2003 there was a certain stagnation of negative privatisation processes although it was only a short break in the transfer of social wealth to the hands of individuals. Unfortunately, this period, in particular during the first year of the term of office, has been marked by numerous often unwarranted bankruptcys that have not led to the expected recovery of the company but rather to the final liquidation of the activity, which is ultimately crowned by the investment sale of real estate. The last two years have been colored with individual affairs, since the public call for the purchase of "Sun Hvar" or by the discussion of the competition for the continuation of highways or transparency in selecting a new telecommunication partner, operator, "Tele 2" case that certainly did not contribute to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia in Europe as well as the cases of "Zupljanska Sladorane", sales "Promala" and finally what we are talking about in recent months, selling "Liburnia" within 4 days in August. The attempt so far and a number of good intentions, including the coalition government's conclusion to correct it, have not produced good results, however, which does not release this government from committing these in some way and implementing them. The Croatian National Bank report is also insufficient, incorrect and does not maintain the essence of the situation. The transformation of banks in Croatia as well as the entire civilised world was carried out according to the laws they passed, I did not see that red light was brought to us by the Croatian Parliament and outside parliaments. What the banks would just like to point out, that this may be the biggest tragedy that has happened in Croatia, that the complete financial market in 97 or 96% is owned by foreign capital, that through banks are practically purchased properties and that Croatia is almost colonized in this way. We have three banks left in our possession: Post Office Bank, Croatian Bank and HABOR. I am sorry that the budgets of large units of local self-government such as Zagreb, where there is 10 billion 15% of the state budget do not go through these banks but payouts go right through the Zagreb Bank or through the Business Bank owned by foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43596	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43597	Thank you, Mr. President. It is an incorrect statement that individuals have become rich, and society in general has become poor. I'm glad that individuals have made a fair fortune with their work and ability and should be congratulated, and society has become very rich in what the macroeconomic indicators are saying about increasing the exports of the gross social product, increasing the budget from the funds, of course from income and everything else, and I don't have time to do it, as well as our ordinary civil purchase of cars, mobiles, business of good trade chains that opened up in the meantime. So it's all about one bigger income from the population and so to speak for a better life and a better standard. There's this flossula about some of them being very poor, and some of them being very rich should stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43598	Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43599	Thank you very much. The Honorable Madam Prosecution said the State's Attorney's Office didn't work very well because there are only 4.6% of the crimes. The state's attorney's office worked very well, this is what this report shows, it's from yesterday's state's attorney's appearance, and what we wanted to prove here is that 90% of the crimes turned out to be 4% and that billions were ruined and it turned out to be just a couple of million, it's not a State's Attorney's fault, it's a matter of truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43600	Thank you. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43601	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's yesterday we've actually been listening to about privatisation, words like robbery, kidnapping, grabbing, who's bailing, some bullet to some property, the loss of 400 thousand jobs, and I have to admit that it's really very depressing and a man when he hears it all together, he's actually asking himself first, is it even possible that we survived somehow all the events that were in the '90s, is it even possible how that country survived and how that country was built? It just doesn't really work out with each other. Because we still can't ignore that at the years when this privatisation and conversion process was carried out, although we did build a state with all its institutions and if it were true that, but everything was robbed planically, organized, then I don't know how we built not only but also promoted that state, how we created its institutions, how we took care of 500 thousand exiles and refugees. Indeed, these facts, when we put them in proportion to one another, do not simply go. The law here was about privatization, that it was just purposely designed to enable such a robbery to allow someone to have, to have no one. And then I wonder why that same law, then in 2000, didn't replace the same day. How come in four years when we had a chance when there was another option in this House and in this state in power, how come we didn't get another law then? That law is still in force today. Also, if it's all a robbery, and here we have the State Audit report, where we see that the audit is done, it means surveillance in a thousand and 500 and 500 subjects, and the result is 70 and some criminal charges. Now, can that come from a robbery like that? I don't think those facts when we put them in proportion to each other just don't stand. Also, as to the fact that 400,000 jobs have been lost, I don't think that stands. This was about everything, whether it had an impact on the economy that was before 90, whether it was about conversion and privatisation. Well, I think, of course, that it did, it had to have an impact. Because we need to understand that privatization and conversion is not a mere purchase of companies, but that it's actually a process where certain things change, certain laws. Well, if we remember 90 years ago what kind of economy we were, what kind of market we had, we had a closed economy without competition, without a market economy. We had one planned state economy where our companies, our companies, didn't do business on economic principles. We know how many people were just more employees in these societies. Whoever came and negotiated to buy some kind of company offered him contracts at the Privatisation Fund for which he had to keep his jobs for a number of years. Of course, the state wanted no unemployment, no layoffs, but economic criteria, economic logic is completely different. If someone buys a company, he wants to make a profit, and there is no profit if there is extra labour and if the costs are increased. These were undoubtedly our problems that we really inherited from the 1990s. Also in the State Audit Report, there is one part relating to the circumstances under which the conversion and privatisation took place. This part, of course, has not been overly potent, but it clearly states in which the conditions and circumstances of conversion and privatisation that have significantly affected the reduction of the number of employees and the value of capital and the business of these companies were carried out. These are war circumstances. Because it's not the same conversion done during the war, and it's not the same conversion done today. To be successful requires a series of elements, a set of conditions is needed. But what matters most to me is that there are good entities that are offered in this transformed market. So companies, companies that have as many business futures as they can do in the future. It also takes those others, those who are interested, who have capital. Also good laws so that all together would have one normal framework and one good business environment. That's four of the most important elements to me. Now if we look back in the '90s, did we have it? Let's estimate what kind of companies we've had, devastated by bad technology. Of course, it didn't invest because we didn't have any competition on the outside. We were one closed market, we had a de facto more devastated than good businesses. Did we have good managers, did we have good interested entities to buy it? Well, no, that's not what it was. Good laws, we've already said a lot about them. Whether they could have been like this or not, that's the question, but I think a debate like this can certainly hurt those who have actually spent good and quality and who have bought and acquired the same property in conversion and privatisation. I mean, if we were to do a survey and ask people, I don't know, in one Lou, Agrodor, Frank, Kras, I think we'd come up with a different answer than this debate we've been listening to. There were also words here that we missed some things in criminal law and therefore they can partly agree, but only in that part that when we were bringing them, that means, in the 1990s, the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, he was bringing himself probably with the best intentions. And it was hard to predict all those deviant behaviors that would happen on the market and in life, and it was difficult then at that point to predict some criminal provisions. But now we're making changes to the Penal Code, and now they're bringing more severe penalties that will result in an increased period of limitation, and I don't think that makes any sense because we can't do it backwards, retroactively. It can only be worth the pro future. And what I'm saying is, last year, if we remember, we brought a credible interpretation of the Penal Code. Because the State's Attorney's Office initiated a procedure of credible interpretation with the government because we also met here with one fact that our courts did not quite objectively interpret some laws and we showed some dissatisfaction with their work. You know, we've had a series of charges dropped in terms of interpretation and qualification of only one term of "social property". The courts under the term "social property" understood exclusively social property that you in practice don't have anymore. Because we have brought one by me a correct position that social property is property of an entire society, regardless of the holder of that property. And that is why we have made it possible for those who have sinned against the law to be sanctioned in the ongoing processes. So I don't think that thing just stands. What I said and at the point before, I think we need to concentrate more on that civilian, on that civic part, to try everything that's unconstitutional, everything that's immoral, everything that's illegal in the civil proceedings of establishing such contracts as nothing, try to actually get things back to square one. Because it's the only way we don't actually get into a problem of old age. And as far as I can tell, there's only one thing about Liburnia. A truly great, great, great media attention has been given around Lebanon. The Deputy Prime Minister Polancec spoke quite exhaustively about it yesterday and I don't know if we are, we are now as far as I understand in that one case of Liburni's only actually one segment in solving one problem. I don't know, we'd have to calculate, if we're now out of a peaceful arrangement with fund representatives, we're back to square one. But as far as I understand it, the state is also being sued for shares, and the state is being sued for lost earnings. And do we have an estimate of how much that's gonna cost us in the end? Can we come to some assessment of success in this dispute? It may happen to us that we're going to return what you said, those shares, and that tomorrow we're actually going to pay maybe more than they're worth. And then actually who's right about that? Because in that trial, in that four-year arbitration, you said there was an increase in interest of half a billion kuna. Half a billion interest. We're not talking about court expenses yet, we're not talking about lost earnings, interest on lost earnings. These are actually things that I think need to be dealt with rationally, without temperature, without creating an affair, without creating pressure. Because we're actually paying directly all taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43602	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the 30th ceases to apply this Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, as well as the Regulation. They should therefore vote on the Government's proposal for a law on the power of the Government to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section, the Law amending the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation and the Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Contract for a project of social and economic recovery between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. According to the number of people reported for this topic, about 16 hours would likely end the debate, but the debate on amending the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation has ended and I ask the presidents of the Clubs of Representatives to ensure the presence of representatives at 16 o'clock to vote on these 3 laws. We'll discuss the conclusions of this debate later. Let's count on us to work without a break. We have five replicas. First, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43603	Mr. President, dear colleague, we have received a State Audit Report which is very explicit in listing the negativity of the conversion and privatisation procedures, over 93% of the cases investigated, neither is it legal, nor is it correct, nor is it in line with the contracts signed between the Fund and those involved in the conversion and privatisation. And very clearly 390,000 lost jobs when we observe the contracts they gave and signed that entered the conversion and privatisation processes, not that they said they would reduce the number of employees but were talking about consolidation, they talked about restructuring and increasing the number of employees. And breaking contract clauses is still something we have to say has no excuse. And of course let's not forget 400 thousand jobs and an increase in the number of pensioners, young pensioners who charge and pension funds, all of which we could say are 800 thousand jobs, that's what we'll never understand, for you a irrelevant data, for you such an irrelevant data, you don't feel at all the need to say that there's no justification for such damage, a damage that none of us have invented, which we don't talk about at the bar, but it's very clear from the state audit documents. It's a data that needs to be concerned and we need to try to find solutions, if illegally 800,000 jobs are lost, illegal procedures, non-compliance with contracts, deception, then it's a job in this House to try to find a solution. It's up to us, but of course we're different in that, you don't need solutions, you didn't need audits, and we're under the responsibility of finding a solution in the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43604	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43605	I really disagreed with that, I did not say that we needed 400,000 jobs, I just said that the question of the economic justification of those 400,000 jobs, they were based on another economic system that was not based on economic principles. You know. So everyone who came to buy a company, they looked at the number of employees and said there was no profit, there was simply no profit. It's not that we don't have a sense of it. In the end I even offered a solution, I said I should go to the establishment of the futility of such contracts, if there are such contracts. It's a matter of state bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43606	Another replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43607	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, the whole absurd is that they gave the Parliament a formal approach to the problem of conversion and privatisation, so you even formalized this formal approach by saying that social property was everyone, and it traded abroad and transferred to the property of foreign companies what it sold. The second problem, in essence, let's discuss who made the political decision and who prepared to sell Croatian banks, can be said in a 100% amount to foreigners, in a way, if this information were added that the old foreign currency savings of 5.5 billion were recovered, it would turn out that we sold the banks and earned minus 20 billion kuna. Let's discuss it, not how long the state's attorney filed a report under the laws he's passed, he couldn't handle anything. That's the problem. The other problem is that you're in conflict with your own government's assessment. The law amending and supplementing the law on conversion says no economic goals have been achieved. It was only achieved that some were satisfied with the privatisation because they became owners of social capital. That's the problem. Let's face it, could one lawyer or two have filed criminal charges, which we're interested in if he's been doing according to the law, at this point in time, which means something to us. Banks are gone, 20 billion kunas must be paid by a Croatian citizen who has been deprived of both property and labour rights. That's the point. Let's discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43608	Third replica, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43609	Dear Bošnjaković, you are doing in your presentation a logical mistake called pars pro toto you from the part conclude the whole. When do you make that mistake? When you say that conversion and privatisation is the fault of privatisation law and you wonder why we didn't change it immediately in 2000. You see, the law is just one of the necessary elements for the elaborate, organized robbery that happened. It took a whole series of other operational matters to achieve this, to amend the criminal law in order to avoid persecution, to set up a state prosecutor who would not go after him, and where he should have been. It was supposed to get rid of a court of high-quality and honest judges and bring incompetent but obedient ones. It was meant to lead the banks of loyal people who would give loans that no one would repay, to the head of the Fund to bring people who did not undo the conversions even though they had the power to cancel them, and the reason to undo them. But first of all, it was necessary to make a political decision to do all of this together, so it was necessary to devise a robbery, formulate a plan to make it happen and implement the plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43610	Replica response, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43611	I didn't say the Privatisation Act was bad at all, I said you said it because yesterday you said that this Law was bad and that this Law was deliberately made and brought in to make that robbery possible. I only doubted your thesis. If this law is so bad, and if in 2000 you got a chance to settle it, I must say when you would ask the Croatian public everyone expected perhaps the first day of 2000 to pass the second Privatisation Act. If this is not done means that this Law is not bad, they are probably bad practices under that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43612	The fourth replica is a respected representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43613	Mr. President, we hear here several times today that the loss of jobs that followed in the 1990s is not the result of privatisation, and it is relatively relatively that there have been other problems why there has been an objective reduction in the number of jobs. I don't think that's supposed to be relativated. The fact is that the loss of jobs has largely or largely occurred because of an unacceptablely poor privatisation model. Please, the extra workers said it was, so there had to be a loss of those workers. The market was closed, Croatia exported to clearing. Please, Croatia, for example Zagreb had a company Unity, Prvomajska, TPK, Končar with an institute of 300 people. These companies have been exporting and working around the world. We in Croatia today have achieved the level of exports to Europe that we then had. So do you know what you're talking about and whether you know the facts? Croatia was then for countries such as the Czech Republic, Hungary and other Europe. They are for us today, Europe. We studied outside, our companies in the world had their own representations and big jobs. We were not an inefficient Hungarian and Russian economy in the 1990s. Those jobs shouldn't have been lost. They were lost, however, to the greatest extent due to poor policy, especially privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43614	Replica response, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43615	A fellow Churchman, we all remember that in the late 1990s, strikes began. We all remember very well what it came for. Because of the fact that in these companies, people who were not all worked for because they were led not by the principles of the market economy but by some state-owned political economy. You know, when the private comes, he can't stand at a company to have 500 people direct and administer him and 500 to be in their production. Well, let's not say it wasn't before 90. This was simply so, and those places from an economic point of view were unsustainable. So if you were the owner of the company and if you came to buy it you'd first see which directors and what costs that company has, whether you have an interest in earning or not. So that system didn't go violently before 90th, but because people had lost their jobs but also within that system and were left without pay within the same system, and that's why they chose something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43616	And the fifth replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43617	Thank you, Mr. President. I expected from both you and your colleagues that after this repeated debate, which has already been discussed several times in the Assembly, you would say how to resolve the consequences. In fact, I'm surprised by your statement that today you bring more severe sentences and longer deadlines out of date that it's unacceptable I'm really surprised by you as a respected lawyer. The audit in his report doesn't talk about bad law. The audit says that in 93% of the cases that have been audited have violated the law while the State's Attorney's Office says there have been no sanctioned sanctions or that due to the short deadlines, most of them have become obsolete. And as for the efficiency of employment and that these 386 thousand jobs are not a consequence, lost jobs are not the result of conversion and privatisation. Read the conclusions of the review. She says out of a thousand 556 audited entities, most have not achieved a development programme. And he says, according to data from the development programmes for a thousand 556 audited entities 106 social enterprises have shown an surplus of 23,000 882 employees and 386 thousand jobs have disappeared. And he says, and 307 social enterprises said in their programme that he had outdated equipment and technology. Most of them said she was going into recapitalisation. You can see from the State Audit report how the recapitalisation was done. However, in the greatest part, this is due to the poor conversion and privatisation and non-control of these processes, even under the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, despite the fact that there was no Revision Act, this could have been controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43618	Reply to the replica, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43619	My colleagues, Zgrebec, if the harsher sentences and if we even nominate new crimes that would be specific to conversion and privatisation, if that solves the problem, I would be the first to bring them now. But we know very well, and the State's Attorney's Office knows we can't retroactively apply it. What we bring now is worth pro futuro because the law applies to the perpetrators when it was valid at the time the work was done. That's what I'm talking about. It's not a formal approach. And I repeat exactly that. When we could do something and it was a credible interpretation of the law we weren't for that credible interpretation. You weren't up for it. You didn't support it. Well, we'll be able to sanction certain acts that have been committed according to the property, regardless of its owner's ownership. As far as these jobs are concerned, I really don't know how much more to repeat. I'm not saying that there have been no irregularities, but all irregularities are not robbery, they're not kidnapping and they're not criminal acts and it's actually seen from the State Audit report. It's not all robbery and it's not all kidnapping because if it were all like that, we wouldn't be sitting here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43620	Thank you. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43621	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honourable rapporteurs! So I'm going to focus my debate on the front row and concentrate on the State's Attorney's Office's report. In fact, the report on the work of state attorneys on criminal cases in connection with conversion and privatisation does indeed give, in a professional and factual sense, a real picture of the situation of things related to the problem of prosecution and criminal actions done in the processes of conversion and privatisation in the Republic of Croatia. This Report is a professionally drawn document methodologically set up and I would dare say that its analysis outlines what really, indeed, has happened in these processes and is happening when we talk about criminal justice issues, the problems of specific crimes committed or criminal liability. The following elements should be highlighted in the report itself. Therefore, the number of processed entities in the context of the work of state lawyers and according to the reports and reports of the State Audit Office amounts to a total of a thousand 556. Therefore, a thousand 556 companies or companies examined or processed. The State Audit Office itself has established, on the basis of the examination carried out, that there are grounds for doubting that a criminal offence has been committed, with a total of 178 applications and reports, so 11.4% of which in 4,56% of cases or legal persons examined have established the existence of grounds of suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed which corresponds to the figures of 71 of the criminal application submitted. The second element to be singled out is that, in terms of conduct, it is necessary to distinguish when the State Audit Office submits a formal criminal application and when it only submits a report stating that there are basic doubts about the conduct of criminal offences. In fact, the way the state's attorneyship is handled is really different, in those situations where criminal charges are filed from those when the report is mentioned above. The analysis of the offences committed in relation to the emerging forms of illegal actions by application and the reports of the State Audit Office points to the conclusion that the dominant illegal actions were in the area of the sale of assets that did not enter the underlying capital of a legal person, then the conversion of unfounded persons sought in the share of companies or companies themselves, the illegal treatment in the assessment of social capital, the use of discounts in the transfer of unpaid shares, the financing and lending of shares by the company itself, and the conduct of the Transport Act on Securities and the takeover of companies. Where the above is due to specific criminal offences, it is apparent that criminal offences are therefore, abuse of powers in economic business, not conscientious work in the service, violation of Article 104. Securities law, unconscious economic business and under the 5th conclusion of harmful contracts. So, it's about the total number of crimes that we mean and when we talk about, we say to ourselves under the syntagma of economic crime, and the number of cases processed is 178 of which the rejected criminal charges resulted in 48.5% of the cases, and mostly due to the statute of limitations and here I would stop, and so the limitation occurred not in terms of the conduct of the state's attorneys, but at the moment of submission or the procession, these elements of limitations were achieved. The indictment came in 18 cases or 10.1%. Investigations followed 23% of cases, the withdrawal of criminal prosecution followed 4.5% of cases, and the course was findings or findings in 52 cases of 30.9%. The information that, following a review of 1556 subjects, 71 applications and 107 reports above were submitted and what is found to be a finding in this State Attorney's Office report, only the state's attorney's office as an institution and neither was the professional public surprised. For what? And on this occasion, it should be pointed out that criminal responsibility exists only in case there is a reasonable doubt that the punishment... a in all cases of criminal law, including in which it is analysed, it is indeed necessary to distinguish those proceedings and actions which constitute elements of the criminal act from other illegalities, other irregularities or immoral practices that do not go, do not indeed go, or do not fall under criminal repression. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should also be pointed out, it should also be agreed and it is also pointed out in this report that the time period and circumstances that have favoured a large number of irregularities in the process of conversion and privatisation, and as such are repeated in the reports of the State Office for Audit, are the consequence of not only the presented situation that we see from the State Attorney's Office's work reports, but the following relationship should be seen in general. Therefore, there is neither the existence and non-compliance of legal regulatory and appropriate criminal provisions, nor does there be adequate control of the entire process of conversion and privatisation, which, on the one hand, refers to the administrative oversight of the executive authority and, on the other hand, to the internal supervision of the Authority of the Privatisation Fund. Furthermore, a large number of state-owned law enforcement actions in relation to or conduct in relation to specific cases that point to and indeed point to the extensive work of the State's attorney, police and other state bodies, however, a picture has been created in the public that the authorities of the detection and prosecution of criminal offences do not take whatever is in their jurisdiction especially when it comes to significant proceedings, with great property damage and benefits. I will conclude this presentation by quoting Dr. Zeljko Horvatic as a point of discussion and a report submitted by the Justice Committee that was the other day. After a comprehensive comprehensive analysis and a sub-structured report, I recorded his next sentence. Penalties with corrective elements in the process of conversion and privatisation were indeed in Croatia and much more than Croatia deserves. However, the crimes with these elements in Croatia are indeed much less than presented to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43622	Thank you. Answer, pardon, replica, esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43623	Dear counterpart Emil Tomljanovic tried to give a full picture of conversion and privatisation through a criminal legal prism. It's just not possible. This image lacks financial element, social element, moral element, developmental element as it pointed out the conversion of privatisation, and we are discussing it and the most important political element, who designed the privatisation, listen to me, who designed the privatisation, who made it possible to privatise in Croatian way, and finally add who led to the fact that it was only a small number of people, but a large size of citizens is unhappy with Croatia in privatisation because it had no property, no job and no influence, even a little longer, will remain without perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43624	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43625	My dear colleague, Leckie, I'd like to replicate it the following way. Politicalize, we can politicize at the end of the line and this High House is a political body. However, if you want to politicise about the state's attorney's report, if you want to politicise about data, if you want to politicise about the state of affairs, that's your problem, and I'm really glad that the Croatian public heard it. All of what I said, I said directly, stating the facts and information given to us by the state's attorney's office in its obvious, i.e. the report to the Croatian Parliament. In any case, this problem has its own political dimension, but that's why we have a problem when professional issues arise, professional analyses or adjudicated reports from the professional institutions of this country and there is no politicisation, the figures are what they are, someone may be wrong, someone may be right, but they are really who they are. And then there's no place for politicization, in criminal law, politics, criminal policy, which is a crime when it was committed. So are we really going to politicize the institutes of retroactive application of the provisions of the material criminal law? Is that what we're going to politicize about? Well, then let's get out of law school. Which is why we've been torturing students for years to prepare these exams and learn these... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This has nothing to do with the politics of my colleague, Leko, and I'm really glad you mentioned that term. There's not a lot of people who can politicize that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43626	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43627	... I think of the following reports that relevant bodies and services have made and one of the most important actually the difference that we often change in the course of the debate so far. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Irregularity. A very comprehensive indication of the Croatian Privatisation Fund on the State Audit Office's report on the revision of the conversion and privatisation carried out and the report on the procedures and actions undertaken, data on cash payments for the purchase of shares and the share of this issue of consent for the acquisition of assets is a very thorough material. Very exhausted. From it can you conclude really the real state of what the Croatian Privatisation Fund was doing? Under what laws and regulations did he make decisions? And in fact, the proposal and the direction of this honorable House to make more responsible approaches to creating and proposing future laws and regulations because it is constantly strong in the past and to watch what was 15 years ago, 20 years ago, 50 cannot drag us anywhere but only in discussions can we sharpen attitudes, and no effective and practical step can we take. What I would also particularly point out is in, from this obvious to what was happening in the reality and responsibilities of the management of individual companies at the time. What does he want to say now? Is this report thorough? Yes, it is. What's that for? In order for the rest of us to meet and to finally and deny each other, once and for all, it was not an impoverishment that was made on the basis of the decisions implemented so far. Not all Croatian citizens were owners of everything and everything. They weren't rich, but we can really say that increased responsibility, expertise must take place now. It is therefore particularly important to say what is being done in the report on the work of state attorneys on criminal cases in connection with conversion and privatisation. And again, I point out that the revision determines irregularities, not illegalities. Whether or not this irregularity will be indeed and illegal is determined by the relevant bodies, and ultimately by the court. Therefore, all we can say about criminal acts is that we cannot accept them, and therefore when we talk about this State's Attorney's Office report, we can say that it is indeed thorough. That it can't be said that the court and the judge, individual courts are chosen without being able. It can't be said that they listened to someone's orders because it's impossible to access it with such an idea of a report by individual state bodies, in this case state lawyers, especially in criminal cases in connection with conversion and privatisation. The State Attorney's Office has fully processed the criminal applications of the State Audit Office in the process of conversion and privatisation. It gave an overview of the cases carried out between 1991 and 2005, where the applicants are criminal applicants, police and other state bodies of natural and legal persons. The report shows very thoroughly that 54% of the cases were resolved by rejection. Of that 48.5% due to an old-fashioned persecution that occurred prior to the State's Attorney's office's application. 18 people have been charged, and the courts have reached four verdicts. Such results can indeed be said to have not met public expectations in the process of conversion and privatisation. But it is up to us to restore our thorough approaches to the whole system that we must all build together and responsibly. Analyzing this report and listening to some reporters yesterday, we can appreciate the state's attorney's argument that the largest number of cases of staunch persecution occurred before reporting to the State's Attorney's office. That certain elements had been affected by such a condition. And the limitation deadlines from the then adopted federal regulations, and also to stress that events in conversion and privatisation are the result of a social situation and a series of specificities. I would also say that given the large number of acquittals in this particular case of the percentage of acquittals in relation to the number of defendants in other criminal offences, this data suggests that the judicial system should work on harmonising judicial practice and harmonising the criminal justice system into one whole. That's what directs our forces in the future. In any event, the report of the Croatian National Bank on the process of setting up or transforming banks into a limited liability company or limited liability companies carried out under the Law on Banks and other financial organisations for each bank individually and changing the ownership structure of those banks explicitly state what difficulties have been made and that one thorough system can be rebuilt on the basis of specific ownership. No social property that was neither mine nor yours nor anything but simply was a limiting factor precisely in the fundamental freedoms of man and citizen to have private property. To take care of him, to take care of him, and to make him available. We're not happy with banks, of course, because banks in no system are good if we're in too much debt. But from this thorough report, data is useful to remind us of the direction we want our banking system. What kind of environment we want to develop economically. Are we really by the fact that the banks have become private property, which has become private property by large companies, whether we, like this largest home, can exculpate ourselves from the responsibility not to work permanently in harmonising laws and regulations that need to be followed by modern technologies? Which should follow our future development, but it is the responsibility that depends exactly on what direction we are going to go. The State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation, of course, has done its job and I believe we will never again be in a position to resuscitate any bank. And then I was against getting rid of our banks down in Dalmatia, and Split and Dubrovnik because it's available with taxpayers' money at the expense of something that was later sold and on account, we saw a bad credit policy of these banks. I was against it. I'm against any bank being rehabilitated at all. If it cannot survive on the market then it should simply execute bankruptcy and everything other companies are waiting for or an individual if they are in credit. He had a mortgage on the apartment, the house, the boat, so let's let it all go, not that we and taxpayers' money are solving something we weren't involved in and why we're not sure. Certainly, I would say that the execution of the Croatian Parliament's conclusions since 29 May 2002, that it was worth it to implement those conclusions. It was given concrete reasons, suggestions and deadlines, and if it was set and this House reached any conclusion, then the relevant body should implement it. And I believe that it will not happen to us, this assembly of Parliament, that we have made a decision and a conclusion without the relevant body having implemented it. Because it's simply how we put order into what we can introduce, strengthen responsibility, and approach each one of us in a way that is responsible for the individual decision we have made in this honorable House. I believe we will focus on the future. We've had enough of the stratified past 15 years ago, 50 years ago and we're wasting our energy without end and end instead of watching what we're doing today, what we're doing tomorrow to make us all happy and happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43628	Thank you very much. Two corrections and six replicas. First correction by the respected representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43629	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it is incorrect that the Croatian Privatisation Fund gave us a very precise report. They only included the final report, i.e. the final report of the State Office, for 287 companies. There's nothing about the coupon privatisation where the biggest irregularities were observed, no more responsibility of the fund's head, nothing about the arbitrations that the fund ran. We can only say that they did not even show that the State's Attorney's office also found that the fund's leaders were reported because of the unconscious conduct of harmful contracts, the failure of due diligence in privatisation, that they were identified by the exchange of shares that they were referred to, that these were harmful contracts, that there was damage to the holders of these shares, so the victims of the Homeland War. However, since the replacements in some cases preceded the relevant decisions of the executive authority, it is an unequivocal criminal, doubtful criminal liability. Not a word of this in the Privatisation Fund's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43630	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43631	Yes, the esteemed representative said the bank shouldn't have been rehabilitated. On the contrary. The banks were supposed to be rehabilitated. What about the savings that have over 100,000 kunas or those at that time that had over 30,000 kunas...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43632	You're not correcting an incorrect quote, but you're giving your own opinion to colleague Cain. My friend Cain, thank you very much. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Milanka Opačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43633	Well, Mr. Krono Peronja says this report actually denied that poverty did not arise in privatisation. I don't know, obviously we're at war with facts and common sense, and obviously that's the fundamental difference between you and us, because HDZ has been resisting the adoption of the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation for 10 years. Fortunately, the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation has shown everything that workers and unions and individual parties have been saying for 10 years, and that in privatisation happens a great thief, because on the one hand jobs disappear, and that on the other hand only individuals are rich. The fact from this report of the State Audit Office shows that 400,000 jobs have disappeared in Croatia in the process of conversion and privatisation. For someone small, someone is not subject to poverty. For us in the SDP, a very big thing and the destruction of the good part of the economy, but 400,000 human fates that have run out of future and no jobs. Also, this report showed that the conversion into the Croatian economy disappeared neither less than 5 billion marks of lost capital. So that's no argument for impoverishing this country either. And in the end, all these reports we had in front of us yesterday and today show that there were too many opportunities in this country to deal with fraud in privatisation and that there was not enough political will. She's not here today to deal with thieves from conversion and privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43634	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43635	Here, I'll just remind my colleague what she said in 2002. I'm not going to say it because I think a lot of jobs have been lost, but I also think that jobs have been lost not only because of privatisation and conversion, but also because of some other circumstances due to the loss of the market, some other objective circumstances that have ruled the market itself. Therefore, I think that we should be far more relaxed and responsible in the discussion of what the colleague really was. But I'll remind you that we can't and can't repeat why the conclusions of May 29, 2002 didn't work out, so I'll also read them to remind ourselves of the conclusions. The report on the work on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation, the report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out, is hereby adopted. The State Audit Office undertakes Then I'll do something more important. [[Intruder President: You won't be able to read all the conclusions!]] There's a lot of them. It undertakes the Government to propose within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of amendments and additions or new laws necessary to sanction crime committed in the conversion and privatisation, i.e. the protection of the economic and other public interest of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the conversion and privatisation that will allow the perpetrators of illegal actions during the privatisation process to be fair and lawfully processed, sanctioned. The Government, the Republic of Croatia, the State Attorney's Office is also in charge of creating conditions for quality work from the competences established by the Constitution, etc. I think this shows why these conclusions were to be carried out and made, and I believe that this House will not miss that its conclusions are being carried out no matter who will execute them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43636	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43637	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I am, in fact, appalled by the thesis of my colleague Peronja that the Split Bank should not have been rehabilitated. This means that in Split, all the savings saved by the Split Bank, which is the majority of the Splits, would be left without their savings. This means that all companies would be left without shares and without deposits, without money in their accounts. This means that Split would fail, and much of it would be Dalmatia. I'm really amazed that someone represents such a thesis, and as far as which government has concluded. This government on February 3rd this year is sending us an opinion on what it thinks about this work report on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation. You know what he thinks? She's been informed. That's all this government thinks about her, that she's aware of. So please, don't do anything about what she wrote in her report. And that's startled me! As for criminal responsibility. The fact is that the State Audit Office does not rule, but it is the fact that it has also given criminal applications and reports to the State Attorney's Office. So, the fact is that there was a lot of crime dealings here, and in Split where tens of thousands of jobs went missing in privatisation, and where only a few got rich, explain to the citizens what happened if they didn't rob jobs, rob lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43638	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43639	Of course, the recovery, not the recovery, the compensation of the savings that kept their money, is also mandatory to the companies. It would have cost us less than if you'd taken care of that way, it's very clear and eloquent. The second thing, I also say again, and the conclusions that were due to begin in 2002, I point out specifically that the State's Attorney's office would also be obliged to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament within 30 days on the initiation of the proceedings in relation to the conversion and privatisation on the basis of applications submitted or under official duty, and in the applications submitted to the State's Attorney's office on abuses and illegal actions in the process of conversion and privatisation. In addition, to establish precisely the government's obligation that the perpetrators are properly and legally processed and sanctioned during the privatisation process, to determine the origin of the money that the privatisation was made and to sanction an illegal acquirer. It is almost incomprehensible that in Split companies were not able to operate well but that beginners had really skipped them in their business, which confirmed that such companies could not, or had to exist. Every job is valuable and important to us, but with a successful approach to the development of the economy, it could be resolved, as we have solved most of the companies in our area. Also, and commit the State Audit Office to draw up the criteria of order. The State Audit Office did everything required of it, but obviously there was no strength or desire to make this, these conclusions of the Croatian Parliament and execute. I repeat, it will not happen that this Croatian Parliament draws conclusions without being carried out by the body to which these conclusions apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43640	Third replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43641	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed colleague claimed that everyone had done their job well, we saw everything from that job, and what we saw most of it didn't seem to have happened almost anything terrible, it wasn't but 2, 3 criminals who got paroled and, what their colleague said, and there's no courage to say it clearly, is that that wolf in the proverb had eaten those donkeys and proverbs and that it was now over and that we shouldn't discuss it anymore, but we're going nicely into the bright future. It's all everyone's fault for what happened. It's the social property, it's the bad banks that give credit in strange ways, it's socialism, it's the foreigners, it's everyone's fault. It's not just the guy who designed the system, and he designed it to make this happen. And a colleague says we should put our trust back in the system, that's for sure. We should restore confidence in the system. The state can't function if a wide layer of people doesn't believe in that system that governs the state. But the question is how do you regain trust in the system? Whether by minorizing what has happened or by showing a sense of those who have been damaged in these events and by the will to do something, to at least restore justice to these people, if the money has already gone to some islands or some other state where the money is kept. What's missing in his step and calling in the bright future is a sentence that we're going to do from now on. So far, we've privatized this way. Shall we keep going?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43642	Replica reply, distinguished representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43643	... solid foundation for further work. [[Specially enabled.]] We cannot say that the State's Attorney's report is not excellently made, very thoroughly, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Croatian National Bank, the Agency for Rehabilitation, and I believe that it cannot happen that we are not carrying out the conclusions that we are making, because the government, then President of Mr. Ivica Racan, carried out, here's the fifth point of the conclusion, we are talking about continuity. We wouldn't be discussing this today. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged, then, in 2002, to propose within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of amendments, additions and new laws necessary to sanction crime committed in the conversion and privatisation, i.e. the protection of the economic and other public interests of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the conversion and privatisation, which will allow the perpetrators of illegal actions during the privatisation process to be fairly and legally processed and sanctioned, in order to determine the origin of the money that the privatisation was made, and to sanction illegal acquisition. If it was done then we'd be doing what we need today and tomorrow. The privatisations that are being done, I can highlight the privatisation of the Rijeka firm Jelsa d.d. in Hvar, which is excellently made. That's what the government did. We can also say that the highest amount of money that pays one privatisation is in the privatisation of Sunny Hvar. It may be better, but it's up to us to do, if we've brought something today and it's worth it and good, then we'll do it. My emphasis is precisely on doing what we bring. If we have made a decision, if we have passed the law, we should apply it and execute it and nothing else. And they're not, yes. But what we're gonna say is they're gonna... We'll do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43644	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43645	We keep looking at someone else, we'll do what we do, we, this Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43646	The fourth replica, the esteemed representative of Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43647	Thank you very much. Even though the Government, before the government of Ivica Racan, did not allow privatisation in the way neither did the government of Ivica Racan nor the Government of Ivo Sanader would have dealt with this business. About the recovery of banks cannot accept the finding of a respected colleague, because in my opinion, at least as far as I have knowledge, in fact, the recovery of banks and the analysis of what was going on in Croatian banking, say by 2000, or 2001, but mostly until 2000, because there was only one resolution, that I am not going back to that story now, is the key to the response to privatisation. Because if you look at what was actually going on in the banking system and you look at that a good part of the privatisation was done through one part of the banks that later failed by covering the dubiosis and crime privatisation of certain companies, you're actually going to get an answer. It actually became a desirable and good model for me. Those who worked and lied to that story knew that the state couldn't put those banks down because of the small savings, or people who kept money in those banks, and then made a fine withdrawal from those banks knowing that tomorrow someone would cover the debts in those banks. And another thing, I could kind of accept that we don't have to go back, but going back to the past looks like what I've heard in the last two days in the Parliament, and that's the one that pitted it, that's that we can put salt on its tail. If we send such a message from this House, then we send a message to the public about our impotence, ineffectiveness, and we send a message in fact that we are not the body that the Constitution prescribes for us. I think it's very dangerous and that such statements in this House should not be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43648	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43649	... Clear. [[Specially enabled.]] I'll do it again. Reports have been made, they're excellent, and there's no one in the pit. State's attorney's office, criminal proceedings, courts need to work. Will someone else do it for them? They don't work anywhere, just dishes. It's another thing. I'm not about to, in principle, be told that something that doesn't seem to live. Of what goes into bankruptcy, in liquidation, it always survives something good and it's a shame of that money we put into the banks. It's a shame. Our generations were creating and creating and someone wanted to get a good credit overnight, and you said it yourself, and there was no support in economic development, I'm not for these bank recoverys now or forever. And you point out well, and I'm going to replicate that. Government one, Government two, let them do in continuity what is good. Let us accept what someone received yesterday, make a good decision, and so let us follow those conclusions that the Croatian Parliament makes. If we commit the Croatian government today to something, then it needs to be done and then the other government that comes regardless of her or her will need to continue with such continuity. We can't step forward overnight. Then we had social property. I'm telling you that any developed country had tenant rights, so the purchase of apartments, they'd go crazy in three months, and we played it, we did it, we tortured ourselves, we booked it, we didn't register from all segments in Croatian society. We need a continuity of good decisions, good conclusions, but they need to be implemented. And these May 29th conclusions of May 2002, may always be carried out. If it was done then, we'd be doing actual things. So let's decide what we decide, but those conclusions need to be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43650	Fifth Replica, Honored Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43651	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Peronja, you might say the whole tactics are very well thought out. The government says "from the economic point of view of conversion and privatisation has not achieved the expected positive impact on quantitative, qualitative and overall economic development" and here the HDZ club is now trying to say in public that it was legal. So, about like this. Privatisation succeeded, workers without a job and a job and without ownership. The operation was successful because the patient died, but the tycoons became owners, that's a good formula. And one more thing. The Croatian state is the only state that has lost 96% of its citizens' ownership in the banking sector in a Croatian way. I'd like to talk about it, not about who sharpened this, and then now about formal illegalities. So we want the whole circle closed, so it was legal, here's the evidence, the state's attorney, the Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks, the Croatian National Bank, and it was all legal. There are no jobs, workers have no ownership and no perspective. It's the task of finding out who's responsible here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43652	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43653	We clearly say the relevant bodies have adopted reports, not this party, the Croatian Democratic Community, but the relevant bodies and procedures, whether they were legal or illegal, some of which are established by relevant bodies. We can't think any other way. When we mentioned property, I would like to protect with our strength the very state property and what is now our strongest, the protection of maritime goods, the determination of the limits of maritime goods exactly as the regulation and the law has been passed. Second, spatial plans that will provide us very well to the world, but also to God and people, by law and regulation, that we have indeed made and the decision and the law and implemented through land books this maritime good. That's where we stand. And whoever's damaged in his private possession has relevant bodies and legal protection as well as any other. We can't ask for other approaches. We can't ask anyone to protect them except the court, the state's attorney's office, who will carry out the proceedings, but also to the courts and the state's attorneys, there should be conditions for work. I'm saying it because until yesterday I'd be a lawyer and I know under what conditions certain courts and colleagues work. That's where we focus ourselves, and let's not keep talking business rationalization, and we're not going to give them technology aids that look like the world today, we're not going to pay them because it's expensive, I can't have colleagues and colleagues doing this responsible state job if they don't have the conditions and that's one of Mr. President's appeals for a future point of our honorable House.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43654	And the sixth replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43655	Speaking of social property, my colleague Peronja speaks of him as something that was nothing, it didn't belong to any citizen in particular, so I guess that logically follows no one individually has been robbed. And what everyone would like now, which is the noise, what they're saying about some robbery when there was no robbery and when there's relevant bodies in their reports here in Parliament, they say there's 2, 3, 7, 18 crimes and it's all expensive nothing and it's all more expensive than ok. But this social property of fellow Peronja, it was a national fortune, it was created for 50 years, it was created by generations. They, citizens, have, in their work, created these 5 billion marks that have disappeared in privatisation and conversion. They created these 400 thousand jobs that disappeared in privatisation and conversion. And despite the fact that these workers were not the sole names and surnames of that property, it was theirs and it was to be privatized to them. No, it's not. It belonged to a few chosen and there is the essence of a carefully planned robbery. Here. But in that, and that very scary cynicism, that non-recognition of the obvious, that minorization of the terrible, and that today you say that the most responsible Government of the Ivica Racan was, in fact, ineffective because she failed to sanction this privatisation robbery. She's guilty of not being as effective as the governments before her, who designed and carried out the robbery.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43656	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43657	What needs to be said again is that in the 1990s over 400 bankruptcys were launched. That's the painting we inherited in 1990. 400 bankruptcys a year are not a total figure, because local authorities at that time, and it was recorded, did not allow all businesses to go bankrupt because they had fictitiously kept employees. I refer to Professor Hebrang and the authenticity of his reports. And more specifically, it was at the end of the '90s, 196,000 unemployed. In the peaceful age of 196,000 unemployed, but more and more were fictitiously employed. I repeat again, I'm talking about the execution of conclusions no matter what government. I was just making it clear that it was 2002 and that this House shouldn't happen again. Social property, a simple example of how to build land in the city of Hvar at that time, was to be built. So the city could form, so it could be public facilities, infirmarys, okay. But then what was going on? It worked to give the previous owner 100 for what was taken from him, and through the tender it would be sold to some third for multiple value. That's what we say painfully, and we all know what social property it was. Does it make sense now to keep watching what was 90 years ago, which was 50 years ago? I point out again, the reports of the relevant bodies are in front of us, they are documented, they are listed, and if we draw conclusions, and we will bring them in then we need to execute them. It's not the 2002 conclusion that brings us back. We must not allow ourselves to be brought back again for a few years. Let's be responsible for what we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43658	Thank you very much. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43659	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me remind you, it was in the conversion and privatisation of over 2,000 and 500 companies, or entities. This revision included a total of 556 or almost a thousand enterprises not at all covered by the revision of conversion and privatisation because there was no application for that revision. To the truth, we have now extended the deadline if we declare the Law that a revision can be carried out, but we have not extended the right to apply for review, but well. I have to remind you of one more fact from all the reports I've reported so far. That the State audit identified irregularities in almost over 95% of all audited companies. That these irregularities in the conversion process had, that part of the assets were not included in the assessment, that the claims of the commercial banks were converted into shares based on the revaluation of already paid loans, that the capitalisation was not carried out in accordance with the conversion programme or the funds invested were not purposely spent. That, among other things, in the company’s assets, shareholders were financed in the purchase of shares. No legal requirements have been met for the acquisition of their own shares. Management rights were used on the basis of primarily unpaid shares from small shareholders, and the company's business was such that the sale of assets not included in the assessment of the respective dividend was not paid in favour of the Croatian Fund, etc., etc. And if you take coupon privatisation, then you will see that the State Audit has identified a dozen forms of irregularities that have also had such character of irregularities or illegalities that have ended in fact and as offences, crimes and criminal acts. The other thing to remind you of, the consequences are catastrophic. Just from the point of view, the social aspect... /The speaker shut down, then subsequently turned on. 386 thousand 675 people have lost their jobs in these thousands of 556 audited companies. Furthermore, it should be recalled that a large number of people are stimulated to retire to actually restructure the company and adjust for privatisation. Secondly, it should be recalled that 3 billion 934 million and some thousands of kunas have been reduced in these companies during the audit. That, from the point of view of unrated capital, property was cut off, i.e. the state for 965 million or over 5 billion, i.e. about 5 billion kuna. And now imagine adding a thousand more companies to that, then that's a lot more. One more thing is that in that section covered by the audit, I also find that they were used, and they are not actually included in the estimate of 2 million 774 thousand 577 square meters of land, that they include buildings in 89 thousand 265, etc., etc. Or one question I have to ask all of us and our public. Dear colleagues and colleagues, do we even have the right to the title of our responsibility, regardless now of the failures of the state authority or anyone, in conversion and privatisation, etc. But as a Parliament, do we have the right to the title of our responsibility, do we have the right to the title of reason, do we have the right to recognize these results of conversion and privatisation that have been found to be irregularities and illegalities? Do we have that right? We have the right to admit that some have become the owners of shares and shares in an illegal manner and to legalize what has been illegally acquired, regardless of what and the laws under which the conversion and privatisation has been implemented all assess that they have, for example, been such that they have favoured the conversion and privatisation and tycounization of the country? But those laws were not respected until the end, but were determined by illegality and irregularity. Do we have a right? At the Parliament's session when we discussed the last report, we found we had no right. The truth is, it was a difficult struggle to draw common conclusions, for more than two and a half months, if I remember correctly we waited, April 15, 2005, after the second month of the debate, to reach common conclusions. And we have established in them that what is now mentioned we have no right neither for our sake nor for our future's sake. And we said in point 8 of these conclusions that after the deadlines set out in the previous points, the Croatian Parliament will consider all reports delivered and, on the basis of the debate, establish the necessary measures to be taken within 90 days to remove: a) irregularities, illegalities, possible damages caused by the Republic of Croatia for conversion and privatisation, including... the new Privatisation Act according to the model to define the ESOP model. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say that this is a task for all of us who have both state and national, and social, and economic and whatever other meaning you want. And that we should see how we agree on measures, laws, instruments to do what we've already committed to on April 15th of this year. It seems to me that this situation and this new report that we've just received confirms what the State Audit has practically already found. But I also have to remind myself, what will be seen soon, today's newspaper is already writing about it, that it wasn't the act of converting and privatizing and opting for conversion and privatisation that went in the direction only on the basis of bad laws. But also on the basis of implementing rules and that this part of people and institutions will have to be covered by responsibility in determining irregularities and illegality. Just take the coupon privatisation. What does the rules on coupon privatisation mean, in which, among other things, the Minister's right to be bound by certain parts which have introduced a criterion which the law does not know, relating to participation in the auction, etc. And which apparently shows that the question is, in fact, his legality. Because he prescribed and regulated what the law does not allow. Dear colleagues and colleagues, whether this is a new form of compensation and compensation for those who took part in the purchasing privatisation and acquired property after establishing illegality, and will have to cancel such coupon privatisation, and the damage will have to be paid from the budget again by those poor citizens and legal entities of this country, who, through privatisation, have actually been damaged, etc. Except for one small part that got shares and shares so they sold them through... coupon privatisations. I think it's such an important thing that it's time for us to imagine on this issue, we can argue a lot more about what happened in these 10, 15 years and believe whatever we're saying between the parties, between ourselves, the governments, the ministers who are guilty or how guilty the same citizens know and have their own court, and the important thing that court is not going to change, remains the question of what we're going to do about this issue as far as possible. The question remains whether we have the courage to return what someone illegally took from this social and state community to whoever it belongs to and who created it to the citizens of this country. Do we have the courage, knowledge, and skills to bring those who actually played the rules to a level of responsibility if nothing else, even morally, in front of the public, to see who they were and who took part in it. The question arises whether we have the opportunity finally after all these results have, and the ability to carry out what we have prescribed ourselves. Why did we get an amendment to the law extending the deadline for the revision of conversion and privatisation and we didn't get a proposal for a new law on privatisation, and everyone writes in the paper how it works as a bypass government. There isn't. I know, I see colleagues raising tiles, that they want to replicate me among other conclusions of 2002, respected colleagues, but in 2005, we held a debate on the final results of the revision of conversion and privatisation, and only then did we definitely get all the data that really happened and you couldn't get yourself into a situation to start some proceedings that we didn't have those results because it would have turned out to be a political persecution of people, not a legal one. We now have a legal factual basis, i.e. a basis, for legal evaluations and the grounds that state bodies need to do and should be implemented. And that's why we have to pass laws that will make it possible. At the very end of the line, we have an obligation under the Constitution to protect the national state interests in that segment if these national state interests are injured and damaged in an immoral and illegal way to the harm of the state and the people. Let us make laws, gather courage, find instruments and correct how much injustice can be done to the citizens of this country, this country for our future, because this will be a question that will constantly be hampered by the present and future Croatia if it is not corrected in that segment as necessary and necessary to satisfy the minimum of justice in the conversion and privatisation that clearly cannot be absolutely fair in itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43660	Replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43661	Mr. President, I will replicate my distinguished colleague Arlovic at his comprehensive presentation on the needs that should be done to correct historical injustices. I would like to say that he has completed the process of reviewing conversion and privatisation, and it accurately lists the companies that were in the clear from the law and have their own name and last name, not as your colleagues from the club constantly blaming the complete HDZ party announce that it was a robbery, that it was a thieving, etc. There are certain cases where it is clearly and visible and we are all building on them, and we have invited them many times in the public that we do not want to sit with them either in the benches or at the same table and that they are responsible for the actions they have done, and you yourself have made binding decisions to your government at a time when you were able to sign the President of the Parliament where it is clearly said that measures and procedures should be made. So it is said that the perpetrators of illegal actions during the privatisation process are fairly and legally processed and sanctioned, in order to determine the origin of the money that privatization was made, and sanctioning illegal acquisition. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to create conditions for quality work from the competences laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on State Attorney's Office and other laws. It continues to be stated everything in the procedures that should be done in order to sanction it, I will read to you what your colleague and vice president of your Club Mrs. Opačić said and I think that everyone who is in the audit, i.e. in this process of conversion and privatisation, has a certain irregularity with his name and last name and that it is not any party, or any institution. These were your discussions which resulted in you being unable to attack in general today, and once you turn to what you asked for long ago as conclusions, state your names and last names and let's not use the same formula with which you received the 99th elections on 2000, wanting now the same formula to blacken the Croatian Democratic Community in front of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43662	Thank you for the reply to the replica. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43663	Dear counterpart Djakic, I did not scold anyone in my debate, but presented facts based on the revision. To be honest, I have to say that I had a moral human satisfaction based on this revision and its reports, because among other things, I was one of the authors of the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, which was welcomed very fiercely and on the knife at first when it was asked to be initiated and to determine who would say Royce jamio and who didn't. What I must remind you, dear colleague, in the Report and in the 95th, and before that, she was called not to be able to obtain certain information because they would not give that information, calling for a banking secret. You see, here I have a report on the approval of bank loans and the purchase of shares and shares by banks in the process of conversion and privatisation in November 94. The national bank of the Croatian sector of supervision and control, which was addressed to the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and from 94th to the day of today, was not treated to establish certain things. I have here a respected colleague of information on the results of the approved and use of special dedicated loans for the purchase of shares of companies in conversion and credit based on the stocks of life insurance policies, the severance of April 993. Therefore, it was known which instruments and mechanisms were used in the abuse of conversion and privatisation with the aim of enabling individuals and certain groups to acquire enormous wealth at the expense of citizens and nations and there were certain reports and no one had acted and wanted to act. The question arises and I ask it again, whether we have responsibilities, reason and heart that, on the basis of the conclusions that we have made ourselves, we take measures and we bring all these regulations that will be removed as it says irregularities, illegalities, ensuring possible damages to the Republic of Croatia caused by conversion and privatisation and including the creation of a new Law on Privatisation... I remind you again that it is the new conclusions of 2005. These conclusions aren't just looking for new conclusions, they're looking for new laws, they're looking for new laws, and I'm going to say something now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43664	No more.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43665	I'm done. If we don't have enough courage, heart and reason to do it, we don't deserve to sit in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43666	Replicated representative Lino Cervar, you will now have a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43667	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know if there's a reporter here, no. It's about whether they have the courage to say what I'm about to say. Because I usually believe that in our country we have more journalistic professionalism than journalistic freedoms that people want to impose. And I see you've made a very good deal of it that for years you've been wanting to hit the people's perception that we're all thieves and criminals. I don't accept it, and with disgust I refuse like I didn't steal anything or privatize it so are people, honest people who have their children and who aren't thieves or criminals, and that's an insult to hundreds and thousands of our members who gave their victims and their children even for you to sit here in freedom. And the second thing I'm saying is, [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43668	Comrade Arlović, don't throw it away, so at least you should stick to your rules of procedure. A colleague. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43669	It's hard for you to convince someone that you've come out of this... We should have courage, Mr. Representative, and say that the HDZ probably used themselves in this transformation and privatisation, but Mr. MPs and titoists and socialists and communists were exploited, mostly those who were headed by companies, directors, deputy directors and financial directors who were in contact with banks with the help of management loans by giving few shares and becoming the majority owners of the most profitable Croatian companies, companies and factories. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's where they got it, Mr. Representative, without a single kuna. And you know that today Matiz's car can't be bought without a judge. What was I going to say, Mr. Representative? Yes, we are for the rule of law but also for the right state, the moral state. Well, when you, as a Social Democratic Party, promote justice, social justice, the right of workers, the right of citizens, the right of the people, so be you, Mr. Representative, by example, the Social Democratic Party, to report to all your social Democrats, who are the majority owners of the most profitable Croatian companies, and which are given huge dividends at the end of the year for these companies that have pulled back workers. That'll give you the highest credibility. Because otherwise, you won't get votes in the election as long as you try. And finally, I want to tell you, Mr. Representative, if it isn't so that you have to be applied a folk proverb that says, "The man whose head is in the corner should not be corrected by another."
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43670	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica was respected by Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43671	I'm actually in a dilemma whether to respond to this replica given who it came from is no wonder what quality it is. I didn't tell anyone. /The noise in the hall. Please, dear colleague, you have imputed to me that I was saying that HDZ people are criminals, thieves. I didn't mention it in any word in my presentation. You're planting, you're giving, you're trying to say that I said what you'd say to someone else and you're trying to ideologie the debate that you're finally doing in your replica and doing. I ask, and I don't care if anyone by their political beliefs belongs to HDZ, social democracy or any other party today or any other political and philosophical belief. Titoists, Marxists, it doesn't matter. If they participated in the conversion and privatisation in an illegal way and did illegal acts to process them, punish and respond and what they wrongly and unlawfully acquired to take away and return to the people. I'm looking for it in my discussion and I've asked for it again, that's what I'm looking for right now. And as for the defence, you know from the President of the Republic of Croatia I received the Order of Credits for Croatia in the war while you were in Italy, a respected colleague and acquired stamps and dollars. /The noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43672	Okay, colleague Arlovic, do you allow yourself as vice president of the Parliament to throw out of the bench and as you asked, you will get it and you will get more. Well, you're Vice President of the Parliament, colleague Arlovic, so please don't. Replication response. "The eyes ate sour grapes and the children had teeth." Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43673	Thank you, Mr. President. It is very difficult in ten minutes how much I have been able to talk about one process of which this is the time of the last seven, eight years when conversion and privatisation is at work so as to say only one part and the tip of the icy santa change of business of the Croatian economy. And I am responsible because I have until 90 long experience in the wood, metal and food industry and that I know of course this problem that we cannot volunteer to choose time from from which we will talk about processes that have its own cause and consequences. The result couldn't have been if it wasn't for the cause. And when we talk with so much fire and I don't know what he regrets about so-called. Then I would only remind us that she had not acquired 50 years ago, but that she was someone's private property 50 years ago and that this property could have progressed if someone had managed her well. Let's make it go away. And so we came to 90 if we had inherited an economy that had inflation of 600%, 200 thousand unemployed outside the system, each third in the economy system was too busy and that by changing the market economy, changing the social structure and adapting the capitalist system of Europe that we want to enter the economy, and that there was no war and that there were no conversions that would result in certain changes that would result in less employees, in order to achieve efficiency and with different other processes because we remember that we mainly had work-intense activities, so Mr. Churchvenac, if we remember our metal industry. I worked at the Steel Cross, which had a thousand employees in the metal industry at the time, she had changed throughout Europe. We did not compete with people who had 12 kilos of hammers on their shoulders to compete with our basic partners in Germany who, of course, had been involved in electronics at the time. I'm talking about time from about 30 years ago. So that and such an economy had to change owners and I won't remind us all that the right of ownership assumes the right to enjoy, alienation and destruction, so tell me which of us that we were ordinary employees in enterprises had this kind of right of ownership, it was a terrible abstract term. And socialist directors were far richer than today's private entrepreneurs. And something that I want to do in this whole story, of course I'm going to talk about what's wrong, so I need to sanction it, I don't need to create an anti-enterprise climate because property assumes a huge responsibility, an entrepreneur can't be anyone or anyone wants to accept the risks of doing business and provide a single person's salary every month is a skill, is courage, is a big job. So anyone who's close to the economy knows how hard it is. And that's why I'm sorry that we're being listened to by many businessmen who employ thousands of people and who legally follow all the rules well made the conversion, took over the bad companies, made these companies envious world firms and companies, which, with the salaries of employees and with the social standard they have, are examples of how they can, therefore, be good at business, and manage well in Croatia. So I'm not going to say that the workers of the former Uniconsum are probably happy that they were bought by the current owner and that within the Konzum, they got a salary greater than the average of the economy, which has certain other benefits and ask and then those workers, we have them both satisfied and dissatisfied that have therefore progressed in this whole process. I'm not going to talk in total about how much there's been a discrepancy. Because this process that Croatia has been through, and I also claim today that the alternatives to privatisation are not available, other countries have been going through 50 or 100 years, so we have spent a short period of trubulent events, wars and everything else performing the transfer of titleholders of ownership, so we haven't had time to educate all those small shareholders about what the ownership of the stock means, which means the right to management, and which means the right to a regular place, is often being confused, so it's thought if they take stock... that it was an automatic purchase and a job, and there was a huge discrepancy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it couldn't have been for people who had to trade with those shares because they wanted to get as much revenue as possible in the shortest time as possible to say that it might be good to wait on those shares, that they would be making dividends later on, that it was a good part in some companies, so there might have been more time for us all to have not had enough expertise, but therefore, the overall process went to their own during these individual cases, and I, as a HDZ member of the 90's, also didn't feel personal responsibility because, through HDZ and HDZ, when different people who wanted to satisfy their own interests, of course, but they went through HDZ themselves because they didn't have anything to mourn or we got rid of them, because they didn't respect those programs and those goals that one party who created the state and that wanted that country to move forward in peace and that they wanted that state to have to keep their own economy. Based on these reports, something else points to... to say so and to pay attention and that is the number of rejected applications, so when you have police processing, you have the processing of the state's attorney's office and you have the number of court applications accepted, not to say the number of judgments that are minimal, so that's when the number of 54 rejected applications is very large and you see an unequal practice and an unequal relationship between different parts of the judiciary in total over the same problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I suppose in one country that wants to have an effective legal system and the police and the attorney's office and the judiciary should have the same opinion on the same things and thus achieve greater efficiency, greater efficiency, therefore, and the public would be satisfied with such justice. I am only pleased that this government has, in a very short time since the problem was seen, of course, by the measures itself to increase the efficiency of the Croatian judiciary. And the results of the privatisation, we are in a very short period of time, first of all from the start of privatisation, it's still running, so we haven't even finished it, so in order to be able to track the results of what in each, to say so to the experiment, and this is for Croatia, we would have to say a certain experiment, so, where we're correcting some things, I just have to say that the first privatisation results, no matter what they're undermining with processed or unprocessed cases that have been unlawfully showing their effects, and that's said that this year we have industrial growth of 4.8%, in the second quarter of 9%. That we've got a 5% postage of wages, that we've got a reduction in the unemployed or an increase in employees. So when we met with 200 thousand unemployed in the 90s, now we have 291, so, still, those jobs have been opening up, the number of employees has spread, we have a problem with the structure of the unemployed, we may have a whole history debate about it. We don't have, simply, to choke on that one, to say so to the party, to black out for everything that wasn't right, and no one will say that there were good things, so we don't have time to complexly look at the problem and say that inflation is only 3% regardless of what it is... The price of oil, that goods exports increased by 12.2%, while imports increased by 8%, and there are a number of indicators that say privatisation has good results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's most surprising to me, when I heard Mr. Arlovic say that the results, therefore, were only three years from now. Then why didn't they set a period of 3 years and not 60 days in point 5? Therefore, there could already have been some assumption in which the time of the revision could reach its findings and will not now return and say that the revision was also limited by the rules around which it is moving and that there are often very large discrepancies between the accounting price and the market price, all those on the market know what that means. So I can say that my house is worth five million, if I can't find a buyer who will pay more than a million. And so you set up a series of whole problems. And I'm particularly surprised, If it is not already point five, it is not point 7. So, if people's names were not given by name and last name, which were to be answered on the basis of management loans, whether or not they were legally liquid assets... [[Invader: Thank you!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43674	I thank the honourable MPs, time is up. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. One, two, three, four, five replicas. Let's get a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43675	Thank you very much. I think I understand why my colleague Sucec-Thrakostanec claims that privatisation has allowed socialist companies to become world companies. That incorrectly claims, because the proof that this is incorrect, the best evidence for that is, say, a print that had 2 million marks of fresh money a day, and in privatisation, you know where? In liquidation, then recovery. And from other companies they became only Croatian banks of the World Bank because on high interest, Croatian citizens really make good money. But unfortunately they are not owned by Croatian citizens, this is the result of privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43676	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ms. Trakostanec is, I will try to freely interpret, say about it, and if there was no war and there was no conversion, the economy would not have adapted to market conditions, plus a whole series of similar claims that actually seem to me to be an indirect justification for what happened. That's incorrect. We are here today discussing the Croatian Privatisation Fund's report, its obvious, we are discussing the State Agency Report on Bank Rehabilitation. We are discussing the Croatian National Bank's report, we are discussing the State's Attorney's Office's report. From these reports and indications and from the previous final report of the State Audit Office, no matter who made it, it is evident that there are 95% irregularities in the conversion. Let's talk about it, I don't care who did what...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43678	I thank you for correcting the incorrect assumption, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43679	...to determine whether these reports are correct or incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43680	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Ivana Sučec-Thrakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43681	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43682	The Honorable representative Tomcic did not harm Article 214, I could have hurt it, and this second one I agree with in part. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43683	Thank you very much. Well, I have to admit that for the first time today I heard one thesis, which is that a bad economy in Socialist Croatia is wrong about this type of privatisation. I'm asking everyone a question. What is it, then, privatized if nothing was there? What are these, from where did these billions that went missing actually in that privatisation? I think we should agree on one thing today, which is notorous. We are talking about socialist directors, some people who entered HDZ, did not support HDZ etc., the HDZ programme. Can we say a notorious fact? If the model by which this privatisation took place will until then, the leadership of the Republic of Croatia, that was the HDZ project. If you remember those years, SDP and some other parties represented some other model. After all, yesterday, a colleague of Chikesh said one fact, and that fact is that in HDZ, at the top, or then the president of the state decided that 100 or 200 families in Croatia must receive Croatian wealth, because they are nationalally aware and that it does not enter into the hands of some, excuse me, I quote yesterday what was said, let's actually agree. Can we agree on that? I suggest we agree on that. No one tells anyone, it doesn't occur to me to accuse someone of being a criminal, that, I don't know, it's in court, but it's actually a political and political project. Well, I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. After all, perhaps if social property had not been converted, but that social property had gone immediately into privatisation, so that in one way, politics had been removed and the market had been released, perhaps we would not have this kind of privatisation today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43684	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43685	I'm very pleased to see you, Mr. Lucine, and my dear colleague, that you've come forward and in your replica you've just shown that there are billions of SDPs that are talking about smoke and fog and they're gone. That's exactly what you proved. So, I'd be very glad that you've been able to prove in these five years and that one billion that someone named and last name is somewhere, and that you brought her back to Croatia, of course, which was your assignment in office. People expected it from you, and I, of course, was a citizen whom you represented in the coalition government, that's one thing. And second of all, there's no colleague of Chikesh. I'll just say that colleague Chikesh didn't confirm your thesis of 200 families, she just said that it would be good, and we all probably think so, so you, too, that Croatian wealth remains in Croatian hands, so how many families it is. I'm lucky there's more than 200 in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43686	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43687	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Sucjec, you tried to reciprocate everything that happened in the process of conversion and privatisation by ignoring the facts set out by the State Audit. And the facts are that there was 80 billion kuna property involved in the conversion and privatisation, that 4 billion marks of core capital were reduced and that 400 thousand workers were at least jobless in the process, and that is not regrettable. It is not regrettable of social property either, although as politicians we should regret the fate of these 400,000 families who have lost their jobs. You're saying there was a discrepancy in privatisation and conversion, there was no personnel, there was no time. However, the process has started on the basis of a political decision. Whose political decisions? The political options that were at the time. However, there was no discrepancies among all. For the most part and the employees, there was a discrepancy. However, there was no discrepancies in the political elite, because precisely in the function of what we heard yesterday, privatisation was made up in thought, and before that, laws were made that were inaccurate, vague and conflict, resulting from the State's Attorney's Office's report. Then it's '95. the years of political will, political will and judicial authority have been removed by all those who are very skilled and expert in interpreting the law. Why? In order to avoid a targeted interpretation of the law, the aim of the Privatisation Act was, at least, the work of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43688	Thank you. Time's up. Next to the replica, the reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43689	Dear colleague Lalić, I, as an extremely serious person, would not dare to relativate something that is the crucial problem of Croatian society. I just wanted to say as a serious person that when talking about one problem, I want to take all the data, all the causes in which the consequences were then taken into account, and the findings of the State Audit are just the consequences of something. I said that in 10 minutes I don't have time to see the problem complexly, but that the problem of change and the structure of the Croatian economy and ownership requires a much more serious, broader debate than politicising the State Audit findings. So, as an economist, and I am an expert and as one who has worked exclusively in production for 20 years, I dare say that I do know this problem and that it is not as simple as the figures say it. I'll just remind you that once again, the State Audit was limited in its findings, because it couldn't speak here, I repeat, the difference between accounting and market value. I'm not going to talk about the haircuts, the evaluations that were made one way or another, and we all know there's been a lot of stuff going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43690	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43691	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. They're all guilty again, according to a colleague, except for the organizers of the model. The organizers of the model had to apply such a model, the other was not, the other could not be. As if there was no political option proposed by the second model, which insisted on the model of voucher privatisation that was carried out in other countries and did not lead to this. Well, we were at war and we privatized in the war, so that's how it is. And who forced the government that then ruled the Croatian government to start privatisation in the war? Were there no conflicting opinions at that time? Don't let those who have done well and whose companies today work, who pay their workers well. Of course there are, but of course there are few. And these reports show that there are few. The question is, what about those others and how we're actually going to stand up to others? Are we going to write off those donkeys that were eaten, and the wolf went somewhere else, to Cannes or the Cayman Islands anyway? In any case, a colleague claims that everything is actually good in the state of Denmark. In every third household, according to the daily newspaper, every third household in Croatia is threatened with some sort of performance. If all this is well done, what happens to these people? Are they thieves? Is that a message?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43692	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43693	Typical socialist thinking that everyone else is guilty is just me not participating in anything. Dear fellow you, you and I are equally guilty. You and I are either equally guilty or equally innocent if we speak individually. So someone's guilt can prove court. So I leave it to the judiciary to assess someone's guilt. I did not say that there is something positive in the state of Denmark, but in the state of Croatia. So like I didn't say everything was good, I can't accept the thesis that everything is bad. And a little more self-awareness, a little more confidence in ourselves shouldn't give up and be proud of what's good. And I'll repeat: neither is privatisation as a model invented to rob what's left of social property nor is everyone involved in privatization thieves. So there were and there were those who took advantage of the possibility, and there will always be and there will be no law that would be passed by the Croatian Democratic Community so as not to have parties that find their grudge contrary. So there's no law like that. This model is chosen by consensus, which is dressed in walking, and which we can all still get to perfection because it will last for a good number of years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43694	Thank you. We're going to the next line. Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43695	A colleague of Sučec-Tracostanec was movingly and emotionally talking about the total purity and virgin innocence of HDZ in the process of conversion and privatisation. There is no collective guilt, nor does anyone advocate it, nor does anyone think of claiming that every member of the HDZ is guilty of a converted and privatizing robbery. But the fact remains, the irrefutable fact that the model of such privatisation and conversion was carried out in Croatia, imagined and implemented at a time when HDZ itself acted as a party, when it had a full parliamentary majority and had a unilateral government and president of the Republic who was at the top of that pyramid. I just got a call from Mrs. Ankica Leway. Let me remind you, this is the same lady who found out to the public that one of those 200 families got rich and how rich she got, and then she lost her job because of that knowledge. And she tells me that the then state attorney, Mr. Vladimir Seks, today carried to his office evidence of a privatisation robbery. But he didn't do anything to do it, to initiate the procedure and sanction it. Thus, this guilt can be individualized. You got it. You don't have to make a collective accusation, but you have to name those names. And it's not just those winning managerial loans, it's all those who made it possible for them. And among these names, there would certainly be many known and very loud ones today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43696	Thank you. Replication response, please respond to the line. ... Please don't throw it out of the bench! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll use Article 214 very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43697	I don't know why all MPs should have to speak completely anemically or uninterestedly about the topics they are interested in. I'm very interested in this and of course I'm emotionally tied up just like you. I know a number of people who are out of a job. I share their concerns, their fates. I'm looking for a job with them. I want to help them. And all I want to say to you is that you're as a party if you're already calling HDZ all purest, and most of us are lucky, so let's remind you, then you should've made all those conclusions in the SDP that you made in 2002 at the end of May. So it would already be clearer if responsible persons were found in companies where irregularities were identified. That special opinions have been issued to confirm whether there are such irregularities or not. So then the Government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Mr. Racan at the time had 60 days to punish the perpetrators and the actions, the perpetrators of illegal actions. To determine the origin of the funds. To publish the names of those who took up management loans. In order to create quality, conditions for quality work of courts and then to place the responsible person or persons in companies where irregularities have been identified on the tail. To then draw up the criteria of order of companies to be audited and so on. I won't be able to read all seven conclusions with subpoints now. So there's 15 of them. Well, if at least one-fifteen of these were done, it would have been a lot easier, but now we're going to have to do all 15 and what we agree on after this debate. This government will certainly do so because after these points we have two hundred pages, thank God, reports on the activities undertaken and the planned measures for the long-term removal of irregularities of which is a good part of privatisation. So we're going to discuss this next week, and then I'm going to tell you that this government has already gone far beyond these 15 points and that things are going to be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43698	A colleague of Stazic's earlier replication of Mrs. Sučec-Tracostanec said that you spoke to Mrs. Ankica Lepej on the phone who told you that she was carrying me as a state lawyer with documentation on crime in conversion and privatisation. I don't know what kind of conversation you could have had with her. I was a state attorney or public prosecutor of the Republic of Croatia from 10 August 1992, from 10 April 1992 to 10 August 1992. So about three months and something. So no one could tell you and no one could tell you that I had some paperwork on conversion and privatisation and use this assembly stands. In 1992, it was a very different time, and what Mrs. Ankica Lepey could have done when she came into that situation that she lost her job. That was about 1995, 1996, 1997. So don't put me in a position to be imputed and cited by some conversation that could neither take place nor put me in the context of the one who put me in. No MP or President of the Parliament can be called to a phone call, unverified conversation shows and shows that he was the one who covered up and prevented and failed to prevent criminal prosecution of crime in conversion and privatisation in this way. That too, I can say for anyone that someone phoned me and qualified me as the person responsible for the prevention or cover-up of crime. I didn't eat onions or smell onions. As Deputy Prime Minister, I have carried out all kinds of activities and have led the organised action to prevent, prevent and repress and organised crime and crime in conversion and privatisation. Don't indirectly portray me as the responsible person for the cover-up of crime in conversion and privatisation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43699	Mr. President of the Parliament, you're saying that I'm calling for some kind of god-awful conversation with Mrs. Leley and you're actually suggesting that I made this up. No, I didn't make it up. You can check it out. Call Mrs. Leprechaun. If you won't call. I invite the public to call her, so let her tell the public and the press if she called or didn't call me, and she told me what she told me. I don't know if it happened, whether it's true, whether it's incorrect, but that's what Mrs. Lepoway says.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43700	I know fellow Stazic, but if that's how we're going to use it. How about I say I talked to the phone a little while ago and it's showing you something that you weren't at the time. Well, it can't be shown on unverified information. How could you not? Well, I know, so you're carrying something that someone allegedly said. We've still got the replica, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43701	Thank you very much. The historical intersection that our colleague Trakostanec brought us here is very interesting. According to her, HDZ is nowhere in privatisation and conversion, not even before the 1990s, not until today. However, it is absolutely certain that this privatisation package that we are talking about yesterday and today through an extended audit will affect foreign investment because it will introduce legal uncertainty and uncertainty for investors. Let's try to get the gentlemen to act on the findings of the review effectively, to change the Privatisation Act, to apply the new provisions of the PIF Act, to find solutions for PIFs that should deprive the exiles because they bought 15% of all the shares, for the double-crossed small shareholders who had to break 400,000 contracts to pay them back the money they spent in vain in the fund. The origin of tycoon money is very interesting and to agree on how to determine it. Tax burden of property acquired through privatisation, to finally define the first purchase right for 200 families in Croatia also to clear up until the end, because gentlemen of justice is interested in those who chose us. Empty promises don't interest anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43702	Thank you. Reply to the replica respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43703	Happiness for Croatia and the Croatian people HDZ has been in Croatia since '89. And I'm not ashamed of being a member of his '90s, I haven't been since '89. but since the 1990s, I have been actively involved in the executive government in this country and I have been working together with all my colleagues sitting here to get a new face, a new spirit and new material wealth. With what you later read, I agree with some things in part, and I assume you read the same thing on May 29, 2002, and that based on these suggestions, it is then complex this series of conclusions. I'm just really surprised you didn't insist after those 60 days. So that was May. You should have asked at the next autumn meeting in September if you didn't arrive, of course, at an extraordinary session in the summer, for these conclusions to be consumed and met and you'd be much more credible than you do today after a good three-and-a-half years or four years when, of course, the government changed, so it turns out that you had nothing to do with it, and you were in a coalition with the SDP whose majority brought it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43704	Thank you very much. HSP MPs' club, respected representative Tonci Tadic, is looking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43705	Dear Mr. President, as well as yesterday, we've been listening for hours to this ritual slapping with replicas on one side and on the other side of the assembly, and we're getting further and further away from the topic. HSP therefore seeks a break for the Club of 10 minutes, after which we will present our views on the continuation of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43706	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43707	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm joining and requesting a break on behalf of the 10-minute club to reroute this debate to the original document we're discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43708	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43709	On behalf of the SDP Club, we're also looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43710	And the esteemed representative Zlatko Tomcic is looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club. Clearly and inescapably on behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, also on behalf of the SDSS, both HSLS and LS. Okay. Write down the order of those who asked for a break, and it's a long night.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43711	We're moving on with the session. HSP representative club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43712	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, honored gentlemen from the Croatian Government and the State Audit. For hours here in this assembly, we've been listening to ritual slaps from both sides of the assembly. The theme of ladies and gentlemen, is not to wash out conscience on both sides of the assembly who is politically guilty of both us in the club HSP and the Croatian public interests in the first row who is responsible for what is criminally responsible here and for what is materially responsible. What happened? The state audit said, there are reports that we received in materials both from coupon privatisation and from this so-called. ordinary privatisations and we do not need to talk about it specifically, nor do we need to read it. What's the theme of today's session, what we actually have to say here in our court is what we do next with the subjugated assets. So the topic is actually to answer one key question that is being addressed by the entire Croatian public, which is whether we can further tolerate the free availability of illegally acquired property or not, or whether this Parliament, if neither this or the former Government, can make it clear to us that any further trade and availability of illegally acquired shares and illegally acquired companies is unacceptable to us. Do we have the strength or not? That conclusion is of interest to the HSP club. And in that sense, we have given our amendment, which we expect to support, which is that illegally acquired property is declared void, that illegal privatisation contracts are declared invalid, that the implementation of the privatisation contract is followed, and that any violation of the privatisation contract is punishable, that the coupon privatisation that has been made under the PIF law is declared illegal and invalid and that the replacement of shares that were actually committed by the law. We are therefore interested in whether the Assembly can reach such a conclusion, whether the Croatian Parliament, this High House of Power, says that we are sick of illegal possessions, illegally acquired property or not. We are still ladies and gentlemen, neither we nor the Croatian public are interested in fighting within the Parliament where who was and what was when anyone told you about whom. We are interested in whether the Council has the power to put an end to the illegal availability of illegally acquired shares and illegally acquired assets, and this is the subject of today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43713	Thank you. The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43714	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Although only in our club were we expecting this kind of debate, we're all disappointed in it. How this item of the agenda and this debate has taken place since the second day. 5th February of this year, the Croatian Parliament concluded a debate on the work report on the conversion of the audit and privatisation submitted by the State Audit Office. It was only April 14th of this year that the agenda was voted on. On February 5th, we closed the debate, and only April 14th was the vote on the conclusions, on this final report by the State Audit Office. The phonogram adopted conclusions on 14 April, quoting "the agreed proposal of SDP clubs, HSS, HDZ, HSU, IDS, SDSS, HSLS and National Minorities". The phonogram also shows that, in addition to HSP clubs and HNS, there were no other proposals for conclusions without our club signing these harmonised proposals. These conclusions were adopted on April 14th with 101 votes for, 7 abstentions and one against. These are the conclusions on the basis of which the Privatisation Fund of the Croatian National Bank, the Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks and Savings, the protection of the savings roles of citizens and the State's Attorney's Office to submit these reports and the indications they provided and the item of the agenda. However, point 8. of this Assembly's conclusions, which are claimed to carry out all its conclusions, reads, quotes: "The Croatian Parliament will, after the deadlines from the previous points, consider all the reports delivered", do so yesterday and today "and on the basis of the debate carried out", do so yesterday and today "determine the taking of the necessary measures within 90 days for the purpose of the 1st removal of irregularities, 2nd illegality and 3rd possible compensation of the Republic of Croatia for damages incurred in the conversion and privatisation, including the creation of a new Privatisation Act, which should be defined among other things by the ESOP model", working stockholdership. 101 votes were also for this 8th point. Is there anyone in this debate yesterday and today, and it says that on the basis of this debate, the Croatian Parliament will take these four measures within 90 days, offer a solution to measures to remove irregularities, to measures to eliminate illegality, to measures of possible damage to the Republic of Croatia, to damages caused in privatisation and whether anyone has offered a solution to the new Privatisation Act. Has anyone taken the obligation to present these four measures and the new Law on Conversion and Privatisation within 90 days to the Croatian Parliament? I have not heard this, and I call on the conceivers of the conclusions of 14 April this year to meet and agree on the basis of the proposals of these conclusions adopted by the Croatian Parliament and offer us four measures and a new Law on Conversion and Privatisation within 90 days. That's all we want to discuss further, and we want to hear it. Whether it's this side of the clubs or this side of the club, it's all one thing to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43715	Thank you very much. SDP club, respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43716	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to say that this was a kind of request from the party's HSP club, that it was a kind of abuse of the Rules of Procedure because you gentlemen from HSP last night were not here in the debate. You used this break so there could be some views here on behalf of the club to say at the time of the television broadcast. The representatives of the SDP Club were here to discuss this issue neatly until 22:00 yesterday because we think this topic is extremely important, even if it was not transmitted by HTV cameras. And we've suggested conclusions, but it didn't occur to us to ask for a break to talk about what our conclusions are at the time of the transfer. Those who spoke here today about being disappointed with the debate, we too can say that we are disappointed in part of the debate. Mostly part of the debate that comes from the ruling party who returned to that level that privatisation is guilty of socialism and therefore the system by the 1990s. No one in this House can and must stop the debate in front of Croatian citizens who need to see who is relativizing in this House the loss of jobs, who relativises the damage in the economy from privatisation, who relativises that no one is sanctioned for thieving in privatisation. We cannot be expected from the SDP Club to remain silent about losing jobs and to remain silent about the legitimate dissatisfaction of citizens because no one is sanctioned for crime in conversion and privatisation. It should also be said that all the measures the former coalition government has taken to do something about sanctioning thieving in privatisation and conversion have fallen, gentlemen, here in the Croatian Parliament. Not in the government, here. Here in this House. In recent years, there has been no political will to pass laws sanctioning illegal acts in privatisation, and also today I am afraid there will be no political will to make real conclusions that would indeed be as correct as the injustices that have been done to our citizens. There was talk here this morning about 400 thousand lost jobs not a big deal. We at the SDP Club claim that this is the 400 thousand human fates that have lost their future because of the revision of the conversion and privatisation that went the way it went. We also think that citizens have the right to know and have the right to hear that, for example, here yesterday by a representative from the HDZ Club confirmed that behind this model of privatisation I stood the state summit of HDZ. So, Mrs. Lucia Chikesh said here yesterday, I will quote her words from the phonogram: "The late President Tudjman and 200 families wanted to keep Croatia from going into other people's hands and he was doing it precisely because of those who are not nationalally aware." And that's what Croatian citizens need to hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43717	First, as provided for in Article 223a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament when, during the meeting of the Assembly, the president or vice-president of the club, the representative or other representative of the club of representatives, if the previous two or two are not present, requests a break for the club's session, shall state the reasons for this, the chairman shall be obliged to approve the recess. The only thing it has power to do, which is that in a period of at least 10 minutes to 30 minutes, it sets that break at 223.b of the Rules of Procedure, there are certain reasons when a break will not be granted. ... Yes, it cannot therefore be said that the HSP Club has abused the Institute of Breaks because it has the right to do so as well as any club to state the reasons. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They gave the reasons, and I gave them a break. And you are also on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, arguing that the HSP Club has abused the pause to present its political position in the same way in most of your presentations, also presented and reiterated your political position of the club, quite legitimately and justly. But you acted in the same way as the HSP Representatives' Club where you delivered your opinion, the view of this topic we are discussing. I don't think it's a matter of any kind, colleague Tadic, here you go. Let me add one more thing. By metaphorically using a rhetorical representative, Lucija Cikeš, she cannot know what the position of the state leadership of Croatia was in the 1990s. No one can know that, the state leadership of Croatia from the 1990s knows that. Others can only guess. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43718	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I thank you for your defense of the Rules of Procedure. And secondly, distinguished colleagues, my colleague Rosic and I were here last night until the end of the assembly session. We spoke on behalf of the club until 21 and 15 and then we sat a foot and a half from you until the end of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43719	They were colleagues Rosic and counterpart Tonci Tadic in a divided debate for 20 minutes, each talking for 10 minutes. Croatian Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43720	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Based on the statement of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the DAB, the State Attorney's Office and the Croatian National Bank, and on the basis of the final Report of the State Audit of September 2004 and the conclusions of the Parliament of 14 April 2005, and these two-day discussions of the HSS Club are definitely being made. One, the process of conversion and privatisation is the political project of the then government and leading HDZ political parties, starting in the '90s. Second, illegal practices, legal disorder, malpractice, clientelism, ineffectiveness of prosecution and damage have been demonstrated through these reports. Thirdly, it has been demonstrated that it is possible to conduct proceedings for the return of illegally acquired assets and to press charges for the cancellation of the contract in order to compensate for the damages. See the State's Attorney's Office report. Fourthly, it has been proven that the Croatian Privatisation Fund ignores the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, sees their report, and enters the compensation procedures in some cases just squeezed by evidence and forced by other institutions. Fifthly, it has been proven that the Croatian Privatisation Fund is largely guilty of illegal conduct. The sixth, proven still hides names and societies and individuals that were the most prominent clients of the system in the process of conversion and privatisation. The HSS Club stresses that the State Audit Office reports are correct, they are accepted in this Assembly and clearly enough. That the state's attorney's testimony definitely took the dust off the entire case of conversion and privatisation. That through the debate, especially from the bench of the leading parties, it is once again trying to question the established truth in this House. So the HSS Club proposes, let's definitely move to the conclusions proposed by some parties and also by the HSS Club. Conclusions that need to create conditions to compensate individuals, to defile the state, and to punish those who can still be punished. And to finally establish some new model of privatisation rules. We are on the move here in the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is on the move. We have to draw conclusions, that the government respects those conclusions if we are able to make them. After voting on the conclusions and content of the conclusions, it will be clear who is and who is not to get out of the tunnel of the smell of conversion and privatisation. Already, Mr. President, when we did not have the strength or when you did not have the strength to hold the debate evenly before the public, I ask you on behalf of the HSS Club to hold a debate on the conclusions and vote on the conclusions in the time when Croatian television is conveying it so that the Croatian public definitely knows who thinks about what it is called conversion and privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43721	It's not that we didn't have the strength to lead the debate, but we had a reason not to have a debate so it would run for 10 days. We had 43 deputies we had a report from all these state institutions, ministers, vice-presidents of government, clubs and if we had a debate in three hours a day and waited for the time of direct television transmission to come, then this debate with this pace and these huge replicas, correcting false allegations, and with this number of speakers might have ended up somewhere when the dark winter night had already come down. I will continue the debate, I repeat on television, the programming board, the directors and editors, and I will intervene or beg them, let them do what they do. The way they work, let them work. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43722	Mr. President, you misread my appeal. We couldn't have the debate in front of the public, but we didn't, and I've now urged that, with the power of my authority, the debate on the proposed conclusions and the vote on the conclusions, we lead to a term when the cameras are on, without intervention with television, without requests to television, it's only a matter of your goodwill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43723	It is not my good will, when we are going to have a debate on the conclusions of this debate, it will take a very long time to try to find some consensus and some conclusions. Let's remember what happened last night, that it took two months for clubs to agree on conclusions. What's that, pal? It's all expensive for us to remember. And distinguished representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43724	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. It's interesting that Mrs. Chikesh's statement about 200 families, but it's interesting that one of these families was also the family of the late President Tudjman. Namely, Dean Kosutic, a prominent man in Belgrade today, was headed by the Central National Fund of 430 million marks, which he sells to Epic Fund Count Eltz in 2000, more specifically to sell stakes in 197 companies. However, to get back to the point now, the more I listen to the debates in this House I am aware of, and I was saying yesterday that there will be nothing since the revision because this bill on the revision of conversion is simply a commodity with a mistake. Goods with a built-in virus, which cannot be destroyed, which best confirms our judiciary that for conversion processes, privatisations issued two conditional convictions, pronounced pardon, or two fines. Why gentlemen, I'm talking about the virus because those who participated in the conversion today are amnesty, who beat them, amnesty. It has been amnested by a state audit, and these same people who have money in this Republic of Croatia will continue to buy Croatian companies that must be privatised. So these same people are still gonna get rich. For example, how to repay the debt to the pensioners, by converting, and who will buy these companies will buy our tycoons, it is a tragedy, however, that injustice whatever anyone thinks of it will not be corrected. I am opposed, as everyone in this Parliament is likely, to draw a line under this, but the judiciary with two conditional sentences and two fines unfortunately pulled the water for reviewing conversion and privatisation. How someone who took part in this will get hit by a public conviction or I don't know what's the same as the parole or fines. It's hard for them to drop 20 or 30,000 fines. I also agree that all these replicas contribute to the belief of our public that the revision has passed the time but we should not stop the replicas based on our Rules of Procedure. In fact, if the time had passed, it should not be convinced that I would say, citizens, because since the revision there was nothing during the Matesha government, neither coalition nor this one now, and indeed no future government in Croatia will deceive anything the public will not do, regardless of what she thinks, as I think they are, the conversion and privatisation of crime. Mr. Tadic is looking for the futility of all these legal affairs, which is, with old age, who finally had a new 91st, 92th nobody, but Mr. Tadic and your Rabbit had money, he had no money, which, we can only nationalize as Tito did in 46th or 45th. What if someone tells Mr. Rabbit enough now, you know who he'll be enough for, it'll be enough for his employees but not for him. What about TDR, Agrokor, PIFs, LURAs, etc., we can't even guarantee the repayment of loans taken by some of these companies, who... from the world with these companies if we engage, etc., I doubt that anyone, unfortunately, I will support any such request but I know that nothing of the conversion review will happen, nothing happened with those conclusions we adopted in 2002, and certainly not with this extension of the deadline for reviewing the conversion and privatisation that is now with 30. Nine. 2005 prolonged to 30. Nine. 2006. You realize from the review there's nothing there, it's the wrong stuff, exactly Lucia said that someone just wanted it to happen, it's designed, it's constructed, it's finally implemented. There is no longer for us today, unfortunately back.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43725	So the positions that have already been expressed on behalf of the clubs are repeated, and that's why pauses are sought. Because we have such a beautiful Rules of Procedure that I cannot arbitrarily assess the reasons why we are looking for a break. When you said that, you repeated the same thing you said, that in the second part, the position of the SDP representative club again. Now we're going to make a little correction of the incorrect allegations, colleague Cain, leave the rabbits, the rucksacks. Shaggetta, rye and rabbit in the woods. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43726	I'm correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Caine who says it's the law on the revision of conversion and privatisation and that the revision has done nothing. The audit has identified irregularities, established illegalities, so if we go by the name of who it is. What, uh... The damage has been determined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What created the problem of inability to sanction is in the judicial power. In the judicial authority, not because of the judicial authority, but because politics got involved. How did politics get involved? She was involved in the resolution of all judges, by the appointment of the State Judiciary Council, who had appointed new judges for life, of course, and decided on their strict responsibility. So it's policy that has no will that now that we know both names and damage has no power to make decisions to at least partially resolve the damages that have occurred. And that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43727	The State Judicial Council was disbanded by the change of constitution in 2000 and only after that, by changing the Constitution was introduced for judges for life plus for those beginners for five years. I remember my colleague very well in 1995, and I remember her and '85. And in '75, I remember all those years. Dear Representative Frano Matušić is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43728	The State Judicial Council was disbanded by the change of constitution in 2000 and only after that, by changing the Constitution was introduced for judges for life plus for those beginners for five years. I remember my colleague very well in 1995, and I remember her and '85. And in '75, I remember all those years. Dear Representative Frano Matušić is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43729	And the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovanovic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43730	Well, since there is no Mrs. Šima Krasic, we are much louder today as to the opposition, I must say that the correction of the wrong assumption is that privatisation or the finding of the State Audit of the goods with error. And as far as 200 families are concerned, it is likely that whoever imagined it would be pleased to have the Jakovcic family, Cacic, perhaps Linic and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43731	It's not Jacob, no. He's still living in a state apartment he can't buy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43732	Honorable representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club. Fellow Members, please leave the names of the present representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43733	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! I thought this was one of the topics where I could talk from the point of view of my electoral base that I wouldn't talk about with a judgment of responsibility and guilt and then a colleague of Cain shows up and mentions a name and then I can't really talk from that point of view anymore. All right. Of course we can accuse each other here of how much someone is guilty, those who were more powerful and those who were less powerful but one thing we must be aware of. All of us who have been here longer than three mandates or who are here less than two mandates must be aware of the fact that the people see us as responsible for what happened and that we must be aware when we leave this hall and when we enter it. And when President-in-Office of the Parliament says that only the state summit could have known and that no one today knows what the state summit knows except itself, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow people know it and neither of us has to testify about it, and it knows the experience of their own skin. And for that reason, believe me, no one likes the way we're talking about this issue because regardless of whether it's a name or a party name, it's a question of whether it's a party name, but we who are headed to this hall and sitting in it either as more powerful or less powerful co-responsible for what happened to the fact that we were sitting there, saying, and not taking what we really had to do in this thing. And the only thing that can possibly be done is the question of legality, the legality of what the law can still act on right now. And the second is the question of efficiency. It's a matter of government and a question of parliament. In this sense, those who have been given the opportunity to do so have done nothing to develop what is called an economy or restrict the possibility of development. So for this there is a state and for this there are state and government mechanisms as much as this segment is wildly liberal but the state in this sense in the general national interest must be able to act. We can talk about that. We certainly cannot accuse even socialism and cannot accuse many of those who are sitting here on behalf of the HDZ. And in that sense, it is really a question of whether we can take this topic as a draw line with a type of policy in which we have been wetted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43734	Gentlemen, and counterpart Pupovac, the state summit after the 90th election, was formed by the Presidency of the SR of Croatia in which the presidency, apart from the chairman of Dr Tudjman's presidency, was then a member of the SDP SKH Dusan Bilandzic, was a member of the presidency, in which he was the first president, the current President of the Republic in which the government was also the Executive Council, who were differently party-positioned. The government of Democratic Unity came in which one of the vice presidents was also Dr. Zdravko Tomac from the SDP. It was a state summit that made strategic and key decisions and as regards the conversion and privatisation of its decisions, its decisions in the Government and its proposals for laws that were more or less consensually adopted by all parties. We are now in a position to deal with different and objectively subjective problems created by the model and concept of privatisation we are in the position of that Bible "Eyes ate sour grapes and children’s thorny teeth". Representatives' club. Yes, I almost forgot your honorable correction. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43735	Your Honor, Mr. President. First of all, I am not responsible for the conversion as Mr. Pupović imputed to us in nothing. I don't admit it. Nothing at all. In fact, I did everything I could to keep it from happening, whether it was Liburnia or whether it was the Istrian bank when it was meant to drive Kutl out of it. Second, what hit me more. I haven't accused anyone of anything before. I only asked Mr. Tadic what Mr. Rabbit was in 91st year and that the futility of the job in that case would not be a tragedy for Mr. Rabbit but would be a tragedy for his workers. And therefore, gentlemen, and it would also be in all other cases, and therefore I am deeply convinced, unfortunately, that it is tragic that since the revision of the transformation in this country there will be nothing, you know, that Croatian representatives, the Croatian Government, know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43736	And how are you going to ask on behalf of the club, speak and then ask a representative's question to another representative to answer your question about what Mr. Rabbit had 91 years ago? And no one did, and now we've got a car testimonial of our own innocence regarding Mr. Cain's conversion and privatisation. And the club of representatives of HSLS, DC, LS, respected representative Frano Piploić. The clubs have changed the order in an agreed manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43737	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I think everyone in this assembly and the entire Croatian public that conversion and privatisation is actually one variant of the original accumulation of capital in Croatian way. This original accumulation is over, the consequences are where they are, all those who don't know the history of the original accumulations know that more or less all of them ended up as one universal, kind of kidnapping. And in yesterday's debate and today's debate, we heard the conclusion that there were also extenuating circumstances in our example, there were indeed, a social system broke and when you came out of a system that actually had no chance of surviving clearly that these circumstances were suitable for those who wanted to break regulations, to be immoral, to take away etc. The war has come to all of this, and you know well what we have suffered in the war. I don't want to justify anything, but I just wanted to say on behalf of our club, so in what circumstances all this was happening. Furthermore, yesterday I mentioned one finding and now I'm going to repeat it here again. I think it's hypocritical to accuse anyone and move the ball of responsibility to one side. When it comes to this famous Law on Conversion and privatisation, I think there are no innocents, many have taken advantage of this law, of its parameters that allowed it to come into possession of property, rights etc., I think we all need one form of conscience examination and then we could look far more responsibly into each other's eyes. The public is looking for victims, you have to understand the public because she and the biggest victim, especially those who have lost their jobs, who have lost their jobs overnight, lost their social and any other security. Therefore, they should be offered those victims, and those victims should offer those most responsible in this House, which are strongest in the number of votes, they should offer those victims, they should agree not to drag the rest of us into this. And the public certainly expects, you offer, so you will see what it will look like. People will likely be able to cope with all the troubles they have caused from this transformation and privatisation and from everything else that has followed. On behalf of the Club, I suggest that, to bring in one declaration, that what was actually taken as a curse, that it could not be legalized, that there is nothing legal, that there is no political party, there is no law that can legalize the kidnapping. If we want to look openly into every citizen's eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43738	Thank you very much. I don't know if your proposal realizes that in order to initiate perhaps a ruling party to hand someone over as a scapegoat, it's as if he were to transfer the victim to the public, to choose one of himself, from whom, from the ministers, from the representatives and to deliver them to the lions? But you said that you did not, that there are no innocents, and then you place yourself in those who might be extradited. Innocentity without protection. On behalf of the Club, the representative of HDZ, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43739	Your Honor, Mr. President. The Croatian Democratic Community does not run away from part of its responsibility for what was done in privatisation, nor has it ever run away. But in Croatia, the democratic community today is not sitting here who are then and if they were involved, they have sinned in any way. Secondly, the Croatian Democratic Community did not launch and the Croatian Democratic Community government did not launch this debate today on its own initiative, but on the basis of the House's conclusion, and the Croatian government is obliged to meet the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. And it is not the purpose of this debate to draw a line under everything that has happened, exactly the opposite, to continue the processes, to sharpen the processes, to where it is through legal state institutions, the court, the state's attorney, the law enforcement bodies, to separate them from the illegal ones, and to determine how these persons can be processed, there is no underlining of the lines. Whoever's guilty is guilty and should be held accountable, no matter which party he belonged to, no matter where he was, no matter how much he had, if guilty, let him answer. But I have to mention that exactly the biggest... In today's debate, the Parliament adopted with 101 votes, as was necessary at that time, for the adoption of the Constitution which obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on the need to sanction crime committed in the conversion and privatisation, i.e. the protection of the economic and other public interests of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the conversion and privatisation and that will allow the perpetrators of illegal activities during the process, privatisations to be fair and legally processed and sanctioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to determine the origin of the funds that privatization has been made and sanctioned by a non-legal acquirer. If the process had started then, if the process had been designed then, if the Government had then reached the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament today they would probably be discussing the results of these conclusions that were then made and were 2, 3 years ahead, some would have played the piano on the other side of the lock rather than boasting the illegal and unlawfully acquired funds. Therefore, the laws, i.e. the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament and there is no drawing of the line under privatisation results, this Croatian government will respect and implement it until the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43740	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43741	It is incorrect that the government has not fulfilled the parliament's conclusions. She amended the Penal Code, which incriminates precisely economic crime to prevent new situations from being punished by such penalties as to make the act obsolete three times longer, and you voted against the law. By the way, you knocked him down in the Constitutional Court. All right. After that, you've had time to change and continue to follow the conclusions, you've changed the law three times, and now it's in the process. That doesn't change. And that's not what you're suggesting. We then last year as SDP's club the whole thing... and we're suggesting the same thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You refuse. The government refuses because it says that existing norms are enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43742	Honorable representative Damir Cain. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43743	I mean... Who's to blame should answer and need [[I think so.]] And you need to answer [[/Intruder: What?]] We're all for it, that's a nice thing to say, but what about old age? [[Intruder: What, quote]] 1991, 1992, 1993
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43744	What's the quote? What are you correcting, colleague Cain? What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43745	The whole speech, the point, the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43746	Whose quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43747	Where he's talking about being Racan's fault It's not Racan's fault. [[Thank you very much.]] the courts of those who have spoken two conditional terms; and [[/Intruder: Leave it alone!]] two fines. [[Intruder: No incorrect quote correction.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43748	Please take your seat in your sitting position. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43749	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that the conclusions have not been made. The conclusions are all over a series of points, some points are done, and some conclusions are not done. And now that we're talking about whether we should discuss it now or not. In front of me are the conclusions of the 1995 County Assembly of Brod-Posavina County
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43750	But, Comrade Lalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43751	When asked for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43752	What kind of correction is that? Mention of the Assembly’s Conclusions
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43753	Mr. Jarnjak was at that time.. /The speech room was off./...behaving to me the power seemed to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43754	Well, you didn't, Mr. Jarnjak didn't mention the conclusions at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43755	That's when the audit started, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43756	Assemblys
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43757	It's been a while since we've been out of deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43758	County
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43759	It's been a while, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43760	Ship-Posavina.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43761	And you know it very well... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43762	But what are you correcting? What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43763	You got your hands on it, and you didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43764	What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43765	Wrong assumption that the conclusions were not carried out. Some are, some aren't. And if they were such conclusions, perhaps your colleague Jarnjak is both your colleagues and funny, but when it comes to participation and accountability, there is also participation in different ways in all this. If the state's attorney told us this is in this condition... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43766	This is my colleague's comment now. ... Comrade Lalic, please! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43767	And? And? Because of the bad laws you gentlemen have passed to make such privatisation possible. [[And now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43768	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43769	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At first, allow me to truly thank from the heart all those who have been reporting for the debate here for the second day on these very current and interesting points of the agenda though, will you allow me to especially thank those who have been very specific and constructive in trying to find a solution both from this situation out? But what exactly is this about? What exactly are these two days being debated here? Whether or not this is one political stage, a political struggle in which, first of all, what was done in 2000 is the burden of blaming all problems stemmed from the process of conversion and privatisation to today's and present HDZ. And that seems to me to me what some parliamentary deputies are trying to do in their discussions. In April of this year, the Croatian Parliament discussed the final indication of the State Office for Auditing the revision of the conversion and privatisation based on the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. Certain conclusions have been reached and these conclusions have been made by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the State Attorney's Office, the Croatian National Bank to show about the State Audit Office's report. You've got the obviouss. You've got the obviouss ahead of you. But I'm not saying it again. The revision of conversion and privatisation is not exclusively carried out by the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation but also by the basis of the Law on State Audit. And the review continues. And every year, you respected parliamentary representatives on your benches get materials produced by the State Audit Office and you get the obviouss of those bodies. So, among other things, you get the evidence of the revision of the conversion and privatisation for a certain period and of the Croatian Privatisation Fund in the same period. I'm really confused about that. Today I heard 95, 93% privatisation and conversion to Croatia is illegal. Please show me one material that says it. The fact is, there are irregularities and you know that irregularities are not equal and illegal. I also remind you that on your benches there is an indication of the Croatian Privatisation Fund related to the latest report of the State Audit carried out on 278 companies. From 278 companies that were audited in the process, during the period from December 2003 to September 2004, 75%, somewhere around 75% of the transformed societies over which the revision was carried out were based by law and without irregularities. 88% of the companies are privatized. From that report, according to the Privatisation and Without Act, and without any observed and defined irregularities. But speaking of these reports, then we have to talk about some other reports. When we talk about the debates at the Parliament, then we need to talk about some of the other discussions that were held here. And the conclusions this High House has made. So I remind you once again of the May 2002 conclusions, so I'm going to quote them. Point 5 and 6 in particular: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes" therefore your Government, the Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Ivica Racan, "to propose within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of amendments, additions or new laws necessary to sanction the crime committed in the conversion and privatisation or protection of the economic and other public interests of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the conversion and privatisation, which will allow the perpetrators of illegal actions during the privatisation process to be fairly and legally processed and sanctioned. To determine the origin of the money that privatization has been made and sanctioned by an illegal acquirer." Point 6. of the Assembly's conclusion: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to create conditions for quality work for the State's attorney's office established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and other laws." So today we are discussing the indications of DORH, DAB, HFP, as well as of who should and why he did not implement the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament of May 2002. Today we are discussing the initiative of Mr Ivanis and the coupon privatisation that this House of the High has already discussed. You've been discussing her, and you've reached conclusions. But, well, you wanted to discuss coupon privatisation and you know why you wanted it. We don't run away from her. At the request of Mr Ivanis, the President of the Parliament has established and placed this item on the agenda. I'm reminiscing what I was saying yesterday. There are no other materials, but materials of the State Audit Office relating to coupon privatisation. No one argues that coupon privatisation was a process based on a noble idea that would in some way deprive the victims of the Homeland War and transfer shares and shares of companies that were profitable and solvable. No one has ever disputed that the process was under-transparently conducted and that in a circle of companies that were subject to coupon privatisation, those who did not comply with the defined rules were found. No one disputed that out of 478 companies, about 470, 480 companies that were the subject of coupon privatisation, 280 were therefore not profitable and social. As no one argues that the biggest problem stemmed from coupon privatisation is insufficiently transparent and clear stock compensation contracts. All of this is confirmed by all of us here, confirmed by the State Audit Office in its report, confirmed by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. That's what HFP people are aware of. No one has ever disputed that, and neither have we, but, in fact, we claim so. But the problems stayed. Share compensation contracts were realised by the beginning of 2000 by 65%, so 35% of the contract was not realised. But after you came to power what was your mission? Was your task to do, and the task of any government, so to solve problems or to multiply them? I think it's a basic task to solve problems, but I also think that the primary goal was to deprive someone of the coupon privatisation and privatisation in general and the HDZ at the time which led the privatisation process. A HDZ that's no longer the same. Now it is right to request a report from the State Audit Office about this and you have received a report from the State Audit Office and the Legal Sector of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the President of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and all these reports have one common feature or several common characteristics. They're quality, they're professionally done. The Management Board of the Privatisation Fund shall therefore meet each of these reports with the advantages and disadvantages of the models offered to solve the problem. But we can also conclude that it is suggested that the best way to solve these problems is by peaceful means and new agreements, and I can quote it and I can tell you if you accidentally lost those materials or forgot to deliver them again. But we decide for something else, we decide for litigation, and in this process we rightly hire the State's Attorney's Office, but I also decide that the advisor of the State's Attorney's Office, the consultant of the State's Attorney's Office, will be the lawyer's office that is not from Zagreb. Why? Does this mean that the lawyers in Zagreb are not competent enough or does this mean that in Zagreb they are thieves, in Rijeka they are honest? Is this advisor hired under the Public Procurement Act? Where are the materials related to that? The material's gone, but the cost of the lawyer's house is 2.5 million kuna. ... 2.5 million kuna paid so far. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now, dear colleagues and colleagues, yesterday we debated here that it would be good to have this debate in front of the TV cameras. I'm very interested in this debate being conducted in front of the cameras.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43770	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43771	I'll be brief now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43772	When you are the speaker of the assembly and the chairman of colleague Lalic, then you will determine when the time is up to coma. But finish it, Mr. Vice President, please, in the final sentence. One sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43773	Thank you very much, Mr. President. No one argues that there were both crime and illegal activities in the privatisation process. But I also ask you nicely, the Government had a great opportunity from 2000 to 2004, to sanction, to change things and to stick to what was the task defined and to the conclusion of the 2002 Croatian Parliament, however it was not done.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43774	Thank you very much. You have a chance to answer that. Now we have only seven corrections of incorrect allegations. First, distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43775	Inaccurately, the Deputy Prime Minister said the government in 2000 was engaged in moving the burden of privatisation to the HDZ, as he said. In 2000, the government dealt with a burden that was in the economy, and this negative trend in the economy, a negative growth rate of 09%, over 400 thousand unemployed, over 150 thousand workers who had been irregularly paid, companies were highly non-equitable and social. For example, companies found in the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund daily achieved several million kuna losses. It was a burden dealing with power in 2000, but it also passed the Law on Auditing, Conversion and Privatisation, which confirmed all the facts that were presented by 2001.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43776	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43777	It is incorrect, and very regrettable that he claimed by the Deputy Prime Minister that irregularities were not illegal. It's a new principle of probably legality. Any irregularity is a violation of the law or any other legal norm. Furthermore, it is incorrect and who knows which times, it seems that you are not present, where we quote what the Government is saying, which opposes the incrimination of economic crime, was the last time last year. During the government of Ivica Racan, the Penal Code was changed precisely on the trail of these changes, allowing USKOK to work, the ministry gave up its own space to have USKOK. 88 vehicles were given to the judiciary, 60 computers only went to USKOK, employees of new people, and the ministry remained exactly in the old place, did not expand into new spaces to enable judicial authorities to work normally, based on this conclusion. And now you stop it, you change the Penal Code, you don't want to change what you've hitched, and we've changed. And you keep telling us who knows which way, so it's not worthy of the president, the vice president of the government to act like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43778	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43779	He incorrectly argued that the Deputy Prime Minister was incorrectly and unfounded that 93% of companies, audited enterprises, were executed 95% in an illegal and illegal manner. It's obvious our Deputy Prime Minister has a problem with information again, and that's nothing new. Such problems were also in the case of Liburni, because if the Deputy Prime Minister had taken the State Audit Office Report, then he would have seen that these were data that were not presented by opposition deputies but were the findings of the State Audit Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43780	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43781	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Vice President who said that the government has done nothing according to these conclusions that the Parliament has made, that is incorrect. The government has done everything, unfortunately things have fallen in this House. They fell for the second time when we changed the Penal Code because you HDZ brought him down in the Constitutional Court. And secondly, changes fell, i.e. the new Single Taxation Act...... I'm asking you nicely. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Those are the facts, gentlemen, that you can't handle it, I'm sorry. In this House, therefore, the government proposed a single taxation law. Unfortunately, in this House, only SDP and Libra clubs voted for the law. So that law didn't get support. He did not receive the support of the majority in this House or last year when we proposed him. And that is why, once again, nothing in this country has changed when it comes to sanctioning crime in conversion because there was no will in this House, it is not today either.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43782	The motion to abolish for the formal counter-constitution of the Penal Code has been filed with the exception of the HDZ Representatives' Club and the Croatian Helsinki Committee. His President Zarko Puhovski and others, so HDZ did not bring down the law. So, no party but was abolished by the Constitutional Court as will happen to us with several other laws soon to be abolished for the sake of formal counter-constitution, which was also brought by this assembly's assembly, but also by the law passed by the previous assembly of parliaments. Because such an interpretation of the Constitution is that, under the terms of the Constitution of established rights and freedoms, it is understood by organic law. So any law passed by the Croatian Parliament can be considered as discussing the Constitution established rights and freedoms of man and citizen. And that it takes a qualified majority, and that depends then no longer on the Croatian Assembly but depends on this building over, so we have to think about it. ... If we had voted, we would have passed... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, we just wouldn't have time-consuming deadlines because it can't be retroactively applied. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43783	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm correcting the quote of the vice president of the government who said it wasn't the sin of the one who did it. It was the sin of the one who didn't do it. It's one completely wrong setting. It is clear to me that only putting on the agenda the May 2002 conclusion debate was actually meant to cloud who actually made the sin. Sin was made when the laws on the revision of conversion and privatisation were passed and when the process of conversion and privatisation took place. It is true that the government mentioned here did not do some of the things that were assigned to this House, but sin cannot be on the one who did not, but sin is on the one who did. I remind you, we are if nothing else passed the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation in 2001. And if we hadn't passed that Law, if we hadn't proposed it, there wouldn't be today's debate. There wouldn't be a final report from the State Audit Office, there wouldn't be any of these indications that we've been discussing these two days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43784	And the sin seems to be, how familiar it is to us, and the failure, is it? Pass. Honorable representative Damir Cain, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43785	Your Honor, Mr. President. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec claimed that coupon privatisation was a noble idea. As for something, gentlemen, which has taken over, it is an incorrect allegation, which has taken over 20 individuals. Not those two hundred Tudjman families to say it's noble. Over 3 billion marks of property taken over by 20 people in the Republic of Croatia are in play. I'm not going to mention these Elco Jose funds now. The PIF expansion was second in power. 597 million marks heavy. Tudjman's grandson, I said, weighed 430 million marks, had stakes in 197 companies. The Slavonian Privatisation Fund, today it's the Hypo Bank, was heavy 423 million marks. They had stakes in 259 companies. PIF Velebit was weighing 393 million marks behind which the Dalmatian Bank was standing, that's Bitor and Bubalo, and then they sold Cherlomen to this fund. The PIF Sun was heavy 315 million marks and finally, Cacic's wares bought some of the hotels and banks, and the 98th was this Plekler Fund, 7th in strength, 233 million marks. It was property worth 3 billion marks, gentlemen, which is now controlled by 20 non-family, individuals, come on family.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43786	It was an idea, and from idea to performance is a long way to go and... Dear Representative Josip Leko, correction of the incorrect allegations. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43787	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr Polancec, two incorrect claims. He says directly that HDZ is not the same and is not responsible for privatisation, he means today's HDZ. Have him agree with the president of the HDZ Club who said HDZ accepts part of the responsibility for the privatisation process. So who's right? Apparently, Mr. Vice-President of the Government uses the facts selectively when he claims that the Government of the Racan government has done nothing according to its conclusions. If nothing else, she brought before the citizens a State Audit that determined what kind of privatisation was in Croatian, and also passed the Law on the Criminal Persecution of those who have sinned about privatisation. Such a selective approach cloudes the responsibility of HDZ, which the president of the HDZ Club spoke of and admitted to the Croatian public that he was co-responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43788	The president of the HDZ Club is in the hospital, he'll be there for 10 days. So he couldn't talk. And on the identity of the parties, I think it would be better not to mention the reformed parties and the reformed HDZ, or the SDP, or anyone. [[Well, well, who was talking on behalf of the club.]] That's what we leave, I mean it's not for Parliament to discuss where we're the same. [[/Intruder: Why not?]] Yeah. [[I didn't start it.]] We're the same, we're just a little older, we're all together. Except for the ladies. Except for the ladies. You're eternally young. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43789	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43790	While you were discussing the rabbit, I announced we were working without a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43791	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my presentation, I will first ask a few questions that are being heard here, yesterday and today, whose answer is in the State Audit and State's Attorney's Office documents. So the questions are why is it always said that the Croatian Democratic Community as the holder of the majority government at the time has abolished 300 to 400 thousand jobs, when it is clear to you all that it is not. And second, why is it always claimed that this same government is guilty of billions of dollars and marks of the then abroad when you realize that it is not. In fact, you have had 4 years to correct by respecting the Parliament's decision quoted here several times, and as far as billions of euros are concerned, it is not your fault that Mr Mesic, the president of the state, promised to return them, has not returned them for five years yet, why. Because your fiction is the guilt of the Croatian Democratic Community. Your fiction which, both this time and this debate, was supposed to repeat, I don't know what time the lie is, it's your fault that 400 jobs have been lifted and that billions of dollars have gone abroad. What happened in the 90th we inherited, as I reminded you yesterday of the economy in such a state that it simply wasn't a valuable factory, a valuable company, I'm going to repeat just a few basic elements from that year's Statistical Vesnik. Total expenditure increased 17.5% faster than income, inflation at the end of the 1990s was 600.9%, losses 5 and a half times the accumulation. I remind 50% of companies' debts were greater than total assets. At the end of 1990, there were 200 thousand unemployed, and now there are 400 thousand and 400 thousand employees who have received salaries on the burden of new duties of their businesses, and these duties are covered by this hyperinflation, there are 400 thousand jobs that have automatically failed at the time of the suspension of such payment, so the salaries of debt and cover with hyperinflation. That way, everything that needed to be privatized was unscathed, so we had to continue to drive in that dirtbag, which is a scrawny, and which works on the reserve of its tank, with such a piece of shit, could not be made a good store. Four hundred thousand jobs were fictitious in the late 1990s when we took power. What happened to that piece of shit on August 17th, 90th, was thrown before her by Serbian balvanies, followed by a 7-year war nobody here said. In the 7 years of the war, I repeat 7 years of war, the economy is further desecrated shit has been brought to nothing. In those and those seven years of war, gross national income has fallen 50% as well as you know. In these and such 7 years, the state's defence costs have increased by 40% and productivity has fallen by 50% and under these and such conditions, and such companies have been privatized. And finally, in these and such war conditions, 30% of economic operators are physically downgraded, which is 180 thousand jobs, which is the new 180 thousand jobs that you attribute to the Croatian Democratic Community. So when we sum it up with those 400 thousand fictitious ones that we inherited in the 90's, here's the answer to where the jobs are. We say, of course, and the privatisation has failed jobs, because the new owner could no longer pay for the burden of debt, he entered market relations, there were also illegal shops and you have a clear public audit report ahead of you, but the state audit did not say 93% of the crime, 93% of the irregularities said. And of all these irregularities, there were poor 4,56%. So you don't trust a state audit to say that it underestimated her, you don't trust the State's Attorney's office who confirmed that the number of these crimes was minimal, you don't trust a privatisation fund that you say misrepresented in his report that there were no crimes. If we don't trust the State Audit, if we don't trust the State's Attorney's Office, if we don't trust the Privatisation Fund, we're left with courts. But I have the impression that you don't trust the courts either because several times you said the courts are too weak to punish. We won't affect the courts if you do. What happened? There has been a historic period of 17 years, a 10-year total collapse of self-management and a catastrophic economic communist situation, which has finally led to this communism or some to call it and beat socialism in all countries of Europe. After that, seven years of dirty war that is collapsing and under these conditions is privatization. This privatisation is responsible for my judgment and I am entitled to it for 10% of these terrible consequences and you leave that 90% to the truth and the figures. I think that in this debate today, this kind of diagnosis has been confirmed, because the finding of a state audit of 93% of irregularities does not criminalise anyone, warns of irregularities, and irregularities have been in the light of the consequences of complex and unadjusted laws, and for one part of that time, the authorities assume their guilt and just to point out, the state's revision of state conversion has not started since 1991, it has been going on since we started 1048 criminal charges, much more than this last revision. As it ended in court, why it's only 41 indictments, I don't interfere with the judiciary, but I believe that justice is still available. What you wanted to represent again in this debate with the Croatian regiment is here they are guilty of 400 thousand jobs and several billion jobs. I have denied the jobs with arguments, and billions have denied the findings and the state audits, the state's attorney's office where the damage to the one where the crime has been proven comes down to 890 million marks and, of course, punish the guilty and should be discovered further and if new culprits deserve punishment. But these are not billions that were destroyed between 2000 and 2004 only in a few privatisations. By privatising Croatian telecommunications, the state lost more than the entire privatisation of the rest of the economy because we paid over 3 billion kuna for 3 years. Not to mention further the monopoly privatisation of INA where a new co-owner for 25% of the shares gets a decisive say in managing why INA suffers and in the future can turn from production to a ordinary trading house with its gas stations, without the investments it needs to produce. So, this debate failed to prove either one or the other thesis and I think we should start trusting the state institutions once, let them work on it, let the state institutions get you out and the last thief out of that bag, and unfortunately for you one conclusion, I need a little bit more on zoology. You drove the rabbit away, drove the wolf away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43792	Thank you. We have a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First, a respected representative, Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43793	I want to correct the incorrect quote of fellow Hebrang, who said that HDZ's guilt is in the process of transforming and privatising SDP fiction. It is true that the guilt of HDZ or the ruling structures of HDZ at that time is not the fiction of the SDP, but the findings of the state audit. The fact that there were no crimes in the finding of the audit lies in the fact that then-wrong structures as they were called refused to criminally declare robberies in the conversion and privatisation or economic robbery just as you do today for the former and future privatisations. It's been repeated a few times. He refuses to declare a criminal act what is a robbery and it has arisen in privatisation and conversion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43794	Second correction by the respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43795	I'm correcting the same assumption that I find incorrect, so the HDZ guilt is our fiction. That's incorrect. We believe that HDZ created a political environment for such privatisation and that is how Mrs Chikesh confirmed yesterday when she said that the late President Tudjman decided with 200 families to keep Croatia from going into other people's hands and was doing it precisely because of those who are not nationalally aware. So, we really have a position today to have one small number of rich people and all the other citizens on social services at the Employment Office. Unfortunately, it's too small for those who work.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43796	Third correction, respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43797	Well, I also read Professor Hebrang's presentation yesterday, and I think it was a constructive exhibition, and I'm reporting to praise his attempt to put in the historical context the economic crisis of Croatia but to correct an incorrect allegation. He said that the Croatian economy in the 1990s was some kind of old piece of shit that wasn't exactly true. It's not actually true according to Eve Vinsky's research. The national wealth of those years was over 300 billion dollars. Finally, it is very important not to forget that war damages are estimated at $25 billion, according to a formal request by the Croatian state before the court of justice in The Hague. Thus, speaking cannot forget the influence of the factors that Professor Hebrang was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43798	Thank you. And a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43799	Well, in the first part, very similar to what Letica's colleague said was, first of all, incorrect and very irresponsible and far-fetched what was created in the decades of '45. by the torment of the workers to call the old piece of shit. In addition to that amount, the audit found that this piece of shit was even richer for the value of 485 million marks at the time, that even more assets worth 124 million marks were estimated and that overestimated liabilities were, of course, to create a picture of that piece of shit you're talking about. And one more thing. You are completely incorrectly reading the findings of the State's Attorney's Office which say that he is sad, it is simply vividly said that they are not satisfied with the process and the persecution of economic crime because they lack new incriminations where these conducts could adequately be prosecuted and then later before the court to experience their end in punishment. And so, as far as zoology is concerned, we can claim that the wolf really changes hair but not wonder.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43800	Lupus and fabula. We have two replicas. First, he's a respected representative, Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43801	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Hebrang claimed that privatisation in Croatia was legal. Well, that's what we're saying. That's the problem. And the consequences of this legal privatisation in Croatian only in banks are that without the addition of the recovery of the old foreign currency savings of 20 billion kuna, Croatia has lost 2 billion kuna. If that's what you're saying, it was legal and it was designed, then you're making a good claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43802	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43803	I didn't claim that privatisation was legal. That's what the State's Attorney's office argues, the State's audit argues, and that's what the courts claim because they only prosecuted 4.6% of those culprits. Therefore, I cannot be a judge over judges just as I cannot possibly understand that the national economy is of strategic importance in the hands of national wealth. Which is why Mrs. Lucia's meal so much when we read last week that France announced that her dairy industry is of strategic interest and will not be sold to a foreign country and a few weeks before that it was also published for the chocolate industry in Belgium. Is it a shame to preserve your natural wealth? Well, thank God we have more agro-cores, we wouldn't have to pay margins with foreign chains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43804	And another replica honoured Vice President Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43805	The Honorable representative Hebrang spoke and claimed that the SDP debate was going in this direction not to believe both the State Audit and the Courts, seeking some stricter court rulings. And I would point out that I cannot believe that we are ready to accept the cross of the Croatian Democratic Community of our party's past. And you're probably sorry and you can't accept it, and I want to replicate it to you and you're sad that those participants of coupon privatisation and their privatisations are no longer sitting in our benches. So the new HDZ is in action that is ready to accept the legacy of its past. I wonder if you're willing to accept the legacy of your party's past in '71. Badger, Bleiburg, and the disarmament of territorial defense in '90. when you have greatly weakened the defence power of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43806	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43807	I'm supplementing Mr. Milinovic's exposure with the Savudrija wave.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43808	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43809	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen! Here, I would like to join the debate on privatisation and conversion because I think it is a very important topic and that an objective consideration should be considered. Yesterday, a day-long debate said that one MP had said more well about politicisation than privatisation. The opposition debate was not productive and focused on clearing up some privatisation dubios. I'd rather say she was positive and focused on collecting political points. It's a kind of public submission that's served a lot of thesis and we've been expecting arguments. The fact is that privatisation took place at a time when most companies were underprivileged, when losses were 5.5 times higher than accumulation, when each other had twice the debt of assets. It was poored until the 1990s and additionally during the war. It was also not realistic to expect capital from abroad to help solve the accumulated problems in companies, given then still great uncertainty and the risk of business. Many companies saw an exit to privatisation because they were aware of the difficult financial situation in their companies. The fact is that workers who received or had shares were selling their shares at any price, of course low because at that time it could not have been a large stock price given the value of the company. The fact that workers were selling because they needed every kuna for life and the savings and supplies they had were exhausted and spent in exile, property destroyed during the war. The fact is that the majority did not even believe in a new form of ownership, did not believe in the achievement of profits, i.e. dividends. Even a lot of people looked at the new system in the Croatian economy and didn't trust that any profits would ever come and sold their shares unfortunately. And maybe the reason they wanted to get rid of the stock quickly was because they knew best what the state of business they were working in. Honestly, what bothers me is that during the debate, there were no positive examples of privatisations that were and were largely mentioned. Honestly... that the deficiencies and irregularities of the document are made and if necessary sanctioned, but I am against the flat-rate assessments that lead to the error of the Croatian public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I particularly welcome the Government's proposal to extend the deadline for the implementation of privatisation, revision, conversion and privatisation so that it is complete and comprehensive. And since Agent Ingrid Anticevic said that you are not reading the state's attorney's report well here, then I will read what is very important to me. The adoption of the Law on Revision, Conversion, Privatisation on 8 May 2001 and the start of the work of the State Office on the revision of Conversion and Privatisation practically cares about the submission of new criminal applications. Because different initiatives, complaints and requests were submitted in accordance with Article 5. The Law on Audit, Conversion and Privatisation, State Audit Office. For this reason, only 20 registered persons are recorded from 2002 to 20 May 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43810	That replica is too late. Dear Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43811	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The question of whether we should have audited the conversion, I think we can really say today and that there are no big poles, should we be satisfied with the work of the State Audit Office, we all said in two days an extraordinary job, a great effort, a short time, and we have a good result of the work done. Well, that's where we don't get along. That's where we part ways. And it doesn't matter if we convince each other, we're here to let the citizens see the difference between us. Yes, gentlemen, 93% of illegality, irregularities, immorality is this tragic result established by the state audit. As we interpret it, that's where we differ, the citizens will see the difference between us. We're here to let the citizens see how we approach it. HDZ finds socialism guilty, false aggression and no one else, perhaps little and they themselves, not them, those who participated in privatisation. We in the SDP are very clear, 93% illegality, irregularities, that's what is the responsibility of anyone who participated in privatisation. It's not the biggest tragedy, the biggest tragedy is the 800 thousand jobs, 400 thousand established according to the audit report, 400 thousand created pensioners who are young retired and the burden of the pension fund that will always be a burden... in the Republic of Croatia, 800,000 jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, all 800,000 are the consequences of crime, irregularities, illegality, immorality in conversion. And that's where we differ, and we don't have to think the same thing. It is the people who will say that, we agree, guilty socialism, or vice versa, that the participants in the conversion and privatisation and those who simply did not sanction all this. That's what made it possible for us to have different approaches and that citizens would judge us and I'd say they're assessing us. The most difficult report I have today and could get is a report from the state's attorney's office that provided very clear information about how little has been processed and how few have been punished. And instead of opening a debate today about the judiciary. Is it possible that 800,000 jobs are destroyed, 93% irregularity, illegality in law enforcement, and we have a mild punishment for justice, a mild punishment and established illegality, a mild punishment. Did we have to talk here in the Parliament that we do not agree with such judicial procedures, that the judiciary is not able to look kindly at the illegality that is taking away 800,000 jobs in Croatia? A few of those discussions were here and we didn't want to open that debate. It may not work in the past, but tomorrow we want the judiciary to be an effective, quick and strict punishment in economic crime. After these discussions, unfortunately this judiciary will not change significantly. And it remains the most difficult thing, we see the results, we see the processes, we see and maybe we're overall dissatisfied with the judiciary that didn't sanction sharply, and a little example of what they're going to do about it in the House. Well, you see, and that's where we differ, we're really different. HDZ believes it will not change the criminal procedure, will not impose special taxes on those who have become rich. We in the SDP have been trying for three years to change criminal proceedings, to raise laws, to punish economic crime. We're trying to go through the full two times with the law of the criminal one time, according to those who got rich, in which we differ, that's what citizens have to see. And that's why this debate has to show where there's a difference between us and why we don't make it. So it is a problem where we will probably differ in the conclusions we have proposed in the Croatian Parliament, because we have proposed them. Now I'd go back to... Privatisation, because I believe that this revision has helped us greatly, that these are not completed procedures and that much more will happen in the coupon privatisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The culture of the Assembly attorney won't allow me to use these few minutes so that Mr. Polancec can't answer the unspeakable lies, but you can see there's a message of our differences. The State's Attorney's Office, the audit of the large-scale stock exchange, is not in accordance with the Regulation. The replacement could not be carried out directly, the principle that the fund's portfolio was not destroyed is not respected, the participants were not in the same position, in particular some... and the exchange decision was not made by the management fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are all stock exchange procedures. The state's attorney's office, says in some cases valuable shares were given by a fund for completely destroyed companies, which damaged the Privatisation Fund and a clear message of the attorney's office still examines the responsibility of the persons who worked on these processes. When you have this information, then I ask you if you're going to go on a deal with those who participated in such substitution processes, not legally, still the state's attorney's office hasn't said his word, and you need to speculate. No! No! We're not the ones who wanted to speculate. We're not the ones who pulled the lawsuits. The court proceedings were dropped: Count Eltz, Ostora and others from... Because it wasn't enough for them to rob the victims of the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just for comparison: a crime in Reebok where a Hungarian citizen of ours has won a sudden fortune has been taken away. Right now. Because it was considered to have been used to provide information on the management of the company. Both our laws and our institutions should have taken that away. No, they're not. But there's still time. With incorrect information, abuse of Ostoj's information, Eltz, I'm sorry I won't have names, funds, PIFs, holding companies that inherited them, they took shares of the victims of the Homeland War. They're the ones who put the values in their pocket. We have to get them back. Is that how you negotiate with someone like that? No, I don't. We didn't have a chance. But we haven't had our differences as we wish. They're insatiable and they wanted that property. Yeah, that's true. For the State's Attorney's Office. Imagine legal uncertainty. Arbitrations are in motion. Three arbitrations receive the Croatian Privatisation Fund. We're losing one. These two were later lost during today's government. Three wins, one loses. Do you know what legal uncertainty is? According to the same case, arbitration judges take different views. Is that legal security? Is that what we want to send our financiers out? No, it's not. And obviously it's not because of knowledge or a different approach. And that's why the State's Attorney's office has to see how it happens that we have different attitudes on the same subject in five days. And of course always with this Fund. Yeah. I am openly doubting whether such legal uncertainty is possible? That's what burdened us. And now for the exchange of shares and the business of Liburnia. The river of arbitration was 570 million with all interest until May this year. 570 million. This is what Mr Polancec and the Croatian Government should pay for and conduct further disputes. Mr. Polancec is doing a good job. A bit of a technical problem with the lack of honest people in the Fund and a billion 200 million leftovers and Eltz. To those I would say to take away all dignity for having deceived the victims of the Homeland War. Instead of 570 he gives them a billion and 200. He's giving them money the Fund shouldn't give. They're lawsuits against the Croatian state. The lawsuits for which the State's Attorney's Office wrote: "I can't get them from the PIFs. They don't have the strength. The Croatian state will receive them." Despite such assessments, the Croatian government gives another 660 million kuna, 660 million kuna. It's not an arbitral drug. That's what was given to these people. And that's why Liburnia is a problem. And by the way, it's not Liburnia million and 200. Someone says two billion. So for what was to be paid 500 million and 70, 570 million maybe 2 billion. Yes, gentlemen. That's why Liburnia will move again. That's why review needs to be done again, and that's why coupon privatisation And it must certainly be... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43812	Time's up. Thank you. Corrections to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll fix at least a few, and later on, I'll look back at what I've just heard. Not exactly, Mr. Linic. You have incorrectly stated that 93% is illegal. You've really been dealing with illegality instead of irregularities. That's what we've been talking about. Therefore, do not deceive the public. Irregularities are precisely defined by the exact percentage. Second, you said 800,000 unemployed. They are exclusively due to this Act on Conversion and Privatisation. It's a monstrosity lie. Monstrous. I don't know which country you lived in, my colleague Linic, but we lived in this country where the war was. To impose a war that lasted seven years and had its consequences. And the big consequences of the economy and the employment. If so, it should remind you of areas of special state concern. It should remind you how many jobs have been lost there, how many human lives have been lost. Not jobs, human lives. You're making a monstrous lie that way. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43814	Thank you. Time's up. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of a respected counterpart, Linic, in which he found that the general problem in the Croatian judiciary is because of the non-resolvement of cases. I would remind you that before you the general problem was and that you identified that the problem was also in the State Audit, which did not use Article 18 and made a ban on further management of all companies where illegality was established. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43816	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43817	I would correct the incorrect allegation of the esteemed Mr. Linic, who said explicitly: "The conversion and privatisation destroyed, so 800,000 jobs were destroyed." This allegation is absolutely not true, nor is the conversion and privatisation the only and only culprit of a truly high unemployment rate. So this is an absolute and incorrect figure, and in general comment on this data in the way you did it without respecting the elements of the war consequences, direct and indirect, the structures of the inherited economy, the inherited economy, the failed markets are indeed incorrect for you as experts in the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43818	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is entirely wrong that HDZ and SDP agree on several of these chapters for the revision. Because actually Mr. Linic belongs to the party that, we heard today on several occasions said That he doesn't believe, forgive me, that he doesn't trust the State Audit. [[Insect: Insect! No, no, no, where we agree. That's not true.]] We do. He doesn't trust the D.A.'s office, he doesn't trust the courts, but since he can't change the power of the station's election, he's getting a line of dangerous parties, so all he's got is a revolution and a proletariat dictatorship, I guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43820	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the honourable representative of Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43821	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And counterpart Linic said that HDZ, or the conversion process, is guilty of losing and destroying 800,000 jobs. That's absolutely, my colleagues have already said, it's absolutely incorrect. I will remind him only that, that the former government inherited from 1.1.2000, 365, according to statistics, thousands of unemployed and left the current government of the Croatian Democratic Community 415 thousand unemployed. That's part of it. On the other hand, through the reprogrammed bankruptcy, I can say that the economy of Dalmatia has been destroyed. I'll only mention the Dalmatian girl, Sinj d.d., Biocom and so on where de facto only 10% of the people worked after the bankruptcy. And on the other hand, it is no wonder that today, in his replicas, he claimed: that it is possible to perform a robbery on the Rijeka Bank model, he himself said it was about $100 million, and by the way that the state earned EUR 20 million. It's an outrageous thing and it's kind of a message to the electoral body, to the Croatian public that it can sort of overlap. Robbery and state interest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43822	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of the Dance, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43823	Yeah. Thank you very much. Well, here's the thing. Mr. Linic spoke in his debate about the responsibility or irresponsibility of this government and how this government acted in particular in the case of the Liburnia. I must remind you of what the government in which you were vice president worked with the case of "Sun Hvar" and the privatisation of "Sun Hvar". I'm going to quote you that you personally said that you were not deceived by any decision, and I am now convinced that I would not change my decision, and that I can be responsible for that, and since we're talking about it, I don't want responsibility to be avoided. We decided, our decision affected the government's decision. It's up to us to decide. It's our responsibility to decide. That's your quote. A few days after that, the board of directors of the fund you were in was removed. So instead of Slavko Linic as president, Ljuba Jurčić, Bozidar Pankretić, Pave Župan-Ruskovic and Mate Church, Ljubo Jurčić came as president, Slavko Linić, Željko Pecek, Damir Kuštrak and Radimir Cacic. The same, the same people or almost the same people only in the changed roles, and responsibility or no responsibility says the same as the Prime Minister, whom you have proposed to privatise "Sun Hvar". On 23 January 2003, Prime Minister Ivica Racan signed a decision on the sale of shares of the company "Suncani Hvar". On February 6th of that year, the same Prime Minister signed a decision not to accept bids for the purchase of shares of the company "Suncani Hvar". Such a copernican turn in 14 days from the Prime Minister of a country was all just not a serious and responsible move. The question is which way and where were all the signatures in such a short time changed that same president of your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43824	Thank you. The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Polancec. No reply to the replica was requested.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43825	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs. I'll just have a few words to comment on. So, problems with coupon privatisation or disputes stemming from coupon privatisation, disputes which are primarily related to the agreement on the holding of shares, the remuneration of shares between the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the PIFs, and, once again, I would like to ask you that you have all heard me loud and clear that I have spoken about what irregularities have been identified in the process of coupon privatisation, which have been established by the State Audit Office, which has been confirmed by the State Attorney's Office, which neither the Croatian Privatisation Fund nor the Croatian Government. However, once again, I am going back to how the problem that was caused in the years of '97, the eighth, ninth could have been solved in 2000 and how much wiser we really should have been perhaps in finding a solution in which we will resolve it. Mr. Parliamentarian Linic calls for the views of the State Audit, calls for the positions of the State Attorney's Office, so let me also call on some of the documents available to me and based on which I managed, among other things, on the basis of talks with a college of the Privatisation Fund and the legal sector of the Privatisation Fund before we made the decision. Let them not be my interpretations, but be my reading or quoting of some documents which were available of course and then to Mr Linić and all other members of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund. In the find of the State Audit Office when we talk about coupon privatisation, when we talk about these problems that we're in, when we talk about the fact that we need to end this story in some way or that we have a problem that's open, and the problem was open because there were contracts that weren't consummated. The State Audit Office, among other things, states, quote. "It is necessary to end the procedures for the transfer of shares to privatisation investment funds where the replacements should be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation on the terms and conditions of the exchange of shares or shares, or in agreement with the Management Board." This is one document that I would like to quote. The second document I want to quote is a report from the legal sector of the Privatisation Fund that was filed, and now I've taken two of the same materials, so I won't quote the Legal Sector Report. I'll quote what the president of the Fund's college wrote and put on the agenda. The material that he put on the agenda of the Fund Management Board, where it stands among other things. "The possible submission of the action to determine the invalidity of the agreement on the remuneration of shares in the coupon privatisation programme. Except that the very uncertain outcome of the HFP dispute itself could cause further damage. We owe it to all of these reasons here to present a reserve on success in such a dispute, and to warn the Management Board of the Fund at high litigation costs which should be paid by the Fund in the event of a loss of litigation, etc. etc. When we talk about the state's attorney's exhibit regarding all these disputes, and let's remind all of us, of course Mr. Linic is right, so the Fund didn't run. The fund was launched, he actually wanted to break the contracts, and the PIFs then launched arbitration. When we lost three arbitrations, and three of us got it, it was right once again, we turned to this way of solving the problem then tried by means of legal means to undo Croatian Chamber of Commerce even though we had warnings that such litigation could also cause. So when we went to a lawsuit at the Trade Court for the annulment of the Rivers, we lost one lawsuit, which also confirmed the rightful word of arbitration. One was still alive. The one we lost, we filed a complaint and that's what we should say, but in the meantime, the PIFs joined together, and five sued the state for lost profit. Now that we're talking about what our chances are in our disputes about the annulment of the acquis, and when we call on the State's Attorney's office, I'll quote again. Finally, we draw attention to the fact that the proceedings at the Commercial Court in Zagreb are pending for the sake of the annulment of the acquis, which is the basis of which the claims of the holding company continue to exist, and that the assessment that the same procedures will obviously fail to be carried out by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, etc. etc. Now look! I, therefore, was in charge of these problems as well as the findings of the State Office for Auditing, Management and Opinions of the complete College of the Privatisation Fund, the legal sector of the Privatisation Fund and the Occupancy and Materials and the State Attorney's Office. Finally, on a proposal from the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, the State Attorney's Office has shown that all disputes are resolved peacefully. Our goal and our interest, Mr. Linic, is not absolutely opposite, but identical. Minimise the damage caused by a vague and inadequate legal solution procedure and by the rules in the coupon privatisation. We have a common goal, but to this common goal, we had to bend as much as possible. The result of a dispute resolution may eventually result in disputes in some time, but the consequence of the non-resolvement of disputes to this day is the growth of interest to a height of more than 500 million kuna to today's moment. You know as well as I do. So instead of discussing it for 3 years, 4 years, 5 years, I think we should have been wise or you should have been wise and found solutions in 2000 when the cost of repairing the damage could have been anywhere and where lower than what they are today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43826	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43827	The audit is about replacing the shares after the first replacement, which has not been done, which has nothing to do with the procedures stopped. Therefore, read the review as it says. Also, the suggestion not to go to the lawsuit was accepted and the Fund did not go to trial. The lawsuits have been initiated by the PIFs and we have defended ourselves, because we cannot accept that someone unfounded looting Croatian citizens. And also, three arbitrations were obtained, one was lost during the coalition government, three. Which shows we were right to conduct the arbitration. And it also says clearly, you could have paid the damage by the river, 570 million. The state's attorney's office wrote, I can't get the PIFs to sue for damages. You've admitted 650 million although the State's Attorney's Office has written, don't take such a deal. You gave away the will of the State's Attorney's office 670, no verdict was passed, it was yet to be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43828	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43829	We're talking about 650 million damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43830	Thank you. Time's up. The word has a distinguished representative, Ratko Gajica. It's not the hall. Honorable representative of the Mato Church. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This debate has really raised a number of issues, obviously and historically, not only current, so let me look back, of course, on the fact that we received quality materials in front of us and from the Croatian Privatisation Fund and from the State Audit and the State Attorney's Office and from the Government and DABA representatives. So, all relevant institutions. The data we've received says indeed, and no one has disputed, that in this process of conversion and privatisation there have been a lot of irregularities, that there have been irregularities that have been characterized as criminal acts and that there have been many more, many more processes. However, here it seems to be trying to forget that this is not the 200th year and that there has been conversion and privatisation since 2000 and that we have it today, also the process of privatisation in action. Here it is constantly trying to forget the four-year action of the former, Racan, coalition government, or more specifically, and inaction, not only of action, but of inaction. What kind of action was that? Well, they're just saying, as far as privatisation was concerned, it was a crime, it was a robbery. I will mention only the sale of Dubrovnik Bank, the sale of one bank by the State Agency, with the consent of, of course, all of you who sat down, all those who sat in the board of directors, the board of directors of the same institution. Then the Dubrovnik Bank was sold a few years ago at the time of Racan's government for about 170 million kuna. For about 170 million kunas. Rescheduled bank, rescheduled, for 170 million kuna. At the same time, the state was obliged to make up for what was excluded from the portfolio of the same Dubrovnik Bank, as much as my memory reminds me, I mean 310 million kuna by the beginning of 2005. So, on the one hand, the State Agency, which is headed by a high-ranking HSS officer at that time, whose board is being held by government representatives, is selling one bank for 170 million kuna, one fund, not a bank, but a fund,... The fund, as it was called, who later resold that bank, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It became a new bank, so now it's owned by some party bank, OTP, I think that's what it's called, although in Dubrovnik it doesn't know what it's called, or who owns it. So the state had to allocate 310 million kunas to that new owner who had allocated 170 million kuna within 2 years. Well, what's mine? What if it wasn't a robbery, if it wasn't a robbery of state property? What's that? What do you call it, colleagues? What do you call such an apparent robbery? The moment HDZ came to power in 2004, I asked the finance minister to see what kind of contract it was and to break the contract, if possible. I was told that, unfortunately, under the same contract, the termination of the contract would cause even greater damage to the state. How is it possible for a serious government to sell its assets for 170 million and then still have to pay that same owner back, give 310 million kuna? How is that possible? But obviously it was possible, at the time of Racan's government, it was obviously the same thing as possible. Let's move on, let's go to the Rijeka Bank case. They all found that the damage was found to be hundreds of millions of kunas. I will not speak in dollar terms, because we are talking about kuna amounts, we are in the state of Croatia. So it's about damage to hundreds of millions of kunas. Today I'm reading somewhere in the paper that some of the actors are going to be called the same robbery, because what else is supposed to be called a director. It's probably possible. Anything seems possible. We're moving on with the Excelsior Hotel sale. It was also privatised during Racan's government while some of his colleagues were sitting, also on the fund's board of directors. So there were several offers, among other things a worldwide chain appeared with an offer of over 30 million marks, deutsch marks, to buy the hotel. In parallel, one of the economics whose work I am not questioning, the man had good acquaintances, excellent acquaintances with the members of the board of directors, the board of directors, as it is already called, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and he received this Hotel for a million and 200 thousand marks. With not even paying cash for it, he gave 600,000 marks of cash, and 600 were reportedly invested in the reconstruction of the hotel, which was otherwise renovated with state resources somewhere in the amount of 30 million marks. And of course, what did he do next? He probably reprogrammed, not likely, but certainly reprogrammed the same debt that this hotel had and actually got the Hotel for 600 thousand marks, instead of the state earning 30, over 30 million marks and still getting the world's chain. What do you call that piece of work? I call her a robbery. I call her a robbery. Let's move on with concrete arguments. When the HDZ in this House last year asked court suggestions to make authentic interpretations regarding the concept of "social property" only for the sole reason why the concept of social property should not be kept and not identified with the concept of social property. Why? Because the courts who process and today process these illegalities in the conversion and privatisation of the concept of social property under the law interpreted exclusively as social property and simply limited it to property that no longer exists and it was a difficult circumstance for the courts because they could not make decisions on something that did not exist and they asked that social property be sought, that the notion of authentic interpretation. We here in the Croatian Parliament were the views of the majority, the HDZ's majority was the view that this concept should be extended to total social property such as a gross social product that does not know the owner of ownership, that is to say total property. This opened up the possibility for courts to include all those who did illegal work in this process. That's how you were against it. You SDP didn't want that kind of authentic interpretation to be adopted. You clearly said here in the Croatian Parliament, so it was a few months ago, it was recently happening. We wanted to and made it easier for the courts to interpret social property, to give them the opportunity for those who were illegally rich to bear conjecture. The other thing here is, unfortunately, from one of the lawyers in your ranks, there's been a throw-off that it's about the formalistic approach of the HDZ on this issue because, as you want to prosecute the privatisation and conversion actors. Well, you know very well, unfortunately, I'm sorry that Mr. Josipovic, who is otherwise an expert in law, is not here today among us, and probably for a reason is not among you today. Probably for a reason. Because what's said in this context is that it's a formalistic approach, it means that you deny fundamental, legal and civilizational principles because you know very well that if something by law is not prescribed as a criminal act at the time of the crime, that such acts cannot be subsequently found as criminal acts. You know that very well. If this were to be done, then the legal and civilizational principles that are the basis of today's civilization, today's right, would indeed collapse. The lawyers know that very well. I'm sorry that Mr. Josipovic wasn't there and he didn't hear it, I'm sure he would react, because I believe he would protect his profession first of all and everything he represents, because it's tragic that it comes from the mouth of a lawyer from the line of the SDP. We agree there was an irregularity. Let's do everything, try what counterpart Bosnjakovic suggested, declare the futility of these contracts. Let's declare nothing. Let's subtract property that is illegal or incorrect due to irregularities acquired. That's what we need to do. Let's find the best possible instrument to do that. Let's find the best possible instrument, but let's not trip our legs. You had a chance to reach your conclusions on May 29th and made a commitment to your government. Either the government didn't want to listen to you or you didn't want to, it's something. You didn't mean to. You just didn't want to implement your decisions. So you had a chance, everything was clear and told by that act itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43832	I thank the honourable representative. Replica, the esteemed representative Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43833	Here's an obvious example of how we want to work in politics. All of us politicians are dirty, all of you who were in the executive power of bandits and thieves and, of course, that's what's basic. With such a thesis, the culprits flee, with such a tendency to try to alleviate, I would say the negative consequences for those to be sanctioned. It's your policy. I don't mind, hold it. We want the other way around, not the punishments. Yeah, why not, let's punish. For the Rijeka Bank of Dealers, for the Rijeka Bank of the President of the Administration who didn't well organize the bank. By the way, he's always taken pictures with the late President Tudjman. At each of his political gatherings in Rijeka, not work, he stood by him. What comes from the river, so you're trying to... SDP and Rijeka are the same terms. Yeah, we're proud of what we did at the River Bank, she's not the Dubrovnik Bank. Stealing drug dealers, a bad administration that didn't stop the dealer at a absent moment solved by 21 days and because of the weakness of the owner who got scared, who didn't believe we were going to stop the citizens who went to the bank. He did not believe in the Croatian government, paid 21m euros. Yeah, that's our job. Some of us can do that. And you, you're all dirty. You're all dirty. Just because we're coming from Rijeka, because Rijeka Bank is Rijeka and the president just took a picture with President Tudjman, the deceased. Here's the problem between us and our policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43834	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43835	No, Mr. Linic, you've completely incorrectly claimed that I said everyone was dirty. I've told you exactly who the responsible persons are in certain cases that I consider a robbery. As you and some of your men consider robbing other things, I consider robbing what you did. In particular, on the board of directors you were sitting in the Croatian Privatisation Fund when deciding on the Hotel "Excelsior" you ignored and ignored the opinion of the resolution minister who was not at all at the session, who opposed such a decision. The second thing, of course, is that you are responsible for, among other things, the Rijeka Bank. Of course you're responsible. You were the Deputy Prime Minister, you knew what was going on. What happened after the Rijeka Bank? There's been damage and nothing. It has nothing to do with Rijeka. I'm not with the late President Tudjman the way you've all tried to impute, etc. So you were very responsible, but you weren't acting responsibly. That's what the fact is and what I wanted to point out. As for DABA, I would also ask from this place the state institutions to determine what was going on in the sale of Dubrovnik Bank, which was happening in the sale of DABA portfolios. It's the same thing. It's very important for Dubrovnik. In whose hands came the premises in Dubrovnik shopping centers, in DTS-holding etc. It's very important for Dubrovnik. Who became the owner and in what way? Many members of the party who have come into ownership through various ties will be recognized and it is known in what way. That's exactly what you know, and I'm hoping it will be determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43836	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43837	Thank you very much. Well, you asked your colleague Matosic yourself whether you asked yourself how she acted or didn't act, or how effective or ineffective the former coalition authority was in terms of privatising, revising and privatising everything that was done in the privatisation. I'll go back to the "Sun Hvar" case. Namely, the "Sun Hvar" was sunbathing by many politicians at the time, and then suddenly the sun was gone, and the affair went temporarily into some shadow. However, we must remember all of this, so we will see how effective this coalition government was, what the leaders and coalition authorities said about the case itself, "Sun-Hvar". So the Prime Minister, acting as SDP president, says, quote: "With less mistakes selling "Sun Hvar," everything was fine." finished the quote. The president of the parliament as president of the Croatian Peasant Party says "we do not accept such a game and we will push these things to the end" finished quote. The then president of the Liberal Party says "we didn't drink, so we don't intend to pay for other people's drunkenness" completed a quote. The secretary of defense says he won't sit back and watch Linic drag the mud. Very interesting statements, given that all the above quoted people were in the same coalition government, were partners and should have implemented the same policy. But it is also very interesting that the prime minister argues that mistakes are okay, and it is even more interesting when a man, and that is the vice president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, finds that the profession and professionally conducted competitions have been caught in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43838	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43839	I don't agree with my colleague, and besides what you said about many sunbathing in "Suny Hvar," many of them were sunbathing on the yacht of the Supreme, you know? On the yacht Damir Vrhovnika many were also sunbathing and riding it, and those who were illegally and contrary to the opinion and attitude of the State Review that guarantees can be given to a private company and such guarantees that will later come to the burden of the state as we have seen and as we feel these consequences today. So despite this attitude of the State Audit, which many today are calling for, and their opinion did. It happened that at that time, when the person sought state guarantees and did not return the previous loans, the same person, who was driving that yacht, received a salary of $120,000 per month. And then you need more state guarantees nice, nice then swing on a yacht, that's hot. Sunbathing, 120,000 kunas every month drops and everything's fine. So, that kind of behavior is not that criminal but I don't know, I don't even know how to say the name actually of the government that supports that kind of work. Later, after it came out in public, you asked to cut wages. Then he cut it down to some miserable 13th, 14th thousand kuna, as it was said then. Not to mention, it's specifically the salary of parliamentary deputies. Those miserable ones, as he said then, from 120 to 13, 14 thousand kuna. So here's what really happened in 2000 by the end of 2003. That period is clearly forgotten, erased from memory. All of this takes place both in the privatisation and behaviour of the Government, and in the behaviour of the Croatian Parliament. And once again I point out...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43840	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43841	It wasn't in your best interest to pass a new law because you didn't act...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43842	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43843	...your government did not follow this House's instructions...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43844	I thank you, dear representative Matušić. Time's up. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43845	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in the previous presentation, we heard something very interesting. So, for that privatisation until 2000, which was audited and found in a thousand 550 audited companies, that there was enormous damage, that 400,000 workers were out of work. There was an irregularity about this privatisation. There was an irregularity. For privatisation from 2000 to the end of 2003, which privatised 35 companies. So for those previous 10 years, a total of about 3,000 companies have been privatised, and for these 3 years 35 companies have been privatised and are called robbery. If it's a robbery, I'm in favor of your robbers responding. However, it must be determined. It's not enough for me to say, I think it's a robbery. So the entire Croatian people talked by 2000 about the robbery that took place in privatisation. But we didn't have any results, we didn't have any documents. We pass the Privatisation Review Act, the State Audit Office performs an audit, damage is determined, perpetrators are determined, the way it was done and then it is called irregularities. Therefore, let the Auditor continue his work and whoever robs her be punished. However, it is not the purpose of this debate that we are discussing minor or greater guilt and that we are divulging that guilt in a way that is all our fault. The aim of this debate should be to find ways to correct what happened on the basis of the reports we received. And in last night's debate, I said, we are left with what gives us the opportunity in the opinion of the state's attorney to press charges for the return of illegally acquired assets, to press charges for termination of the contract. That should also be discussed in other ways to resolve what has happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43846	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43847	My colleague Lalic, you haven't quoted me correctly, you can take a transcript of my speech later. I didn't just say there were irregularities, I was just quoting the state's attorney's office. 93% of irregularities and illegalities were much less. I said there was an illegality. They were precisely identified as illegalities, and I said it was an attempt last year to help all of us consensually help the court determine what the concept of social property is and that in such a way that the processes are still being conducted so that those who have illegally and through these irregularities have acquired illegal property. It's quite clear and unequivocal. And that's why I agree with you completely. Let's agree on what instruments are to cancel certain contracts, how we're going to do it, and make that property that's acquired immorally and illegally, incorrectly or however we want it to go back to the state. To come back, to defile the state first. That's one thing. The second thing is not true that it is an attempt to relativise against the number of companies that are privatized. Look at the societies you privatized. You privatized the INA in a way that you actually gave the one who bought 25% of the management rights as if it had 51%. Well, that's a bad move. Look how much INA's worth. See how much annual traffic in INA is, see how much it is a company, how much wealth it is, how much national wealth it is, and you will see and compare it with what is then privatized and how it is privatized, and then you will see what the consequences of your privatisation are. Yours, the privatisations that were conducted while your government was headed by the Croatian State, the Government of the Ivica Racan. This can be very clear and precisely hardened.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43848	And the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43849	Continuing on the replica Mrs Lalic gave to her colleague Matusic, I must say that yesterday we discussed amendments to the Privatisation Act. So we're aware that it's possible that during the government of Ivica Racan there were mistakes as you say, and robberies in that privatisation. Well, that's why we've been trying to make it clear to the law, to give the opportunity for workers in these companies to file a complaint to carry out a review. If you have honorable intentions then you will support what was yesterday in the debate, and not only to give an extension of the deadline, without us clear criteria that every employee, every citizen of Croatia can submit a request to revise it. In that case, I'd like to ask you myself. So that's the possibility that if you already know about those crimes or crimes or the robbery that's been going on, I hope that you will personally file a request for review. After all, you have that information, it would be both your legal and constitutional obligation. Speaking of which, some things at the time of the review were not criminal acts. There were no crimes because at that time the Penal Code was amended, which reduced the sentence for some acts so that it was outdated, some were simply no longer criminal acts, so someone is bearing sin. Just as we bear sin on this side, for some election promises we haven't made. However, I must tell you the same thing you did to this Rijeka Bank, it is not the Government that controls the direct work of banks in Croatia, it is the Croatian National Bank. And the government got involved at the time when the National Bank signaled what was going on there, and dear fellow guarantees will always be given to private companies, because in Croatia all societies are private, the only question is who owns them is the state or someone else. Because I'm asking you which shipyard in Croatia will perform any ship if it doesn't get state guarantee, whether it's state or private. There's no such thing as capital. So, I think we agree on this confiscation-related thing, but I expect that when you and SDP again give the law that was rejected twice in this House when we at least wanted to give a tax on illegal or immorally acquired property, I don't remember being supported by you to pass such a law in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43850	Thank you. Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43851	My colleague, Korenik, you have indeed had the opportunity to make all these laws that you are talking about and to review the conversion you have had the opportunity and not only the opportunity but also the obligation to bring them in when this House decided that you should bring them. You didn't do it for your reasons. You didn't want to do it, tell the Croatian public loud and clear that you didn't want to do it for these or those reasons, but don't convince us now that we need to do something that you didn't do. We have precisely determined that the extension of this deadline is quite enough that there are state instruments, that there are instruments that can be ensured that everyone states, that all conversions and privatisations are being examined by all processes to determine irregularities however we want and that it is being processed and that it is being depriving the state to find a way through the attorney's office to declare the contracts void and to return the property to the state that is quite clear our position, we are absolutely on it. And don't impute anything else from that. So, all you're saying right now is that we should have accepted your conclusion this or that so you could have done it all but you didn't want to, so tell the Croatian public why you didn't want the government of Ivica Racan to disobey, didn't implement the Assembly's conclusion on which she was obliged, did not implement the Assembly's conclusion since May 2002 to pass a new law, to bring amendments to that law, why she didn't do it, today nobody's talking about it. So why don't you look back on that and your sin, if we can call it sin, it's ineffective action, it's an attempt to put some things under the carpet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43852	Dear Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43853	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Surely after this two-day debate, I will not say anything that has not already been said, especially nothing very clever, that has not already been said in this Assembly. I personally was in favour of putting it as the conclusions of this Croatian Parliament because I was aware that this could not go away. So many times today were heard by the Croatian Democratic Community and yesterday guilty of 400 thousand jobs, for 800 thousand jobs, for criminal organisation, for the fault of failing businesses, for failing the economy, for creating Croatia's state. Here is as well as the representative of the Croatian Democratic Community and the HDZ official, we are not running away from those who were members of the Croatian Democratic Community who did not bite into these deep waters of crime, even in privatisation, we do not run away from it, we tell the Croatian public and openly seek the strictest sanctions for them, but thank God they are no longer among us. In 2000, when the coalition government won the elections, I will honestly say sad but deep down, I was somewhat and cynically happy, so maybe that coalition government will do what it said in its pre-election assemblies, close those thieves as they called them, those criminals, so here it will clean up a Croatian democratic community that is not immune and admits it unlike you and those. Especially the biggest party in Croatia. We're guilty of 800,000 jobs. We're forgetting what dr. Hebrang in what conditions we inherited the economy, in what conditions we worked on the economy, in the war environment. The economy we are talking about, in a town in the county where 85% of people are mobilized to Croatian military troops, which is an economy, which is jobs, whose mobile and largely immovable property is mobilized to the Croatian Army, where the economy is. Whose market-produced production was based on the premises of the former Yugoslavia. At 90%, 10% west, we couldn't carry out our duties in the west, which is why gentlemen. Which, with which people, I tell you in my county unfortunately women worked on men's jobs to try to maintain any production, but it didn't work out in such conditions. We took care of up to 100,000 exiles in the county of Karlovac, who under such conditions could work and preserve jobs and be competitive on the market that went forward. Certainly, the Government said what Professor Hebrang said during the past period in the basements and I don't know where everything in abnormal conditions was not only concerned about privatisation and that it would certainly be the happiest that it didn't even go into the privatisation process, but it was also the World Bank and Europe that pressured the market. She tried the government, tried the same as Racan's government tried to resuscitate some companies, tried to go into programmed bankruptcy, some called them bankruptcy with reshuffles, some failed somewhere. But certainly there were attempts to preserve jobs. In my opinion, too, it is not so much wrong and crime and crime that has been done as the finding of state audits and attorneys in the process of conversion and privatisation has already been done much more after, by selling companies, by selling companies' assets, by opening up companies' daughters, by transferring money, and also by money from companies that were rehabilitated to daughters of companies to do so, I guess it was a wish but in that desire there were certainly those who were hunting in the dim. Our conclusions in the Assembly often led by the narrow political interests of the Croatian public but also by the world community, we must personally be a little more careful. So we're in charge of the State's Attorney's Office, the State's audit with one of our conclusions that they've been working for ten years. Those ten years to work can't do what we do and at the same time we're against a state apparatus, bureaucracy, a bunch of state appliances. So with which these people will make the conversion and privatisation, the revision of the conversion and privatisation of all businesses in Croatia that have been converted and privatised, which, with which people without hiring new ones. And we won't let them. When the budget comes up, we won't increase their work and better work here and their report says we're asking them for a report. When the report comes in, we're not satisfied, we expected the State Audit to say that 90% of the crime is in conversion and privatisation that everything needs to be closed. Believe it honestly and humanly, I don't want to defend anyone, we can't generalize neither conversion nor privatisation. We need to remember those who privatized companies with 20 wartime workers who came to 500 today and also give them a certain confession. By 2000, only 6% of the state capital of companies were privatized as they were in the war. They've all privatized them. Personally, I want a list of these people by the parties who privatized them. According to my knowledge, about 10% of the HDZ's. But please, let's check it out, let's give it to the public. The picture in public we create must be the one. What further did Racan's Government do in 2000 when it came to power? I expected what I said in the depths of my soul to try to solve and publish the list of 200 families, to publish a list of those people and by the parties that they privatized and were "in thieving." Nothing's happened. It's moving on. It keeps eating what's most valuable. Most valuable Croatian, it is INA, HT, hotels etc. There is a perception in the public and even in the international public, and then we need not be surprised that some of the world's institutions are putting us in a low place to rule over lawlessness, so that we can undo everything. So I wonder what kind of economics from our environment closer or further, who will come to us after such discussions in the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen, we have a great responsibility. What's next? One of the MPs said that, and I certainly support it. Followed by further privatisation we wanted it or not what remains most valuable, and parts of the INA, and Croatian Railways, and Croatian Forests, and Croatian Shipbuilding. I think there are some things we need to reach a political consensus and I think this is a national issue, that we must not introduce narrow party interests here that we must all take care together about the future of generations that come behind us. And it's a big responsibility on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43854	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43855	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In some parts, a fellow representative spoke as a completely uninformed person. For example, we've been working on the audit for ten years. Or who's going to do a review without new people. Well, the Revision Act was passed in 2001. The State Audit Office has reported this Parliament seven times, given a final report, and there's no need to talk about some ten years, no need to talk about some new people. The job's over. Now, the question for us is how are we going to use this job of the State Audit Office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43856	Thank you. Replicated representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43857	Thank you very much. With some claims from the predecessors, I might even agree. But what doesn't suit me in this intonation of him, and even most HDZ MPs is spraying ashes like those who did it no longer exist between us, that's one thesis. And the second thesis is political guilt is on the former government. It is certain that the former government inherited the situation in 2000 that it could not have changed too much, certainly passed the Law on the Review of Conversion, but here we now have this material ahead of us and I suggest that we now talk a little less about the guilty and talk a little bit more about the innocent. For me, it's just those little privatization participants, the little stockholders who've been paying for a few years of stock that's left without them. For me, it's the participants of the coupon privatisation, and for me, it's the pensioners because we filled in our time with those shares and the pension fund, so he was emptied and that money was gone. If we concentrate more on the innocent and forget these "guilty" then we could also form a fund from which we would just deprive the participants of a privatisation called the small shareholders, who are called the victims of the Homeland War and who are called the pensioners. If we have political will, then we might as well fill that fund because 95% of privatisation was obviously done illegally or incorrectly, and we can charge that fund if we sanction those who hid the property, didn't include it in the conversion, so we can sell it through the tax on those who acquired the property there in a slightly weird way and never paid this state tax. My proposal is to talk more about the innocent and concentrate finally on this on the Fund for the Compensation of Innocents in Croatia. It's about time we had the right conversation on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43858	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43859	In my speech, I did not run away from the political responsibility of the Croatian Democratic Union either. My first word was, I said that as an official and representative of the Croatian Democratic Community, I am not running away from the responsibility of some of our members. And also, you should do that as part of the coalition government and I will read only one of your conclusions so many times here, and I quote which obviously bothers you but the Croatian public and because of the fact that it bothers you even more, that is why I will read it if time lets me, which you did not execute. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to propose, within 60 days in the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of amendments, additions or new laws necessary to sanction crime committed in conversion and privatisation. They relate to the protection of the economic and other interests of the Republic of Croatia in relation to conversion and privatisation, which will enable the perpetrator of illegal actions during the privatisation process to be fair and lawfully processed and sanctioned, in order to determine the origin of the money that the privatisation was made and sanctioned by illegal acquisitions. Gentlemen, here in this House sits six to seven members of the former government. Why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43860	Second replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43861	Mr. President, the esteemed representative, Vukic, rightly and well said that they worked for war and women in Karlovac County. And that 85% of the population was mobilized into war. And now imagine the privatisation that was played in that county while that 85 was in the trenches and the women were working. Who did this privatisation? You now have a situation in Karlovac and the carlovakia county as well as defence of such privatisation and such proceedings can no one move. Secondly, here is Mr. Vukic, and especially Mr. Matosic raised the INA issue. The government went with 25% of the INA privatisation at a good time and with an assessment that has been confirmed at all levels that INA in this region in the long term cannot be a major factor alone. But it could be, it could be a factor and a partner with a strong role both INA and partners and Croatia's state in the oil industry. But what the HDZ government is doing right now is a mistake. .../The speaker has been turned off./...the further privatisation of INA at the worst possible moment. At this point, no one is going to privatise their oil companies. Did you hear what the last three days in Johannesburg said about the oil economy? At this point, no one can determine the value of the INA. At this point, until now, INA is not modernized, nor in any way can it enter into an equal relationship with anyone. What are you doing privatizing INA right now? Please have a pre-strategic study on why you're doing it? Let us know. I warn until we discuss this obviously some other privatisations are going, but I think neither INA nor Croatia insurance is being heard about it nor the Croatian bank is going well and that all these are already making further mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43862	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43863	Well, the esteemed representative of the Church said well that the government made a decision to sell INA 25% to Hungary's Mol, but did not say that Hungarians have the right to decide as if they had 100%. Same thing, 50+1. I also agree with him that there was no time for privatisation at the time in Karlovac County. But a decision was made on privatisation, and it went into it given the environment. Mr. Churchvenac I agree if it is not the decision of this Croatian Parliament that you and I sit down and make people who have been privatized for the Carlovak County according to the political definition. You'll be disappointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43864	A fellow Churchman has no reply to the replica. _Other Organiser Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. [[I agree to sit down, we have something to say to ourselves.]] Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43865	Thank you very much. It seems to me that before me he was a colleague of the Lonchars, but thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43866	It seems so.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43867	Mr. Vukic, I agree with you that you have openly told the criticism of the then government that in the middle of the war when a large number of people were on the battlefields then there was privatisation. It seems quite incorrect to me to all these people. It wasn't just in your county. It was in several counties. But let me start from the beginning. I certainly don't think HDZ is to blame for the formation of the Croatian state. Anyway, I'm giving you credit because you were in the government at the time. You had the top of the state. So that's a good thing. But it should be admitted when something is done wrong. Going to privatisation in the middle of the war is certainly not a good move, and it certainly wasn't made by the World Bank or any other institution. You said certain institutions have no conditions to review privatisation and everything that goes later. We have, we'll be discussing the State budget soon. I hope that this government will now propose to this High House that for the Ministry of Justice for the Croatian judiciary, the State's Attorney's office separates significant amounts of money to continue reform on the one hand, and on the other, that they can carry out their part of the privatisation work. There's something else very important. I was called by an angry citizen of Varazdin who watched this transfer of ours and said: "Instead of having such misdeeds, make a preferable proposal so let the citizens of this country judge very quickly and easily what we do not have the strength and we are unable to do in the Croatian Parliament."
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43868	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43869	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! We've been talking here for two days now about Croatia being robbed. I agree. Croatia was robbed, but I haven't heard yet when Croatia began to rob. So if there's a piece of this mosaic I'll say as much as I know, I've learned from history. I've been experiencing something like that. It seems to me that the first robbery was made in 1945 when the Party returned from the woods and we established a dictatorship of proletariats. The second time the robbery begins when the proletariat dictatorship is also appointed as its prime minister by the party member Antu Markovic. And then he starts with conversion and privatisation. All members, all directors were party members because we know that no one could have been the director of a company that wasn't a party member. And that's when the real robbery starts. Then we're in 1993, 1994. There's another robbery going on. Who's robbing? The party members again. Because they were former directors. They learned how to do it there, and now I don't understand there's a party here, too, and that party is attacking its former members. It's really so contradictory to me that I just can't figure it out. Here's my colleague Letica said, I couldn't make it right that there was a colleague of ours, a former minister, a pretender at the post of Prime Minister who was supposed to be in custody a long time ago. I believe there are a lot of people in this House who should have been in prison a long time ago. And one more thing. There was talk when it was robbed, so just remember, during the government of the party-run coalition, what kind of robbery was it? For example, I'm close to agriculture, so let's just take the agricultural combinations. What was the party-run coalition doing there, as well as how she robbed. Here's what I think this is supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43870	We've been in prison for many of us who've only been here for other reasons. And I guess some of them will catch up with her. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43871	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. After such an inspired and intellectual exposure a little bit, I'm a little dubious, hefty how to perform? I wanted to say in particular in the context of the Liburnia affair a few details about the chronology of the proceedings in coupon privatisation. In the second half, just to remind myself in the second half of 1997, Croatia launched a free allocation of state shares to defenders, victims of the Homeland War, political prisoners and the unemployed in war-related areas. Shares were divided according to some data 471 enterprises but 2/3 of these companies did not meet the basic terms of profitability and insolvency. And certain political circles of the then government have successfully excluded certain businesses from privatisation. And instead of replacing worthless shares with new higher quality shares, the Croatian Privatisation Fund entered into negotiations with individual PIFs behind which, these privileged PIFs stood unknown capital. The companies that managed the PIFs were given an inexplicably high fee for fund management. In this way, these companies came to capital for the purchase of shares from the PIF portfolio. Unfortunately, most of the victims and defenders sold their shares to those who bought them at a very low price. It was all the basis for creating privatization affairs as well as an affair with Liburnia. The Liburni affair came to light on 4 August 2005, when the government made a decision to beat the debt to SN and DOM holding the rate of 256 000 shares in Liberia. All the consequences of the coupon privatisation on the Liburnia case have surfaced, which is that instead of public investment funds we have received private investment firms. Next, instead of a large number of small shareholders, we got a few tycoons. Instead of strategically dispersed ownership, we got a concentrated investment and instead of a transparent and regulated capital market, we got secret contracts and judicial coercions. The Croatian government has decided to settle its debt to the SN and DOM holding company by handing over 256 000 shares of the abbey tourist company Liburnia. In this way, two holding companies received 256 thousand shares for 520 million kuna. The decision of the Croatian Privatisation Fund was made on the last working day ahead of the holiday and long collective vacation of the government. Why didn't the government sell the shares through the tender? The Croatian Privatisation Fund claims it could not go on sale through the tender, as PIFs have 33% of the shares in Lebanon according to court decisions. The answer and explanation of such a decision by the Government is that the owner of one of the funds or companies associated with its fund has funded the pre-election HDZ campaign, and that this job is in fact the repayment of the debt from the pre-election campaign. Sam Ostora admitted to being funded by HDZ. This speaks of how the Croatian government refers to the resources of the Croatian state, i.e. in what way to target groups and individuals who have greatly assisted the pre-election campaign of the HDZ, gives huge value to the entire company. For them, hotel companies and other values are only hunts that need to be cleaned up in this way. Some hotel companies, such as the Rab Empire, have for a long time made their own privatisation models involving workers and local self-government units. Today it is clear why this model did not see the light of day in the fund. I don't want to mention some rough qualifications in the end, but I'm not sure that the complete script of Liberia is not cut from the beginning to the end with the ultimate goal of blacking out a billion and two hundred million kunas under quotes from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43872	Thank you. Replica. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43873	Here I am pleased that the principles and this topic, but I would like to say this, that various administrations of Lebanon, and we know who put them on one side and the other, have sold as much as 44 buildings for 41.4 million euros, which has clearly not stabilised business, but most of these administrations today weigh several million euros. I mean, it was before the beginning there in '92. The conversion and privatisation of 102 objects, that remains today means somewhere around 50. After the citizens of Opatija, Lovran stopped a major conversion from saying not to attempt a major robbery in action is a small conversion of the Hotel "Danica", "the Adriatic", and "Villa Elsa". I was talking about 12 more. 8. Indeed, this practice raises the question of what will ultimately remain of Lebanon, although I agree that these objects are a Louvre mockery. I'm afraid there's a policy going on right now. Government pressure on Lovran where HDZ is not in power. So, by logic, if you can sell, we can sell. However, the transaction of Liburnia, which we had in 4.8, was carried out non-transparently, unlawfully, unfairly, at the expense of the state. Everything was backed up by an amoral settlement of 570 million kuna with two funds and it's a good thing it's stopped. However, I'm glad to hear yesterday that the government will probably get those shares back, but I'm not glad this quiet little privatisation is happening at this point. This should also be openly said to stop and to clear local self-government of Opatija, Moscenica Draga and Lovran, perhaps the Matulji belong to those 25% plus one shares. Why is Liburnia important? To avoid jeopardising the full privatisation in the Republic of Croatia, because in a country where such privatisations are trying to do the relevant capital cannot come and therefore you need to see what to do with this small privatisation which part of it, at least I claim in the same way as the case was with the big one. Otherwise, I have here a list of all these objects that have been privatized since 2000, as I said yesterday that a camp of 2500 square meters has been sold by gentlemen for 12523 thousand euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43874	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43875	Thank you very much. In fact, there is a sign of the most intriguing following which is the nominal debt of 520 million kuna owed by the state to SN and DOM holding company. These holding companies have gained value, an estimated value of billions and 200 million kuna, although the State's Attorney's Office has opposed that. And that's what it's all about. So this all gives rise to the suspicion that the whole scenario is pre-arranged with the ultimate goal of repeating under quotes the blackout of a billion and 200 million kunas from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43876	Thank you. Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43877	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, gentlemen representatives of Croatian state institutions. After this discussion, which is being held here for two days, which I sincerely hope will end with certain concrete conclusions. I would like to say that the conversion and privatisation in the Republic of Croatia, that after the sacrifices our citizens gave to the Homeland War and that the victims with nothing comparable left the most difficult traces on the fabric of Croatian society. The process that was carried out in Croatia under the law passed by the first HDZ government has caused enormous damage to our citizens, our economy, all segments of Croatian society. Let me remind you that the main number of conversions and privatisations took place at an inappropriate time, during the time of the Homeland War, when one of Croatia was defended and the others were pillaged in Croatia and, unfortunately, it was often taken by law. The law, which was an expression of the political will of the HDZ then, and is beautiful today in this assembly when the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Milinovic, tells Dr. Andrija Hebrang that today's HDZ admits the mistakes of the old HDZ and rhetorically asks the SDP's relationship against the mistakes of the former party. Mr. Milinovic is not here in the assembly right now, but I'd like to remind him or maybe meet him, because maybe he doesn't even know that SDP is at his first convention in '90. In the year, he brought four declarations, including a historic declaration in which he clearly, as a legal follower of the former party, told all Croatian citizens who in any way suffered from, as victims of the former communist regime. It was done by the SDP back in the '90s and on behalf of 352 thousand members of the former Communist Union who were in those years in '89. and '90. Everyone put on HDZ's uniform and some of which are still sitting in this assembly today. Dr Herbang also said that this conversion and privatisation took place in a period of 7 years, 7 war years, at a time when productivity in Croatia fell to 50%, which is the fact, which is true, when the Croatian state allocated about 405 of its weapons budget to defend itself against aggression, which is also true. But I'm asking you gentlemen why we went to privatisation in those times and times like that? In the '90s. By 2000, there were also requirements for revision of conversion and privatisation, but the HDZ government was against the revision, an effort was made to cement the existing situation. In 2001, the coalition government passed the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. And what the revision of the conversion and privatisation carried out by the State Audit Office established. The defeating fact has been established that in the process of conversion and privatisation in Croatian-based societies, the first reduced value of former social capital was 12.99%, secondly, that around 386 thousand workers were jobless, thirdly that around 30% of the companies were opened bankruptcy proceedings and fourthly, that in around 505 companies no development programme was achieved. Now, these are the results of our conversion and privatisation that the national treasures took away from those who created them and assigned them to have new tycoons. And that's what I'm trying to say, and I don't look at tycoons and I don't share them by which foreigners they belong, which is what they belong to, but they look at them as the ones who illegally came into wealth. In doing so, I am aware of the fact that in our ranks there was also a hoax, but this leprosy gave them the law that the first HDZ government had just passed. So that's the expression of the political will that these bastards, as I called them, used. Sometimes even a few heated debates in this House, including some inappropriate statements behind which I cannot stand convinced the root wolf precisely in the fact of dissatisfaction and indignation of the general public by the robbery that was made in the conversion and privatisation. And today in this assembly, when we consider, among other things, the State's Attorney's report that comes out? It turns out that everything was actually over according to the law, it was true, some excesses, but please, how do we make our citizens feel that because of irregularities in the process of conversion and privatisation, according to the finding of the State Audition, 93% of the audited entities have been identified irregularity, only 18 applications have been filed, and 4 convictions of which are two conditional and two fines. If we add nine more convictions to that by reporting other bodies, the police primarily, that's all that's sanctioned. How do you explain that to our citizens? They can't make up with that. As for the Croatian government, if there were no pressure from some opposition clubs, including the SDP club, this story would have been completed in February of this year when the Croatian Government report from the State Audit Office, imagine, took note. She took notice of no one. There's no receiving it. No point can be placed on this process. It must not be outdated, the coalition government has passed amendments to the Penal Code that tighten sanctions and extend the limitation deadlines. But what happened? The HDZ has challenged the law. And in the end or the end, what about coupon privatisation? Privatisation which has been double broken on the back of the poorest, on the back of the most endangered returnees, exiles, defenders and wartime military disableds. They were first assigned shares to be targeted by various bags that had created their own personal empires on their backs. All the absurdity of the coupon privatisation, which is, by the way, according to the state's attorney today, if you believe the media who passed it on, was also against the law. It was best shown on the Liburni Riviera of the Hotel, as administratively on this case has proven that all strategic goals of coupon privatisation have turned to their opposite. Instead of public investment funds, we got private investment firms. Individuals have again moaned, wanted, and perhaps they are the yagmillas that represent the most significant policy-making platform of five star hotels in Opatija, the most tourist town with five stars. The public and local and regional self-government may still have prevented this transaction. In yesterday's debate, the vice-president of the Croatian government, Mr Polancec, said almost sleazy that the agreement for Liburnia had been put out of force and that the government would become the owner of the Liburia shares. I look forward to finding out, but I wonder what the price is, because as my colleague Slavko Linic says, the contracts are signed and consumed, and the cost of fund compensation due to harmful contracts will normally be borne by taxpayers, I am convinced. Yes, I would add that Mr. Ostoj and Els will certainly not suffer the consequences, they do not believe in patriotism, but believe in interests. And you see, today's debate and yesterday's debate must not be completed with an understanding. Final conclusions and conclusions must be made that will not shine new illusions to the citizens of Croatia, but conclusions that are feasible and, to that end, the SDP club has also referred to the procedure of the draft conclusions. I believe that, in accordance with the debate that we've all had, we'll all have these conclusions and we'll accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43878	Thank you. Four corrections to an incorrect quote, one replica. The first replica, the esteemed representative Ivo Lonchar. ... Correction of an incorrect allegation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43879	Mr. President, here, I'm really stoned. A colleague of Peru today in this High Croatian House says the SDP has apologized for the party's mistakes. I think it might be a lapse. But a colleague of Peru, if it is a mistake Blyburg, cross road, Goli Otok, Grgur concentration island, Gradiška in '71, whether the UDBA murder error around the world and in Croatia, whether it was a mistake to emigrate more than a million Croats and the most productive ability since the Party began to manage Croatia since '45. '90s.? And one more thing, you must finally understand that today's Party which you, the last Party that today's Party are criticizing is that you are their followers by name, property, personnel and God in many ways and ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43880	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43881	Thank you very much. I also want to correct Mr. Peru's claim that they apologized. As you said, you apologized to those who suffered, but you did not apologize to those whom you shortened their suffering.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43882	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Plesa, third Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43883	He's a completely incorrect colleague of Peru, you said the coalition government has passed amendments to the penal law that HDZ has slowed down. The HDZ didn't slow down. HDZ was only one of those with the Helsinki Committee that initiated the Constitutional Court proceedings, the Constitutional Court disputed. But if it were true and the HDZ challenged it, it's a much smaller mistake than the one your government made that didn't listen to what this Parliament did.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43884	Fourth Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43885	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed colleague of Peru is absolutely incorrect your thesis, your claim that through the privatisation process a defensive population has been robbed. That's not true. HDZ has always shown... to the defense associations, and I must remind you, and we will see that in the next report, the next point that will be behind this, that just during your power, it means 2000-2003, that then the government and the ministry are in charge that they were in constant terms, I would say conflict with the defence population. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43886	Thank you. And a replica, the esteemed representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43887	I can't be as optimistic as my colleague, Peru, that the government will succeed in revoking the fund contract. I'm really not optimistic and I think that believing these statements is very difficult and the good part of us is skeptical. But there are solutions. There is. The state's attorney's office must indeed determine that the people who run the funds-inherited institutions have been favoured with 650 million kuna. Done! Because these are amounts you shouldn't have admitted, you shouldn't have paid. These are amounts that are not owed by the Privatisation Fund and at least by the Liburnia shares. These are the amounts of claims for damages and coupon privatisations which are impossible to prove, in particular, that two exchanges of shares have been carried out. Two replacements. Where over 700 million marks of that time, 700 million in replacements were realised. Therefore, one who gives to someone without a court solution, without any means I would say that such a dispute can be lost by the Republic, it is a bargain, and if it is determined by the State's Attorney's Office, then it is a zero contract and then the contract with "Liburnia" will be terminated and that is the only way, the legal way we must fight that the funds, or the holding companies that inherited the funds, do not take another fortune from the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43888	Thank you. Replication response, Anton Perushko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43889	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Slavko Linić, of course I share your concerns because I know what Liburnia and Riviera Hotel mean for the local community and also for the Republic of Croatia. However, my optimism in the debate expressed in terms of resolving this issue was based solely on yesterday's statement by Vice President Polancec, which I literally quoted as being said, it can also be seen in the phonogram. I've only expressed concern that I don't know what price will have to be paid because I don't believe that from the contracts that have been concluded, the other side, and these funds are going to step down without being chargeable, of course on the burden of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43890	Thank you. Omaško was not named the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic, who reported for correcting the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43891	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to correct the truly incorrect allegations of a respected colleague of Peru who is here, it is repeatedly said that the Croatian Democratic Union as a political party has disputed or abolished the proposed Penal Code that was in the parliamentary procedure. No, I'm saying that again, no, because of the public. This was done by the Constitutional Court in a decision that abolished the law, not the Croatian Democratic Community. And that's what I'm saying for that, and regardless of the suspension under the Constitutional Court of that law. In 2000, there was an absolutely complex legal framework in a criminal and legal sense that they were being prosecuted and sanctioned, indeed, by all perpetrators of criminal offences, and even this in a four-year period can be absolutely no excuse that in 4 years you have absolutely done nothing, and you are also processing and sanctioning and alleged perpetrators of the crimes you are constantly calling for.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43892	Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43893	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. On several occasions, you said some numbers that really don't stand, and I need to explain them a little bit. So let me go back to unfinished stock compensation contracts in 2000. Once again, I remind you that there was a commitment to those contracts at the height of 280 marks. 280 million marks. I claim, and this is from all reports and documents, that that debt could then be settled with a far smaller amount that there was pragmaticism, desire and will to sit at the negotiating table. In the meantime, since we haven't carried out those contracts, we've decided to sue and sue. Interests are part of the cost. The second part of the cost is what I quoted and what is mentioned in the report of the president of the Privatisation Fund College, Mr Linic as the chairman of the Management Board of the Fund, which warns him that it is possible that the PIF will join and press charges for damages. Only the damage compensation suit at the municipal court in Zagreb, with interest it weighs a billion and 230 million kuna at the moment. I'm not saying that we're going to win that lawsuit, that's what we're going to get. I'm not saying we're not going to lose that dispute, and I'm not going to judge it. I am the one who is obliged to inform myself of this and, based on the information he receives, to make a business decision and an assessment, and information from the 4th month of the State's Attorney's Office says "the judge of the municipal court has requested an art of damage", let the lawyers interpret what it means. And interest on arbitration, that is, under those unfinished contracts that were to be executed on the basis of the acquis, is another part of the story, and we are talking today about the need to settle or settle, settle any settlement obligations of whatever, about 280 million marks, we are talking about a total commitment and the risk of 2.5 billion kuna because we were not prepared to accept suggestions and resolve these disputes. Now you're saying we gave it 520 million kuna to Liburni. Allow me, every settlement is primarily a settlement and allow me only some figures to present before this distinguished House. So the commitment to Dom Holding was 229 million kuna, which with interest towards SN Holding increased to 250 million kuna. The obligation to "Dom Holding" was to transfer shares worth 85 million marks, slightly higher. With interest, that's 580 million kuna. In that lawsuit I'm referring to for damages, or damages, the damage claim "Dom Holding" and "SN Holding" is 657 million marks. So, according to the law, there is a commitment of 580 million kuna and there is a risk that in the event of the loss of the lawsuit we will have to pay these same funds another 657 million. We paid it with 84% of Lebanon, which by nomination is 806 million kuna and 67 million kuna in money. According to the nomination, but I remind you, gentlemen, in the history of trade in this stock, the highest price has been reached by 2 thousand 400 kuna per share. If at the highest price I am counting, then we have paid 670 million, and I also remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the average price of Lebanon in the last 12 months on the stock market has reached 780 kuna. If we take that price into calculation then we've paid 520 million kuna for a 580 commitment and a risk of 657. But that's not all, gentlemen. I also remind you that Liburnia is in charge of disputes, property disputes with units of local self-government with legal followers of the city of Opatija and that more than 20% of the shares in the Fund are reserved for this purpose. That somewhere the value of these disputes is about 370 million kuna, out of 960 million kunas of core capital. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the risk of losing these disputes by this settlement has been passed on to the new owners. Transferred to new owners. In the event of a loss of disputes, the 20% of 960 will be paid to the local self-government units if the disputes are lost. Now, why have the disputes been living so long? In 96, at the Municipal Court in Opatija, Liburni received a dispute and was to register as the owner of these properties. In 58 days from the judgment of the Municipal Court in Opatija to the judgment of the County Court which annulled the decision of the County Court in Rijeka, 58 days. And after that, in 98, the Supreme Court transferred jurisdiction for the whole case to the Municipal Court in Pula, and to this day we have not solved any of the 60 disputes that stand. Yes, I said yesterday and I'm optimistic, gentlemen. We will return the shares of Liburnia and do so. We will also, ladies and gentlemen, solve not only this problem that arose in 97, 98, 99. Which multiplied, now you've heard the numbers as many. During your government which greatly increased during your government. We will solve this problem, gentlemen, as well as all the problems that we have inherited from you because we are here to solve problems, not to multiply them. We, gentlemen, and do not need the Special Conclusions of the Parliament, in addition, to amend the Privatisation Act and to install in this Privatisation Act the models of privatisation that you are not and which you are talking very contradictoryly about today. It will be in the new Bill of Laws, Amendments and Supplements to the ECOP Model Privatisation Act. There will be a model "mengement buy out", there will be a model "menagement and hireee buy out", but there will also be a new Law on Public-private Partnership which we also lack. I'm looking at Mr. Tomcic now and I'm looking at Mr. Linic. Now we're talking about ESOP. I have a story to tell you, and I am grateful to Mr. Tomcic for receiving me and the then mayor of the Koprivnica-Kristevci when I asked him to listen to me about how he wanted to privatise "Podravka". He had hearing and he listened. The Association of Small Shareholders "Podravka" tried to talk to the Deputy Prime Minister about it the same day. They weren't lucky. But let's let it go. We will solve the problems we inherited. We'll bring in a new Privatisation Act, install into it new models that you haven't installed. We'll restructure the Privatisation Fund. We will connect it with the Central State Office for State Property Management and improve and make it more efficient to manage state property because it is our primary task. We will also reform the judiciary, not open the elevators and create conditions for the state's attorney's office to do its job. And I'm happy to say here from this pay phone, I'm calling the state's attorney's office, I'm calling the police, let them investigate the process of making a settlement between these two holding companies and let them investigate my role in this. And let the state's attorney's office and the judiciary and the police, the judiciary, the state's attorney's office and the police do their job, but let the court judge. And this government, the executive government must respect the court's and must respect the decisions of the Republic of Croatia's courts. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43894	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43895	Yes, Mr. Vice President, very clearly. We are going to insist as parliamentary representatives, the SDP Club insists on investigating two people's bids for 656 million. It's, no, it's not a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43896	Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43897	No, it's not a replica. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43898	Correction, yes. Correction of an incorrect quote, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43899	Well, it's not a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43900	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43901	We'll insist on that because, Mr. Polancec, it's not true that you had the consent of the state's attorney's office for that transaction. That's not true. The State Attorney's Office makes it clear that it is not the debt of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the State's Attorney General has made it clear that it is a claim that will not be so easy to achieve and that it is the Croatian state that will be able to defend itself against these claims. And it's called guessing. ... /The speaker turned off, then turned back on./ 656 million. Such jobs... /The speaker is off, so I'm back on./ I can't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43902	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43903	I was a little freaked out by this vice president's plural. So, the vice president claims, we'll return the shares, we'll change the laws in that. First of all, I wish it were true even though you don't have the authority to do it, we'll do it eventually, that victory in court, the state's attorney. It needs to be trusted, and unfortunately for your judgments, I must seriously doubt you. We haven't even checked the market value you're speculating here based on the retrograde analysis of the value of the Liburia shares, and we've practically never gotten the actual market value of 250 thousand shares there. It is a basic factor from the point of view of normal market thinking in a normal market economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43904	Thank you for the third correction, honourable representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43905	I could almost completely repeat what the Honorable representative of Letica said, only to correct then a yet incorrect quote from Mr. Vice President Polancec. In fact, it manipulates the value of Liburnia, Opatija, as well as the superficial knowledge of the value of the hotel company Liburnia knows that the company is far greater than the said 470 million kuna. So, by saying that the state did a good job, that for a 520 debt, I think it's completely pointless and incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43906	Thank you. Now we've said that we'll vote at 14 o'clock, we've got another 10 MPs on this subject, it's probably going to be a little less so break by 16 o'clock, so it's 7 minutes to gather and prepare to vote on those three laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43907	We're going to continue the debate on the subject. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43908	Mr. President, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues! I gave up my debate yesterday regarding the 3rd agenda, and today I was also thinking whether to give up or not, as much as it makes sense to participate in this debate at all, and I can tell you that as a representative I could also give up. But not as a doctor. That's what Hippocrates obliges me to do. I will tell you, colleagues and colleagues, that individual amnesia is a very serious condition. I'll wait a little while for the colleagues who've done their way out of the hall so we don't get in the way of the others. So I'll do it again. The individual's amnesia, colleagues and colleagues, is a very serious condition. Collective amnesia is a dangerous situation and we've witnessed these two days just collective and collective amnesia is, again, a frightening danger condition. We tried these two days to figure out what happened in Croatia during the 1990s. We had a black and white technique on the left and right of this assembly. Then we tried to figure out what was going on at the beginning of this decade, so we had the black-and-white technique again on the one side of this assembly. So what is particularly interesting, no one remembered April 14th this year when we reached 8 conclusions in the Croatian Parliament. That conclusion was agreed between the two main HDZ and SDP parties and signed by Mr Racan and Mr Vladimir Seks. Interestingly, we led the debate and the course of the session in a way that was just the opposite of what we were supposed to do essentially based on that conclusion from 5 months ago that we all forgot about. My colleagues and colleagues, if we are so forgetful then it is my suggestion to go to the market in the future, ask three, four citizens, 50s or 60s who have been through these 20 years to tell us what actually happened. Not only are these people, a large number of these people because of the privatisation that was the way they were, I'm not going to repeat what you said, it's not only that a huge number of people are out of work, these people are out of dignity, these people are left without the ability to educate their children in the way they wanted to, buy textbooks, pay for buses. Many of these young people have gone into the world, moved away, and that is also part of the problem that we have today with our demographic picture. Yesterday, it seems to me that it was a colleague, Leko, who set a sweat to see if the privatisation goals were achieved. His answer was no, he clearly considered how Croatian citizens think, indeed their goals, their wishes were not achieved. However, I ask you whether these were the objectives of those who did this privatisation, I believe that their goals have indeed been achieved. It was a few days ago for me at... in Rijeka came an older man and told me Mr. Doric I worked 45 years, I've been retired today, I'm not hungry because I can afford bread but I'm eager for everything else, it's a result of privatisation, and those who have ruined the factory where he worked, their children, their children are driven in the most expensive cars, produced in Germany, America, Japan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Their children hang out in the most elite nightclubs of Monacos, London... And those who worked and created these factories hang out in the city parks and in the soup kitchens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Me colleagues and colleagues can't forget it and I don't want to forget it. That's not what we're talking about. We were just trying to move a clear ball from the left to the right of this assembly. Could we have prevented what happened during the privatisation over the past 15 years? I will read to you colleagues and colleagues something that has appeared, a statement by one of the leaders of the Croatian People's Party, that was Mr. Krešimir Djeba in one daily newspaper 11. 4. 92, so, 13.5 years ago. When he claimed and stated the position of the party's presidency that the proposed HDZ privatisation model is full of weaknesses and shortcomings and that it would lead to transactions that could be criminal and that certain people would benefit from some party or political merits about the closeness of government or corruption in a very cheap way in the possession of a number of companies. My colleagues and colleagues have repeated this for many years, and the attorney's office knew and the judiciary knew and the police knew, there was no desire to essentially correct the course of privatisation. You will find these statements of professional, correct, honest people in the last 13 years very much in the press. Citizens, when I have consulted them these days on how they feel about this session of the Parliament, most of them do not even know what it means to audit or financial review of conversion and privatisation. Most of them think they're actually going to get their assets back to the state, they're going to redistribute, nobody knows that this is actually a barren, useless debate that doesn't lead to anything, and it won't result in anything about what happened. Are we going to be able to achieve something? I'm not sure, but I have to admit, if the mistakes are made by colleagues and colleagues, then we Croatian politicians have such a structure that we can become the most studying and educated politicians in Europe. Without further ado, if errors require learning. Finally, it seems to me that the Liburni case mentioned here just points out and reminds us that the 90s model has not been forgotten and is not completely abandoned. That's what I'd dare say. However, in the case of Liburni, a colleague and colleagues, there is something very, very good, very good and we have not talked about it, and that is that civil society in Croatia has shown its full maturity and its strength to the association of citizens, trade unions, local and regional self-government, the media has jumped and defended Liburnia. They're... your politicians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The citizens of Croatia are responsible for the... politicians who run them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's good. It's the pressure from below on all levels of government. And I hope that this very mature and powerful civil society will soon end political will. But the message for us here is why colleagues and colleagues if we know that this was, if we all swear that we're going to work differently in the future, why don't we really start working differently. Look at the agenda of this 16th session of the Parliament. In the 60th, you will not find colleagues and colleagues two, three points that are at least indirectly related to the development of this country. We deal mostly with ourselves, we turn from hollow to empty. It is certainly not good, and we must change our way of working significantly. I would like to congratulate, among the few, Mr. Shakespeare for continuing the debate yesterday afternoon and evening without the presence of cameras because I believe that Croatian citizens should be spared from such discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43909	Please. There's a dear colleague, Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43910	Dear Mr Vice President, representatives of the rapporteur, colleagues and colleagues. For almost two days now, we are discussing topics related to the revision of conversion and privatisation, i.e. the Croatian Privatisation Fund and other services in connection with this report. Unfortunately, there's a lot of politicization, and it seems to me that the HDZ insists on imposing guilt and accusing him of robbing the state. The conversion covered nearly 3,000 former social enterprises whose value was estimated at around 80 billion kuna. The 2001 Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation covers 1556 companies. I think we should give a confession here to the State Audit Office because, besides his regular job, he's really done a high-quality and extensive job of reviewing conversion. Of these audited 1556 companies, 71 applications were submitted and 107 reports with suspicion of the existence of a criminal offence. Unfortunately, mainly due to antiquity, 54% of applications were rejected. And the courts only made four judgments. In addition, other state authorities, police and financial police and others filed 1048 other charges accusing 339 people and 79 of them were sentenced to 10 unconditional prisons. Of course, the public assessment in view of the public opinion and the court that is publicly ruling that this is a really small figure. The reasons are different, but certainly also in unspecified legislation that did not allow for the precise distinction and characterisation of an act as a criminal offence and the resolution of it from immorality. Of course, in all that time and in the conditions in which the laws were passed, in which there was no adequate control or embedded in the control mechanisms and I believe that there is also a need to seek... But I'd like to put an emphasis on something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think the failures presented in the State Audit Office's findings are serious. However, I also think that these are not the biggest problems of conversion and privatisation. In addition to the very process of conversion and privatisation, it seems to me that this situation that we have today has been much more influenced by the way in which these new owners operate or run businesses. For example, individuals bought companies in the conversion by law and mostly through their private companies d.o.o. They named these purchased companies a new supervisory board, a new administration. All purchases and sales in new companies worked through their parent company and bought shares or returned loans from the price difference. This is not directly related to the Law on Conversion and Privatisation itself, but it has terrible consequences. It wouldn't be a problem if he, in that way, had not sucked out everything that could be sucked out. The workers ended up on the stock market. The owner got rich and acquired valuable properties. It is similar when buying companies to management loans where stocks were shares of the purchased company. Such a customer took virtually no risk and could behave as he pleases. A part of the risk was later charged to banks that the state had to resuscitate. The following situation, which changed ownership relations, and I don't think it was here yet, was mentioned paying for the work in the reconstruction, as well as some infrastructure works at the state-level shares in the Croatian Privatisation Fund portfolio. In this way, construction companies became owners of companies that they had never heard of or had anything to do with their activities and did not know what to do with the shares they had received? However, he was well - informed and organized by a lobby that already had a buyer for those shares. Of course there were also those construction companies who could choose shares from the Croatian Privatisation Fund's portfolio. I must admit this was a common practice in the term of the last government. We are all aware of the bad side and the consequences of privatisation, but is HDZ guilty of exactly what it wants to show? Last night, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, he gave a great speech to me on this subject, Dr Hebrang, and it is a shame that the public could not hear the information he was making in direct television transmission. He spoke about the state of the economy found in Croatia in 1990. I'll only use a few of his numbers. Inflation 1990. 609.5%. 50% of the companies had more debts than the total value of these companies themselves and over 400 bankruptcys opened. I know best the situation from the part where I come from, so I can confirm that in 1990 all the largest companies, the largest by number of employees: the Duga Resa cotton industry in Karlovac County, so from Duga Resa with 4 thousand people, Kras with 800, DIP Ogulin totaling over 2 thousand, Vunatex was already bankrupt by then. I do not want to reduce the responsibility of the HDZ for errors in conversion and privatisation, but it is a sin to stamp thousands of worthy and honest members of the party as the culprits for various converted machinations because these machinations were made by individuals who have a name and name. The converted machinations were not made by members of only one party. They were equally proportionate in other parties. Even former socialist directors aren't very innocent in these processes. It's said that crime knows no bounds, but I'm saying he doesn't even know party property. The HDZ paid the bill for its failures in the January 3rd 2000 elections. Both on those mistakes and on the wings of SDP promises and coalition partners came to power with promises to investigate all illegal and immoral actions in privatisation. That they'll tell us which one's 100 families that acquired state property. That they would name all those who stole the state and shut them down. That they'd pay back the billions that were stored in foreign banks. Although the Assembly also confirmed or strengthened these views with its conclusions, none of them were made. For this, but also for many other reasons, both the SDP and the coalition paid the bill in the 2003 elections. And try to figure something out in the end. If we stay only on reports and findings, we really question the justification of the extensive work that the State Audit has done quality and why we have been discussing here for 2 days. The effects of privatization and tails that drag behind it are overly burdened by the overall life in Croatia to stop halfway. In order for the joint society to regain trust in the institutions, it is necessary to correct everything that can be done. Of course, what happened is not possible to change. But in order to restore credibility, it is necessary to name and name the culprits in each case. All irregularities made in the conversion of privatisation should be sanctioned, even by confiscation of property. To this question, i.e. to be proposed by the authorised authorities, they must agree to the clubs of the representatives here in this High House and adopt the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43911	Thank you very much. Replica, dear fellow Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43912	Thank you. It was an interesting presentation of fellow MPs where he tried to relativise anything that could be relativised. Well, for the situation in privatisation and the robbery that took place is also a guilty and socialist economy, let's face it, I can agree with that, and that HDZ is not responsible for everything, that there are not only HDZs involved in irregularities, but the hands on the heart. Most of what happened in the 1990s is the party that was in power at the time, and they can't agree that we're all equal and that we're all responsible. I didn't take part in the privatisation, I didn't get rich as probably a vast majority of the SDP members, and those socialist directors you're talking about, so they're '90s, '91. the years have already come to the Croatian Democratic Community, but let's put this aside. Where is the greatest guilt, and where is the greatest sin? Privatisation was conducted during the war. While 10% of the population of Croatia was at least occupied with war, as Croatian defenders died and died throughout Croatia, during the time a handful of selected people became rich and it is really cynical when the representatives of the funds say: "So who is to blame. We bought their shares because they couldn't wait." Well, that's the basic sin of the then ruling HDZ party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43913	Replication response, fellow Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43914	Mr. Pancic almost confirmed in his replica everything I said in my presentation. Of course, HDZ has managed the state since 1990 and, of course, HDZ is the most responsible for the state of affairs in the country. Thieves and hoodlums, I'm sure you'll agree with me, it's been in all the cities and I'll repeat, I don't think there's any crime, as he knows no bounds, he doesn't even know party membership. I'm pretty sure it wasn't something organized and planned. Unfortunately, we were in a situation of creating a state, in a situation where the institutions of the system were created, we were at war, in the creation of legislation, and in many lines, they took advantage of such an unsettled state. I will repeat, so once again, certainly the Croatian Democratic Community cannot escape from its part of responsibility, it is a good part of its ranks and has vented just by analysing these events that took place in the 1990s. I'm sure he'll have to do it by other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43915	Replica, dear colleague Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43916	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my dear colleague, you know, we can today convince the Croatian public of Croatian economy's decay by the '90s. And that's actually the reason for the economic downturn since '90. until 2000. But we won't be able to convince them, and we won't be able to convince them what today's living workers don't do, and they remember the '90s. years of going to work, getting paid, getting paid, getting paid contributions from pension and health insurance, and remembering that their children were too. So from that, there will really be no success and now it is actually trying to prove the failure of the Croatian public by the former coalition government with the claim that only one of the conclusions has not been made, adopted in 2002. Well, my dear colleague, Parliament's conclusions bind every government, no matter who the principle was, Ivica Racan or Mr Ivo Sanader. Therefore, the current government is obliged to follow these conclusions, but clearly there is no awareness that these conclusions are binding on all governments and we will now have the same conclusion in the proposal for the conclusions of the Croatian Peasant Party. And here we're actually going to test our will, as honest as we are about sanctioning it in a way that has been taken away from someone, robbed, etc. So that's where we're going to do the survey, test our political will as much as we're politicians in all of this, and how sincerely we want to find solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43917	Thank you very much. Replication response, dear colleague Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43918	Ms. Lalic, a respected colleague, was mentioned only in context and as one of the problems and as one of the difficulties. Whether he's the most significant or he's weighting less than some other failures about it then, but an analysis of the situation, and I'm also saying the figures that we had last night, and many of us who are relatively quickly forgotten, have refreshed our memory and brought us back to that state when we remember how the prices were wild, how the economy worked, and where we were all then. You're telling me to state one conclusion that hasn't been carried out. Yes, one, but because it's the only one based on which you won the election in 2000. I'm not talking about the conclusion, I'm talking about the topics that this conclusion regulates. The HDZ is responsible for the failures, and the HDZ is also because the conclusion is that it has lost the election because I did not have the strength to clear up by 2000. Therefore, that is a very important conclusion and that is a very important reason, I will dare say, crucial, which is why we can judge your mandate as a failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43919	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43920	Thank you. Says our colleague Jelkovac there were really some mistakes in the privatisation. No, this kind of privatisation, as you can see from the State Audit report, which your colleague has partyically called corrupt, i.e. "a slave with a mistake", has found that over 80% of there have been different types of irregularities in which there are illegalities of different degrees. So here you are, and you want to switch, which is also not true, for some thugs, individuals who were different political options, it's quite wrong. Here is the responsibility of a single policy. But let's play this one or that politics now, show real will. ... Well, that's a correction, because this isn't about the responsibilities of individual individuals. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's let it go, it's now a matter of the body of state persecution that you're preventing from working. Because the extension of deadlines to the State Audit is, and the denial of the possibility of the State Attorney's Office to process it is work for the State Archives, not the State's Attorney's Office. That's what you want. But let's let go of that policy now. What can you do in this situation now? What we've just concluded, and what we've spent, has been lifted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43921	Thank you, dear colleague. Time's up. I must say, you've become very carried on and you haven't corrected the quote, but you've replicated it and please don't abuse the Institute of Correction of the Incorrect Allegation. We're continuing the debate. It's my dear colleague Pavlic's turn. Here you go, colleague Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43922	Dear Mr. Vice President, allow me to briefly engage in this debate. At first here is to determine and expose myself, express my agreement with those who claim and say that the Croatian Parliament has no mandate to amnest those who have misused the law and made themselves rich at the expense of Croatian citizens and alienation of national wealth. I think we all have to stand behind it and I think that's what we're all talking about. Let me now quote the presentation of some parliamentary representatives in the debate on the revision of conversion and privatisation. So in this debate here are the opposition MPs speaking, so we are at a collapse where we were introduced by the model of privatisation and conversion, both strategically and essentially. The second opposition representative is speaking, objecting to the conversion and privatisation, that it failed because of the failure of pre-privatisation activities, due to an inefficient management system in the transitional period, the breakdown of small shareholders' systems and the etatisation of the economy. The opposition also points out, therefore, that by converting and privatising the narrow circle of people, which led to the etatization of the economy and the crafts of private companies with authorities. The representatives of the position, therefore speaking from the position of the authorities, we have clearly said that there have been certain abuses, but that through the institutions of the system of competent services they need to resolve because we do not want the state to identify itself with the bad entrepreneurs. Also, to advocate a revision of conversion and privatisation as a comprehensive process is equal to a political and economic salto mortale. Croatia would thus fall into economic and financial isolation. Authorities also talk about how the conversion and privatisation in Croatia cannot be observed without the circumstances in which they were conducted, which is wartime and without knowledge of the inherited situation in the economy. So that's what the MPs said about reviewing conversion and privatisation. Maybe you think it was today? No, it wasn't today, it was in 1998 in this same assembly when the SDP Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation was discussed. It's been seven years, some laws have been passed in the meantime, some conclusions have been made, and today we repeat the same words, we repeat the same sentences, so we haven't moved a millimeter since the state we were in in 98, and that's what the citizens of us certainly didn't expect from us, whether we were in power or were in opposition. I agree, therefore, that the results of the privatisation and the conversion that has been done all these years are defeated. So I would just add that, as one of those results and the burdens of our pension system, because we know that a large number of workers who have lost their jobs are actually simply transferred to the pension system to get pensions. These are young people who could have worked for another 10, 15, 20 years but because of certain, therefore, known circumstances ended up retired. Now let me look back on these reports myself, i.e. to go back to the 91st year when the law was passed so first on conversion, and later on about privatisation, i.e. on the conversion of social enterprises. So in my view, three are the main reasons why the consequences of conversion and privatisation are as they are. First, it's the concept of conversion itself. The government or then the government has chosen one form of conversion that is therefore based on the purchase of shares. After the fall of socialism, the problem arose that the economic system in the Republic of Croatia was adapted to the conditions of free entrepreneurship, the key problem then was reprivatisation. What does that mean? This means an ideal natural and fair path to reprivatisation could be next, and this has been used by some countries in our environment and, as far as I can see, it's quite well done. The first step would be denationalisation, a second step in dividing employees and former employees of that property that they created by their work, division, and not sales, and a third, division of other ownership, also not sales. Sharing other ownership of other citizens and state. Reprivatisation was then rejected and the term of conversion appeared, something new was happening again. In 1991, therefore, the Law on the Conversion of social enterprises was passed. That law actually worked two things out. How to turn a social enterprise into a company and how to privatise a company. So conversion and privatisation are not synonyms. Also, according to the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises, privatisation does not mean the donation or appointment of titleholders of ownership but real sales. The second reason why such a concept has actually failed is the non-compliance and uncertainty of the rules, the same is said about the work of the State Attorney's Office that stands out, namely the problem of non-compliance and non-conformity with the newly established social economic relations, because some did not contain criminal sanctions. Therefore, such a situation in the legislation has also led to different views in interpreting the rules where the State Attorney's Office has approached more life and reality in this interpretation by applying the target interpretation, and we have received confirmation of our position from the Croatian Parliament through the requested authentic interpretation of Article 106. Criminal law, etc. etc. So inconsistencies and inconsistencies. Now the question can be asked whether a bad law was made, whether it was made by bad experts, or whether it was done on purpose by such an unspeakable nature so that it could be easily misused as such. And so that's exactly the third part why conversion and privatisation was, that's exactly what criminal acts and abuses of these laws are about. Here, as here, illustration can be examples of what happened to small shareholders. We know that the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises envisioned the sale of shares or shares in companies, employees and before employees at a discount of 20% plus 1% for each year of internships to the value of 20,000 marks, but there were additional benefits later added, so whoever paid 5% had already had management rights or could therefore come to even more favourable payment terms. But what happened? There's been an abuse. There were certain bags that offered people a certain price for shares. For 20,000 marks, people could almost get 3, 4 or 5 thousand marks on their hands, and these bags were further mixed with those shares. These were speculators who were not interested in keeping the company functioning in one quality rhythm, but might have been more important to sell this company on the basis of these shares. And it was all the opposite of the law that says this State's Attorney's Office report. Another failure in the law or possible abuse was that it was possible for state banks which were the biggest creditors of social enterprises to convert their claim into shares or shares. There is, therefore, the most famous case of "Free Dalmatia". And while the Croatian Privatisation Fund from the sale of companies had the prescribed procedure, the public tender, the selection of the best bidder, etc., the banks began to sell and exchange their shares as if these shares and shared their private ownership and as if they were private. There are many, therefore, examples of abuse. This is all in the State's Attorney's Office's report, and unfortunately the result is only a small number of those directly responsible for it. And in the end, then, he would agree with those who suggested these conclusions. That we must punish those who have sinned, who have violated the laws. We have to impose sanctions on them. Here we have different suggestions in these bill proposals, from extra profit taxes and the like, right? And we might as well consider the Institute of Harmfulness. And also, most importantly, to control the current privatisations that are under way so that we don't have to repeat what we had. Let me just add that I'm for individual responsibility. That everyone has to be responsible for what they've done. So, not collective responsibility. People also expect if they can't get material satisfaction, that at least they get moral satisfaction, those that have been damaged in conversion and privatisation. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43923	Thank you very much, dear colleague. It's next, dear colleague Jaksa Marasovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. It's my dear colleague Tonci Tadic's turn. Here's a colleague of Tadic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43924	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected gentlemen from the Croatian Government, the Croatian National Bank and the State Audit Office. The privatisation review law was passed in 2001 with a full year and a half of delays. And in that law, according to our court, a fundamental mistake has already been made. And that's because it only provides for the revision of individual companies, so only those for whom the application is filed, not all companies. Which practically means that it has already gone to a kind of discrimination within them. On the other hand, the Law lays down a time limit for the revision to be carried out and all of this brings us together to one truly embarrassing conclusion, which is that all the cases of privatisation that are then revised need to be made by the Parliament. The deadline of the Law stands out, we believe that the revision should still be extended to a whole series of other cases. What's even scarier about this is the fact that from all these reports that we have here today, including this report on bank conversion and their privatisation that we haven't even talked about here today during this assembly debate. Two key documents didn't actually come out of all these reports. On the one hand, we still haven't received the new Privatisation Act, and we still don't have the Public-private Partnership Act, but the Croatian Government and the Privatisation Fund are misleading us by saying that privatisation is carried out through a public-private partnership, which is just as pointless as telling you that someone is carrying out the killing through resuscitation. In fact, public-private partnerships are not privatisations. Privatisation is not a public-private partnership and a public-private partnership needs to be finally passed by a special law to this country. Unfortunately, neither the Privatisation Fund nor the Privatisation Fund has learned anything, they have learned nothing from the findings of the privatisation review so far. And that's how it proves it on one side and the TLM case where there's a company that only has a TLM transport unit that has a real estate of 21 thousand squares. Only that 100 euros per square square at the entrance to Sibenik with all building permits, only the value of that field is worth, therefore, about 16 million kuna. So 10 times what this company was sold for, and the company was sold for a million and 600 thousand kuna. So if you have 800 truck drivers in Dalmatia, only those 800 truck drivers in Dalmatia spend a day at lunch more than they paid for Promal, therefore, for the TLM transport unit. It was similar in Regeneration Zabok, where instead of a strategic partner going to camouflage privatisation through allegedly working stock, all of this would be taken over by the director and some of his partners who would be careful to capitalize on the sale of real estate. These two cases actually show us that nothing has changed. That nothing has been learned from these reports and that everything is happening in the same way. And what's more interesting is that all this is happening together under the same '96 Privatisation Act that neither passed nor passed, and this government didn't have the strength to change, but they all said the law was bad. Of course, as I said last night at the end of the debate on behalf of our club, I'm afraid this debate would also be that today it would be so tumultuous that there has not been an affair with the privatisation of Liburni Riviera Hotel, i.e. that there has not been a kind of wall and fierce resistance of the Croatian public. And that's exactly in terms of privatization through PIFs that have been unworthy all these years. The very concept of privatisation through PIFs, i.e. coupon privatisation, is completely pointless. Therefore, it expects private privatisation and investment funds to take better care of the victims of the Homeland War than if the Croatian state is at least naive. Unless there are other very specific material interests behind it. Turns out Ostora and Count Eltz did everything they did from pure humanitarian initiatives. Come on, please, who can really believe that? But why did all this go without far better legal control, that is, why the state didn't think of it and formed some defensive or exile fund and entrusted the fund with those shares and then that the state fund cared about dividends. Rather, it was expected to be better done by private individuals who would, of course, always look to their private interests. Another thing that is completely unclear is why this process was not properly done, but some companies that did not have to be privatised were privatized. They weren't coupon-privatised ones who had to be. All in all, it was done quite mixed up, which is what the state audit find is also very good about. And then we get to the craziest part, and that's the stock exchange. The replacement of shares, which is most interesting, is not foreseen by the PIF law at all, but it is nevertheless implemented because they have found that their shares are not good, so if they are not good, then why didn't the PIFs return them and their allegedly unquality shares, they get coupons back and the whole auction procedure is repeated with the others. State audit and there provides a very interesting example when the shares of Sugarana Virovitica were returned and in exchange the PIFs of Velebit and PIF Dom received shares of the Riviera holding in Poreč which are more valuable by 92% than those returned. To be exact, or figuratively speaking, you go into the store and buy some cocktails with a gift voucher, you make them two circles in nature, and then you go back to the store and replace those same cocktails at the request of the best shoes in the store. It was a stock exchange, for which there is no basis in the PIF Act. The craziest thing that's going on is that it's done beyond the market, but it's a direct settlement by the PIF Privatisation Fund, so you're not going to do what you want, you want it, great, great, just take all the problems and, of course, the PIF wasn't supposed to conclude any deal with the PIFs on the exchange of shares until these PIFs were entered into the court register and until they put their shares on the regulated public market shares. But it was all done together. After that we come to the shift of power, the new government as well as the existing one, we're afraid she didn't have the courage to put an end to all this together. Unfortunately, no one has had the courage to claim that the whole process is not going as planned by the PIF Act, they have not had the courage to undo all the zero and illegal swap agreements and have not had the courage to set up a fund for war victims who would have taken over a job instead of the PIFs, instead it went to arbitration, to settlements, and in fact everything that happened in Liburnia was the last in a series of arbitrary decisions, arbitrary allocation of shares, arbitrary exchange of shares, arbitrary debt establishment, arbitrary debt assessment, arbitrary exchange, i.e. a settlement with Liburnia. So if there was arbitraryness then ladies and gentlemen were in a whole series of arbitrarys from 98th to today, and it really needs to be determined here. So, what is ultimately a key question is whether we as a Croatian Parliament can tolerate further illegal management, illegally acquired property, or shares acquired through numerous irregularities and illegalities if this is the case by the state audit, I believe that we cannot and in this sense these conclusions are proposed, or the conclusions which we want to commit to the Croatian government to form legal procedures for the confiscation of property illegally acquired during privatisation to return to the owners of which it has been illegally seized. We also ask that the state review audits privatisation and Promal tlm in Sibenik and Liburni Riviera in Opatija and that it submits a report to the Croatian Parliament within 90 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43925	Thank you very much. Replica esteemed representative Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43926	Dear fellow, the easiest thing to do is just accuse and re-expand the subject of everyone who was in power is garbage, and everyone who was in power has done nothing, these are difficult and irresponsible thesis. When we talk about coupon privatisation, especially when we talk about swapping shares, the former coalition government refused to make any remaining swaps, no replacements were made after the coalition government. We didn't bring arbitration, not modest, ambitious, insatiable people called... and Eltz sued the state and brought arbitration. We were defending ourselves. The state's attorney's office has tons of material that the coalition government personally gave about non-legislability. Because here we want to say very clearly that certain shares have been given into coupon privatisation with 51% and two PIFs, especially Eltz and Ostoja water and Petrokemija Kutin and the entire organic petrochemia they destroyed and 4 years of struggle to preserve petrochemia from destruction because they don't care to expand production, they care about real estate. And the state attorney's office has these papers and papers have been given, in the Croatian Parliament were proposals to amend the Law on PIFs I wouldn't say that the government of the coalition had not received support for these changes in the Croatian Parliament, this was also shown by internal conflicts but this might show what was fundamental when the SDP was the only one I didn't give the money to. It is, unfortunately, true, because we tried to reduce their impact on the destruction of the Croatian economy but failed. So please don't put us in the same basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43927	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43928	Thank you, Mr. President. While Split's archbishop, Metropolitan Barisic, preached on September 4th in Ludbreg, the present statesmen and the people repeatedly stopped him by clapping not only because he stood up for a workless Sunday. The public votes conveyed this on Sunday, and he spoke much more of an earthquake about conversion. The first in our public compared the transformation into mass with the transformation into economy. Perhaps listeners failed to grasp the reach of those words, converting is the most important event in the Eucharistic worship of the Mass, when the priest in Jesus ’ name says that the bread on the altar becomes his body for us to surrender. By giving ourselves to us Jesus changes the world, all who trust him must give themselves to others. The transfiguration from the altar wants to capture people, it doesn't happen without suffering people join his sacrifice to Passion. The process is slow and painful but unstoppable. Anyone who accepts this knows what he is sacrificing for and is already involved with Jesus in his resurrection, such people are the pretaste of the world’s great final changes, but he pointed out the archbishop, we experienced another quite opposite conversion of the one to the economy. As Jesus gives his body for us, skilled workers and conversions take everything for themselves. The process of conversion of ownership, privatisation in our free country was largely or even most of the time a systematic deliberate robbery. Newly roasted rich people have damaged the people and the state no less than criminal aggressors. We've broken the aggression, and at least we'll have a hard time getting over it, and it's only possible for us to look at the whole thing and not a lot of people who hope that these crimes are gonna get to the justice system. Can we be comforted by the fact that the most successful tycoons robbed yet invest in economic progress, that the fewer companies that have been robbed are closing down, the money is being invested in other investment ventures and the fired workers are leaving it on the street. Jesus ’ mental understanding of conversion would be a prelude to this new breakthrough of hell into our daily life. Instead of starting my presentation, I read, quoted Zivko Kustic, and since 13.9. it was his morning sermon in one of our daily newspapers. Now I'm moving on to my part of the debate. So it is true that Croatia was exposed to aggression and paid a huge price for its freedom and independence. We won that battle, although during it it was partly confirmed and that next saying, "A poor woman in war gives a son and a rich cow." But in our case, unfortunately, the facts talk about it, we also had a Croatian specificity that our people do not know about either. During the Homeland War, the chosen ones practically became rich and gave neither themselves nor cow. I didn't mean to go back in history and I don't want to go back to the past ever, but I expected and sincerely hope and I expect that one day we will break off with practice and turn to the future. And I expect that we will also meet the demands of the Croatian Parliament that we have brought ourselves, which is that the Croatian Parliament will presently discuss this debate and within ninety days in order to remove irregularities, illegalities and possible damage damages to the Republic of Croatia caused by the conversion and privatisation, including the creation of a new Privatisation Act, which should be defined among other things by the ESOP model. That's what I expected, and I expected such an argument today, and I expect it all the time. We adopted today a law extending the work, which the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation extends to a year and we haven't said what the Office of State Audit should do, we haven't given them any responsibilities. That's not what conversion and privatisation can do, and this kind of opinion on conversion and privatisation can change. I know I'm involved in all this. My vote against or voting for is just as much a part of this whole thing. And I apologize for taking part in this and I can't change anything. "Mea culpa, mea maxa culpa."
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43929	The Honorable Representative of the Shyme of the Brass, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43930	Here, I'm only using this as a cause. I'm sorry that yesterday or today I couldn't give my modest vision in all of this without the intention of of course changing the world or history, but on my own example, I would say at least some examples that this wasn't a robbery and that we weren't all thieves and even less that we weren't criminals. I left the financial director's post in the hardest days and accepted the defense of my city. At the time, I led the main war to save the Dalmatian bank in Zadar, which is more recollection of the goal of saving it for the city and its inhabitants because it took the largest part of the company into bankruptcy in Zadar, and it happened with the entire banking sector, and I am sorry that I don't have time because I have to fly quickly in view of this short time. The second case, we could all, I did and saved the tanker's sailing, did and saved some more of the company's Tourist Hotel in Zadar, etc. And personally. So it could have been. Secondly, I did not favor my friends to privatize the market, hotels, or anything like others. Therefore, I made a maximum contribution and I never got a warrant from anyone to act in order to rob and steal, which these stories about the organised robbery of the Croatian state are repeatedly repeated here. I keep that all those who wanted to give their pain could give it as they can today. And today, in the end, given the very short time through this replica, I have to say that not everything has been robbed, that those who have been robbed have to answer but through the institutions of the state that are responding and we here need to create a positive business atmosphere in a way that keeps the rest of the national wealth in our national interest. So if I am one of the small examples of this Croatian state then it is clear that there are much larger and more positive examples in this country. So we're neither thieves nor even less criminals. If I am, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43931	The answer to the replica Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43932	I thank you. I will deliver a phonogram of your replica to Zivka Kustic and archbishop Barisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43933	I was there as the President of the Parliament because the Parliament is the patron of the Holy Sunday in Ludbreg. Archbishop Barisic compared two conversions but what you say, as you quoted Zivko Kustic's sermon in the daily newspaper, is not a sermon. Zivko Kustic does not preach in daily newspapers. He's got his column on the Morning List. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43934	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, gentlemen of the state institutions, colleagues and colleagues! What we are doing now, these two days of the topic we are dealing with, and the prospect of something epochal happening in the future, can best reflect the famous people's saying about big traffic and small profits. Why is that? It's just because we don't give people the power to resurrect the dead and a large part of the privatized economy are dead people reduced to the value of a square meter of real estate. We're not given a chance to get the time back and we can fix the mistake. We can just get a new experience and not make a new mistake. The problem is that today, by ineffectiveness or depravity of the legal system, everything is done to prove that a mistake is not a mistake. And the mistake is that privatisation began to be spent in times of solidarity and even carrying the burden of war. It is a mistake and amorality in that time and time to encourage egoism and prey but it is very clever of the creators of the political system. During that time, defenders were in trenches, cunning in chairs and workers were unfortunately impressed by the modified self-management in the form of working stockholders. Of course, in the whole story, those who knew and had at least a connection and information prospered. I bear witness here and now that the creators of privatisation are not even aware today how many human fates they have endangered, how many families they have destroyed, how many sleepless nights are Croatian citizens. Of course, they were always far from tears, anger, and poverty. I have the strength and the right to speak in this high house because I was with these people from 1994 to 2003, and I know what is the dimension of human egoism and, on the other hand, human grief and distress. I was a participant during that period in cases where workers kept an incarcerated director who paid off shares in business and did not pay workers. In late 1999, the person was awarded by the Croatian Privatisation Fund in such a way that the Croatian Privatisation Fund broke the purchase contract, accepted the return of unpaid shares and released the mortgage at the family house. The coalition government did not sanction this phenomenon and only in Istria were there 10 such cases of Laguna Comerce Poreč and Istria plastics Pazin are only the most pronounced examples. What to say for the privatization of the buje digitron in which workers have never obtained the first right simply because the location is potentially worth the future Schengen border. Workers' representatives, I am sorry that there is no Mr. Djapic here who is always on the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of Citizens so that he can testify to what we say, the workers' representatives have visited all institutions that mean something in Croatia but for them there is no justice. A ray of hope appeared at the end of 2000, and it was also witnessed because I participated in these processes when everyone hoped that by respecting the social partners would introduce a new quality of management of the state portfolio and partially correct the injustices. Give the need to infuse the fallen companies and then quality and transparently privatize them through the selection of more models than... giving for one kuna to a strategic partner, so-called Social sales, competition, stock exchange. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, during this period, however, new, significant actors, stunts and sales appeared and these actors were pifs and banks. Thus, the sale of tourist arenas on the stock market for 8% of the value of the converted capital and the Calvary of the Istrian Bank has been shown to be legal but has not yet been proven to be necessary and meaningful or well-designed scenarios. The sale of the Istrian land to the priceless at that time gives me the right to doubt it today. I said that at the end of 2000 that a new hope had emerged, however, over the next year it was immersed in party ambitions and the result was a new bankruptcy plague that destroyed 2/3 of the state portfolio in Istria, but it should be said that so past companies that had no political metrics and those where there was a scenario that the culprits for the catastrophic business in the sale of real estate indirectly earned a few more. But dear gentlemen, there has been an exception to all the rules in Istria for 10 years now, definitely of all the rules, it does, or pays, payes off the liabilities of a company that has more than a share capital in the blockade, the jury accounts for 10 years, the company over which the bankruptcy was opened after a year and a half after the year of the previous procedure. And imagine after 6 months by the decision of the High Commercial Court in Zagreb, the decision on bankruptcy was annulled for formal reasons. And no believer and no state under official duty is launching a new bankruptcy, but a Varazdin company is intensively buying on about worthless shares, even this year. Gentlemen, real estate, real estate not on the coast are valuable, and in Rovinj the prices of real estate to the sky are high. Gentlemen of the executive and judicial authority, initiate, run, solve, here is a challenge, it will be a greater contribution to this debate than the debate on the quality of the report, because it is expected that radical areas in this area will make political blocks that are the creators of privatisation and those who have had the chance to change it or have not, or could not, it is very illusory. That's what anyone will know when they have to make other political options. The only thing you can and won't say is that there's almost nothing you can do right now except endlessly laminate reports on the principle of what would happen if there were. It would be fair not to mix patriotism and justice and show determination that the same practice will not continue to be used and that we will change the approach, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia expect it, are not so demanding, but they expect us to say enough, we will no longer, we are grown up and we want to be responsible, responsible, responsible Parliament, responsible executive, responsible judicial authority. So we expect our citizens, this determination that we will not continue to use the same practice, that we will change our approach and not again today and today and here on the unseen offer of ESOP, on the unseen offer of public private partnership and other beautiful ones, to be free of English names for something that Croatian citizens do not understand and apriors doubt that you are selling me a candle horn again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43935	Thank you very much. Replica's esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43936	I agree with Mr. Hrejo that it's not possible... Dead people can't go back in time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm surprised Mr. Hrelja is coming back to the Istrian bank. And now I'm going to remind him that the Istrian Bank has been bankrupt three times, today it's a good bank, clearly owned by the OTP. The first time she went bankrupt there before 93 and all the banks that followed the shipbuilding. And now to tell you that Director Floricic over his son has 6% TDR today, Uljannik, sailing it's just, that two things 50 million euros. The biggest thing that has happened to Istria is to resuscitate an Istrian bank without one kuna of state money and if it had failed citizens would have lost through the form of an insurance savings or not an insurance of 700 million kuna, the state of 800 million kuna, would have withdrawn over 3,000 jobs where your union didn't want to participate. The second time she went bankrupt in 97 when Kutle took over 40% of the Istrian bank and the third time the Croatian National Bank sent that manager or I don't know what to call him. The Rijeka Bank has been renovated twice plus the third time in 2001. The Istrian bank didn't get a single kuna from the state budget. How could you drive out the Kutla if you didn't give him something when he was one of the most powerful people in this country? Well, let's not just fool around and let's not set ourselves up. As is the fact with the arena tourist. The owner of the expansion, it's a Czech-American private investment fund, threatened 2000 bankruptcy, 120 million kunas had outstanding outstanding claims, over 200 million kuna commitments, it was a huge pressure on the Istrian bank. Well, I guess someone couldn't influence who the expansion would sell the arena tourist to. At that time, however, both workers and trade unions and small shareholders were simply trying to save the company.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43937	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43938	I don't understand why Mr. Cain in this assembly is so angry. The fact is that I was the leader, that I was, please, I was listening to you, Mr. Caine. I ask you to be parliamentary,...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43939	Comrade Cain!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43940	Mr. Caine, I confirm your words that I was the head of the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia and I have never, definitely never interfered in those situations where I could be a cover for the wicked... and you have confirmed them yourself about policy involvement in previous actions around the Istrian bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if I could prove what I know and you can prove it then the truth about the Istrian bank and the arena tourist would be very different and I know and I have reliable information, but there's no evidence because you've taken the evidence aside. Mr. President... [[You're a jerk!]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43941	Comrade Cain! Hold on a second!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43942	Mr. President, I'm asking you not to allow such an insult. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43943	My colleague Caine, I give you a warning and I take away your word more because this is the precedent one that, how dare you even throw a fellow representative that he's a jerk? How come you're not ashamed of your colleague Cain? How did you not... How can you not be ashamed? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Shame on you! [[Falsification!]] Shame on you! ... [[Falsification!]] Shame on you! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Who's there to protect? You and each other. Not just one side.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43944	Mr. President, who had the word here? I'm done. Is the time up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43945	Mr. Caine, you've also got a reminder that you're taking away words, so you're going to keep this topic quiet from now on. Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković. Miroslav Rozic. Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43946	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I think there's really a lot of that said here and I'll try to be, I'll try to shorten my debate. I think last night's data here from 1990 statistical yearbooks best speak about the preparation of the state of Croatian economy and Croatian businesses before the war itself. I think it's good for some of them to repeat. So these were companies that had more losses by 5 and a half times than a battery. These are businesses, we're talking about companies where expenditures grew faster by 17 and a half times their income. These are companies that were also living in an inflation environment of 609%. These are companies where more than four hundred have already been launched, including four hundred bankruptcys. These are companies that operated in one economic environment, which actually had up to 50% less investment than 10 years earlier, so 1980. It's a time when there were 200 thousand unemployed. So now we're talking about the number of unemployed in Croatia that's huge. Two hundred thousand unemployed and another four thousand who were fictitiously employed. That's right. And when you add that up, it's almost, it's actually, it's actually true you told your colleague Linic 600,000. So in time and debt of $7 billion. It was a time of direct aggression on Croatia and a time when the communist government still managed all the resources and businesses. And the directors were from that circle. After that, there was aggression in such environments. With 30 billion damages, with a decline in gross national income of 50% a year. So parallel to aggression was made and privatization and were made, errors were made. I think they were made and missed during the defenses when the bare-arms were storming the enemy because they had to. It also had to be used to raise some funds. Last night we heard from a minister in the Croatian government who said the funds were welcome. And those who have committed crime deserve our contempt especially at a time when someone has given their life for Croatia. And now what Mr. Kapraljevic said about the poor giving children and the rich not knowing how to steal, he said. I don't agree with that. In Croatia, Croatia had the war it had imposed and it was difficult, however, there was something great. I don't know anyone who's been caught by force and taken to war. The warlords volunteered. Thus, no one gave or sacrificed anyone, but every willing sacrifice accepted and shared it. Of course there were those who weren't involved. But we have Croatia. That's more important than counting who didn't participate in the defense. If we look at the period just from 2000, 2000 to 2004 then we'll see so the gap was before. And in that period from 2000 to 2004, let's remember, I think we need this not to object. No one has the right to accuse anyone here of anything if that person is not truly guilty and we have no proof of it. However, it is evident that here among us are the people who were sitting in the government at the time who privatised telecommunications, which privatized much of the INA in the circumstances it is. Rijeka's bank was rehabilitated and Lenac was privatized and Excelsior then the government budget deficit that I'm not talking to Savudrija's rains and so on. But here's a very, very big picture. And this icon walks every hour and every day and night around the Croatian Parliament and the Government and so on, and it's a rolling stock. It's a fleet that's the way it is. It's buying 22 cars under the circumstances actually "leasing" rent 22 cars From the'rent czar' as they are to me, I won't even say what they are. [[Intruder: Renta car.]] But those who have made some self-evaluations as well as the public. That for every car reportedly 8 grand, renting costs 8 grand each month. And if we multiply that by 12 months a year and imagine a contract made for 8 years. So today we have vehicles, twenty-two vehicles, twenty-two vehicles for which we pay 800 thousand kuna a year. And that's what the government of the Racan border did. And then her ministers, her MPs, are sitting here amongst us. That's all they know and point their finger at 99% of us who haven't eaten or smelled a bow. But thank God you participated in the defense. But not in privatisation. But not in a robbery and not in anything immoral. In 2000, the government of Ivica Racana promised to make many changes. But she soon realized that nationalisation, I guess some remembered in 1946, was impossible to implement. It is especially impossible to implement if laws are to be respected. They met very quickly with that fact, and I would say they gave up on it, and unfortunately they moved on to this field I mentioned earlier. And it's really embarrassing. And it's especially embarrassing that after that, they didn't learn lessons and they didn't change the way we acted and the attitude, what we were saying. It's what's left in the same positions and the same, and it's what's thought. I said how a man feels here who neither took part in the privatisation nor got one lip. How can a man and the public who follows this debate feel, on the one hand, we have people who have a job and whose children have security and regardless of patriotism and charity, they find it much easier to look at all of this. But what about those who don't have a job? They're the subject of my attention present and only before them are we all here and all the people in power should feel respect and regret, not them, but the fact that they can't do more for them now and this hour and truly regret themselves, us. Because our pleasure of life can't be complete unless it's around us, around me. All the other gentlemen are demagogy and hypocrisy, because we have no right to it, neither I nor any of us. I'd like to conclude. This government needs support to prevent and prevent everything that has happened and bad. This government needs support for this proposed law, because it is a sort of response to all this and to the unfulfilled commitment of the 2002 Parliament to the previous government. In the end, this government also needs support for the entry into the European Union, because I believe that joining the European Union will bring more work and more good life to those who do not have it, in the first place, and to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43947	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43948	I give up, even a dear God wouldn't make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43949	We have several replicas, a respected representative of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43950	Thank you. Well, here's colleague Bagarić in the heat of the debate and the desire to prove again what he tried on several occasions during today's day, precisely this proof of the rotency of the economy until the 1990s. A year, he said it was until '90. the year, or '90s. the year that there were 400,000 fictitious employees and 200 thousand unemployed. I guess that's these 400 grand just to cover this number that's been found to be out of a job. Dear counterpart Bagarić, these 400 thousand you say were fictitiously employed were paid and received, i.e. they were paid a contribution to it. These 200 grand, you know, the unemployed are still much less than today, than we have 360 thousand unemployed, a million and 18 thousand pensioners, and a '90s. There were 200 thousand unemployed and 500 thousand pensioners each year. The numbers speak for themselves. Besides, there's no logical sequence. You know, when you're talking about a zero-value drone and then when we compose it with the find of the State Audit Office that determined the value of the property that entered the privatisation process of 80 billion kuna, then it's completely defusing you. And as for supporting entry into the European Union, I think that's where the consensus has been reached. However, the entry into the European Union itself depends on other standards that Croatia will achieve, not just some, but also standards regarding parliamentary life and parliamentary political culture in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43951	Thank you. Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43952	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I was wrong because I didn't note that those 400 thousand had paid, that's correct. However, they were paid by the primary money mission, so on the account of inflation, external duties, etc. simply, the country went where it went and the economy went where it went. Well, that's the best proof of everything I said was true, 400 thousand people were getting paid, and it didn't work, nor did it produce. That's the best proof of what I've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43953	Thank you. Another replica, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43954	It's true what he said to his colleague that in the war, there was an attack on the defense, to freedom. But it's equally true that at that time, they were only chosen, as your party colleague says, and that they were just aware of the nation, they had this task of chasing for release and dissipating those same warriors of that Krama, the very people's wealth, which you are now declaring as an "old theft". So, these people who have been cheated and robbed still have thanks for being relieved that on their backs, because they no longer had houses, they don't carry that property, the job that you're declaring here, your colleagues, an "old larceny". And so these national-aware people, who are only two hundredths, as your colleague said, were given even more important, I suppose, this mission, you only nationally conscious, so nationally aware that for a long time the Croatian people and citizens of Croatia will not, long from that awareness, regain their own consciousness.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43955	Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43956	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, we're just different, and thank God, my answer to yours is that. So we differ, we understand Croatia differently, we understand differently what was aggression, we understand differently what was a defense. You, if you were listening to me, you could hear that I said that the defence of Croatia against aggression was also an attack in terms of defence, in terms of defending your own home. Well, then you had to get out, I don't know, even if you're poorly armed and I don't know how to defend yourself. And one of the defenses was what I said. So, I think we understand each other completely, but I don't understand why you've been answering me at all. And another thing, especially why you incorrectly and wrongly interpret colleagues of Lucia's hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43957	Third replica, the respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43958	Yes, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Bagaric, as Mr. Hebrang spoke yesterday from the mercy of the former state who had nothing. I agree with them that she was a pain in the ass, if she hadn't been a pain in the ass or the devil would have taken her, but I have to say something for the truth. So HDZ's power, HDZ's power since May of '90. She took over Croatia's leadership, what's left of that state has estimated 24 billion marks, no public companies and no banks. No public business. About that much was the value of public enterprises, about. And that's a fact, that's for the truth. Second of all, you mentioned inflation. I'm many years old, but I remember. Ante Markovic introduced a conversion dinar worth 1 mark 7 dinars. And that cost two years, '89. And in '90, it lasted. So the inflation as much as it could be calculated was gone. People had salaries, ask them today how they lived, ask them. And Yugoslavia didn't fail because of the converting dinar. He took the devil away from Yugoslavia for other reasons. Unfortunately, it failed in the war. It would have been better if it hadn't been for the war and if we could have done it like the Czechs and the Slovaks, divided by a peaceful path. Neither would we have this damage that we have since the war, nor would we have this damage that we have in conversion. By the way, we're all probably all thinking the same thing about conversion, and that's the same thing as being thrown from the sky, it's not to collect anymore. It's you talking about turning and going back, it's like... The contract, Ivo Lonchar, knows what last year's snow is. [[You don't understand.]] Well, let me tell you something else about how they've outlined the transformation of some, some of the moral verticals of some, like church moral verticals. Cardinal Bozanic said "the sin of structures" in 99. And a moral vertical the senior parliamentarians know, which died 10 years ago, in the 10th month of the 95th election campaign, was sitting here in the Parliament in office of 92-95. His name is Velimir Terzic defined it this way. Other European states have the mafia, and we have the mafia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43959	Okay. Thank you. Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43960	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Jaksa, you mentioned Mr Markovic and his time. I was also busy at the time and I remember that time. Not as far as I know, she did not collapse at the time of the state led by Ante Markovic because of the course or not the course, or this or that, I will just tell you a little bit, but because he tried to keep the community of the countries on the principle on which it was unsustainable and it did not crash at that time Croatians but Slobodan Milosevic. Therefore, Ante Markovic is a man who tried to keep Yugoslavia on the principles he thought it could, but it proved to be ineffective and impossible. So much for Anti Markovic. When it comes to this robbery, the transformation in time doesn't know me, the Homeland War, etc. So you know how I look at it and what I think about it? Here, I'll just tell you next. Neither Washington nor Churchill any great statesman nor Jota is less important and great because of that while he was creating a state and his government fought for it, some mice there didn't know I didn't know, robbed, I don't know what. Well, it's embarrassing to them, not to that authority, not to this leadership, and especially not to this political leadership of HDZ, that is, Croatia and this government, which, even if it was bad, has removed and removed from its tissue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43961	And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43962	Thank you. The esteemed colleague Bagaric is once again in a series of debates in the style of "hold the thief". Looks like it's not the criminal who robbed each other, the third, the tenth bank, but the wrong savings that were in that bank that didn't stop him or did not stop him, or guilty I don't know, cops who couldn't trace him. And indeed our sin, the sin of the last government, is that we have failed to break the litter of crime and corruption, and the reasons why it happened and it could come to a long and wide discussion. Also, counterpart Bagaric is talking about a rotten economy. So I ask the question, why didn't someone knock on the hotel door and offer me the bank to take it? I've already got some, now I'm going to lie, 80, 90 or 100 shares, and after some time a week or two days ago digging through things I also found a memo from one of the PIFs that offers that same shares that are meant to be given to the victims, bought at some price. I don't know if I'd get a few hundred kunas back then, the stock's staying with me, and I can get it back to the state because I don't want to get rich at the expense of the state and all the citizens. Also colleague Bagaric, here I am finishing up, mentioning some rolling stock. I don't know, when I was in the government I was driving alone, or I had a vehicle that seemed to me from 96 or 97, meaning inherited. So I don't know if you're looking at the current fleet of this government, it's really something that's really improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43963	Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43964	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow, you have promised to walk on foot to work, bicycles, and so on. And very soon you're worth it and praiseworthy, you've usually left and sold out, you've sold out the vehicles as much as my memory serves, and you've bought these vehicles that I've been talking about. I talked about these vehicles and circumstances, not bought, rented, and now they're those vehicles. It's about the car. As for your persecution and your position. Well, I know you've been a defense attorney, right, so I can't understand how a young man can accept the defendant on the way out, put himself in the position of exile, and still expect someone to knock on his door and give him neither do I, to privatize anything. I don't blame you for that, but I resent you when you became a minister for solidarity with these, or for not persecuting them because you promised you would. And on the other hand, like mushrooms after the rain, with you together your colleagues continued to do the same, but no longer in war but in peace. Well, that's terrible!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43965	Okay. Now let's go to, let's ladies and gentlemen finish this debate, we've got a few more club representatives. Five minutes of debate. The IDS club was excluded from the debate because he was taken from the president of the club. Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43966	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the state institutions. Starting with the exiled principles and tasks of the Croatian Retirement Party, we would be satisfied with the solutions at the end of this debate and would certainly give them an advantage to take away property for all those who have abused the position or in any way benefit from privatisation in terms of privatisation engineering. This will be possible in our opinion only if at least 30 representatives of the Croatian Pension Party sit in the next term of office in the parliamentary benches. Until then, we won't be doing anything in vain, we won't be thrilled with the new unverified privatisation models. The only thing we're going to ask is to follow the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament in April 2005, to work on them and to discuss and see their implementation. The citizens of Croatia, especially our members, would certainly appreciate the small shifts of this government and any new government in determining the responsibilities of individuals for the destruction and destruction of the public good of the Republic of Croatia. They would be very happy to support the amendments and additions to the Penal Code, under which action against public goods and public interest would not become obsolete. We will accept these reports as professionally correct, as we have accepted the amendments and additions to the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, but we will insist on implementing the April conclusions. We in Croatia have a pensioner's party only one remark, and this is the fact that the State Agency's report on deposit insurance and bank recovery cannot show the right dimension of the participation of the banking system in the course of conversion and privatisation. For us in Croatia, it is crystal clear that the financial system is at the beginning and end of the story, i.e. a factor that closes the vicious circle of privatisation, which is from this report it is not possible to see. Mr. Cain himself in the replica confirmed the bank's involvement in all privatisation processes and financial capital and politics. I speak from the perspective of Istria. Just esteemed colleagues and colleagues, please do not declare that you and those who have exploited the privatisation model in your ranks have cleared up. Let's look at what key figures of the first and second phases of privatisation are dealing with today, whether they were acting as executive authority or run by institutions. Neither did they clear up first with their own, nor did others sanction the first, nor did others clear up with their own. Only individual problems can be solved now, but not the system. The Croatian party of pensioners and our voters are victims of privatisation, they are aware that this raw and raw privatisation has divided the citizens of Croatia into tycoons, you can tell how many there are, Dajkun, see how many bureaucracys there are, and those without kuna. And that this problem cannot be solved in a way that the political position or opposition opens the problem, block solutions and measure here on the public scene political power. It's a cheap party, and we need to find a solution in political and civil consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43967	Thank you. Club representatives of HSLS, DC, LS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43968	Thank you, Mr. President, dear government and institution representatives, dear colleagues and colleagues. We could also ask ourselves what can be said after what we have been listening to for two days. In short, all of this has already been seen, we've heard this before, and as things stand, I'm afraid we'll hear it again in due course. That we're going to come back to some conclusions, that after a while, we're going to get back together here and try to solve what we're convinced of here and ourselves, if we want to be honest with ourselves, to the voters, to the citizens of this country, that we can't really do it all this way and that we want to solve it. We'll hear again that the secretary wasn't great, we'll talk about the socialist economy again, his performance, we'll talk about wartime again and what he says... The world will fail for good reasons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're all going to find the reasons very well, the arguments for our opinions, and things are actually this way and we're not going to change. That is, we will listen here as a whole, this will be almost as the bauk of heavy words, large gestures, special rhetoric circles Croatia. And we're just going to compete on how much more selective we can be in our approach. This ideological deafness or methodistic blindness, however you like, is characteristic because we are all, in fact, out of these some of our party interests, particular interests actually trying to figure out the whole, the truth, which is very difficult or, in fact, it's impossible and it should be given up. You wouldn't want me to belong to those people, those politicians who will agree to relativization. I remember in the '70s, then someone said we were all responsible. I also have to admit, I don't feel responsible for what's been going on all these years. And it doesn't mean that someone from my party also bled their hands in privatisation, as they say, and participated in that which is why I had to be responsible. But just what I said yesterday, it seems to me, despite the minister being here and saying that we shouldn't close this story, this book on privatisation, so it's more or less as we consider very wise to say it because it's what the public expects of us. But I'm afraid it's actually some other mechanism and it's not really going to happen. Because all of this is nothing else, it's a prolongation to a bad infinity that's actually absolutely not going to solve anything. I was here yesterday, speaking of a second, on a similar subject, and I suggested that Putin's concept and he's not at all as harmless as it might seem at first sight. He actually says, since October 1st, a line has been drawn, but it has been required of all the Russian tycoons to return the money, to put themselves in the position of the Russian economy, and thus to participate and try to correct all the injustices that have been done to their citizens. We can do the same. I don't think we should question the institutions of this system, because if we do, then that's not good. We all set up, unfortunately not just professional management, not just professional justice, not just professional administration, but we have this need to change and put our people on. And in that we participate more or less all of us with more or less passion and passion, and it has to be really recognized once if we think we're going to make some moves. This initial accumulation of capital and power always begins. Unfortunately, we only had a Krleža who actually wrote about a fictional reality. It all started in one forest when it was there, at the end of the 18th century when a Glembay killed someone. Well then, since that murder, actually later, Ignac Glembay becomes a famous and respected banker. I'm not saying it's a model, but it's, it's actually those things that nature doesn't do jumps, so neither does this, all of what we had, and then what the President of Parliament said, so I'm going to, I'm going to respect it so I'm not going to talk about some names. So we were making up some of our drivers, some of our administrative references or some other, again, so that we wouldn't leave someone out, who were actually our players, the elements of something that wasn't really supposed to happen. But now that it has happened then we need to see if there are alternatives in privatisation, what kind of privatisation, and if, I say, it is possible to do this unprivatisation that will just make sure that the largest number of citizens in it participates. And that in some way it benefits from this great wealth, and it's about 24 billion marks, or now it would be 12 billion euros that have actually gone untraceable. Now, that would be the club's position, if we didn't actually meet here in a few years again, and it's clear again that with the conclusions at the declarative level, we can't create and change our reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43969	Thank you very much. I think that was a barutant thing he cut. In Krleža, it was a barutan resident who later became a prominent industrialist. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43970	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So here is, after two days of discussion, the basis of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's report, DAB's report, the State Attorney's Office, the Croatian National Bank and the State Audit Office, which found that in a thousand 556 audited capital companies, basic capital was reduced by 4 billion marks. That 345 companies went bankrupt, that 996 capital companies did not achieve development goals, that 386 thousand workers were out of work, that in all 4,82% of privatisation companies were implemented in accordance with the law, and 95.18% contrary to the regulations of the Croatian Peasants' Club, it is apparent that they were following. The process of conversion and privatisation is the political project of the 90th and then the leading parties of the Croatian Democratic Union. Unlawful conduct, legal disorder, malpractice of conduct, clientalism, ineffectiveness of prosecution and damage have been demonstrated through the findings of the audit through these indications. It has been demonstrated that, in part, it is possible to partially resolve the damages caused by the lawsuits, the return of the property illegally acquired, and the cancellation of the contract charges. It has been demonstrated that the Croatian Privatisation Fund ignores Parliament's conclusions and is only being placed under pressure from state audits and opinions of the state's attorney's office on what the reports tell us. It has been demonstrated that the Croatian Privatisation Fund is largely guilty of unlawful treatment in the privatisation and conversion process. It has been shown that the names of companies and individuals who were the most prominent clients of the process of conversion and privatisation are still hidden. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives Club stresses that the State Audit Office reports are correct, clear enough and accepted in this House. D.A.'s reading of the State's Attorney's Office definitely removed the dust from the overall process of conversion and privatisation. DESCRIPTION tries again to question the established truth on the findings of the State Audit Office. If there is a political will to approach the compensation process both states and citizens on the basis of the established truth. If the penalties of those who did not hide behind the deadlines were outdated, then we would accept the conclusions proposed by the Croatian Peasant Party Club to this House so that they would not only remain at the level of declarationability and politics. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Croatia and this Assembly are on the move to prove credibility. After the vote on the conclusions, it will be clear who is and who is not to punish those who moved state capital into private pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43971	Thank you. HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43972	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected gentlemen from the Croatian Government from the State Audit Office and from the Croatian National Bank. This debate today is based on the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, and on the other hand on the basis of a series of documents delivered to the Croatian Parliament. However, we have not received any guarantee from the Government in the current debate that we will receive on the benches no new Privatisation Act, no new Public Private Partnership Act, nor have we received any guarantee from the Government that legal sanctions will be made in an appropriate way, illegally acquired assets. We have, in that sense, made a series of conclusions that I now wish to introduce you to in these five minutes. We therefore want to commit the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the launch of the procedure for the annulment of each individual case of conversion and privatisation that has been carried out in an illegal manner. We wish equally to oblige the Government to initiate the process of confiscation of property illegally acquired during privatisation to return to the owners of which it has been illegally seized. It may seem excessive to someone, but if we don't, then this whole debate today and all the work of the state audit doesn't make any sense. We'll just say good friend you stole, we recorded it, keep enjoying what you took without the law. So if we don't do this, if we don't initiate the procedures for the annulment of illegal privatisation contracts, if we don't initiate the confiscation proceedings that were illegally acquired during the privatisation, then the whole privatisation review is pointless. We also oblige the government to finally propose to the Parliament a new Privatisation Act within 30 days, and the new Public Private Property Act precisely because it is trying to privatise privatisation through a public private partnership. A public private partnership is not privatising what it means to enter private management and private capital into a public one, so any state-owned or local company that remains publicly owned afterwards. In privatisation, the company is handed over in private ownership, that it is further guided by the private interests of the new private owner and that is a huge difference. However, a syntagma about privatisation, about a public private partnership, I repeat it as if you said you were resuscitating someone through the killing. We also ask that there be public suspicions of numerous irregularities and the legality of the procedures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the privatisation fund to commit the State Audit Office, to revise the privatisation of the organisation unit Transport Promal tlm in Sibenik, but also to review the privatisation of Liburni Riviera in Opatija and to report to the Parliament within 90 days. Let's see what interests they had in making exactly the kind of decisions that were behind all this together. If it was illegal then of course it should be annulled. If there was no developmental business logic behind this, then we have to ask ourselves who cared to pass any business logic exactly that way. We want to briefly start acting responsibly in accordance with the laws of the Croatian State and to keep those who break the laws without what they illegally acquired. One more thing, gentlemen of the Croatian government. That's what's been bothering us at the club for years and that's who actually is and whether anyone controls the implementation of the privatisation contract, because to control then that guy in Primosten who buys it would not have to do what he does, nor would he do the same thing in Jelsa and not just him, but also a number of others. If it had been controlled then there would certainly not have been a national audit today either, and we wouldn't have had that much work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43973	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, honourable representative Nikola Vuljanić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43974	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the government. Once again, we spent two days discussing how we would agree that we couldn't make a deal, or we agreed to make a deal, and we mostly didn't agree on anything. All we've been saying in these two days, everyone on the left and right is something that the Croatian Union Association says, and the sparrows on the branches know, we all know that data. Let's not do this, we all know what happened. The data we learned from the report knew at least on April 14th this year when the Parliament made famous conclusions that it would take measures, probably with a finger like this. That they will find ways to deprive the Republic of Croatia and commit within 90 days to draft a new Privatisation Act, which should be defined among other things by the ESOP model. These conclusions were voted in this House as they were probably voted before that, as the following conclusions will be voted. However, we never talked about these conclusions today and yesterday as if they were gone, as if nothing had happened. I must say, the rest of the conclusions were proposed and voted by all clubs except the HNS Club and the HSP. We knew what would happen to the conclusions, we knew what the intention was, so we had a crazy time to participate in that sharada. Why the "great parties" club's obligations are silent and they signed the proposal of these conclusions and made a proposal for these conclusions, but apparently the decision was that these two days would be carried out by the transfer of blame from left to right and that some conclusions would then be reached in the end. Gentlemen, you have no right to suggest new conclusions until we have the ones we voted on, until we've done absolutely nothing about them. Accordingly, the PGS Club will not vote for any new conclusions until we reach these conclusions. What we can't believe from this whole discussion is that there's a will to do something both in advance and backwards. In fact, the flow of time doesn't make a bad thing good. If we shut up about the bad thing today and push it under the carpet, that skeleton will one day jump out of the closet and jump right behind our neck again. So far back. In advance, the elemental decency requires that they look at each other and confess their own mistakes and then fix something. If there is no new Law on Privatisation does not have what we can today only believe that there will be a continuation of privatisation, there is more in Croatia, and so far some other assembly of Parliament will discuss what happened in that term there between 2003 and 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43975	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43976	Well, since I'm personally hit here, I have to say that it's an incorrect assumption that everyone knows everything about privatisation. I don't know, for instance, even though I've been doing a lot of privatizing to Coning. I have no idea if it's true that Coning offered... Nine million before privatisation, so it was returned after privatisation and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be convenient to clear up a lot of things because we know what was going on around us but certainly not a little further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43977	Thank you. And the SDP Club is a respected representative of Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43978	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The SDP club sent four conclusions to the president of the Croatian Parliament and suggests that this Assembly adopt them. First of all, we proposed not to accept the Croatian Privatisation Fund’s indication on the State Audit Office Report on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation because it is incomplete and does not meet those of our same requirements in April 2005. Then, secondly, we propose that the Government of the Republic of Croatia be obliged to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament within 30 days on the responsibility of the members of the Government in favour of the sale of shares of the Liburia Riviera hotels d.d. Opatija Domholdingu d.d. Namely, no government has so far withdrawn its decisions like this last affair in this series of handovers to the Libyan Liburia funds to Count Eltz and Ostoja. It stands out not only because of the dizzy amount mentioned in it but also because of the first shift of the president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund because of some privatisation affair. In our opinion, this is just one way, perhaps a naive way of turning the blame of the entire government to one man who, for sure, is very likely that alone without the top of the government could not make such a decision. The Liburni affair is certain to have put the whole privatisation story on the agenda again seriously. Then we propose to oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish within 90 days a fee for the use and sale of assets not entered into the company's core capital and to initiate the payment procedure for the use or sale of assets in favour of the state budget. From the state audit findings, land is not included in the area of 2.8 million square meters and construction facilities within an area of 80,000 square meters. They were used without any legal basis and some unlawfully or against the Penal Code were sold, and compensation is proposed regardless of criminal persecution. Then we propose that the Government of the Republic of Croatia be obliged to submit proposals to the Croatian Parliament within 60 days, which would single-tax the property of legal and natural persons acquired in the process of conversion and privatisation. That bill already exists here. Unfortunately, in his previous session, the Parliament only had a previous debate, and there was not so much political will. But here, we're referring to the government's proposal already, so it can be freely used by this SDP proposal. And lastly, to commit the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend and supplement the Penal Code and to specify the economic crime that was also done during the coalition government, we have such a proposal of law and if it does not, because it considers that there already are conclusions, let it comply with those conclusions which already exist and, if not, listen to the State's Attorney General's Office which, by law, is required and has the right to benefit from these rights and powers and the Government has also accepted the report on the work of state lawyers on criminal matters in connection with conversion and privatisation, which they are just drawing attention to the need to change the economic incrimination that they say are of age and that they do not correspond to emerging economic situations. That they come across a whole series of legal misunderstandings. And therefore, precisely on the necessity of such a legal arrangement of economic crime with the necessary extension of limitation because all that we're giving the review to do again is pointless. And if you show that you have a real intention and we still believe that that's how it is, then we all have to make it impossible for those whose first HDZ power has allowed them to enjoy their prey uninterruptedly. So we have the possibility that now all together regardless of what was saved, what was given to save Croatian citizens and all together with Croatian citizens would be satisfied with what kind of justice is being achieved. And I think there's a lot more that can be solved in a satisfactory way but only by extending the limitation deadlines so that there's time to do what hasn't fallen into obsolescence yet, but also by being serious and with great responsibility to move forward with the privatisation process and so that these cases don't happen. So, originally, what is very important in these new incriminations that are already formed, so the government doesn't have to work very hard to protect the believers. It's something that doesn't exist with us yet. And whoever does not protect the believers does not protect the property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43979	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43980	It is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who said, I quote: "The Liburnia case is a naive way of transferring the government's responsibility to other people.". On the contrary! ... On the contrary, all government decisions in this procedure, as you say, the case of Liberia, refer to the government's responsibility, to the government's responsibility and to making decisions that are best, we have had the opportunity to hear today and these days from the Deputy Prime Minister, in which direction the government makes decisions and which is therefore making to resolve the perceived problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43981	Thank you. Now it's time to conclude. I have the impression that the Deputy Prime Minister and the heads of these institutions who filed special reports have no intention of further explaining or reporting for some explanations. Thank you very much, gentlemen and Vice President of the Government and the leaders of all these institutions who have submitted reports. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on 14 April the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the implementation of the audit, conversion and privatisation for the period from December 2003 to September 2004 the report on the revisions of the conversion and privatisation made by a whole series of conclusions, among them obliged certain state institutions to deliver their reports. And final conclusion number 8 that, according to which the Croatian Parliament will consider, after the deadlines set out in the previous points, this means after the delivery of all these reports, all reports submitted, this is the one which we have considered also on the basis of the debate that we have conducted to establish the necessary measures within 90 days in order to remove irregularities, illegality and possible compensation from the Republic of Croatia for damages resulting from the conversion and privatisation, including the creation of a new privatisation law which should be defined among other things by the EZOP model. We got the reports. We had a discussion about them. Clubs delivered, three clubs submitted their proposals for conclusions, the SDP Club, the HSS and the HSP. And now we are in one situation where we need to find one technology, one methodology in which the Croatian Parliament will, after considering all these reports, determine the necessary measures to remove the precise irregularities. We already have three proposals for conclusions, and that's one specific technology. Because we cannot put these reports to the vote now, these proposals of the separate conclusions of individual clubs, but we will have to try to find one with these conclusions, with this proposal for the conclusions of these three clubs, to find one model, one way to get technologically to a consensus that will mean setting up a parliament to take the necessary measures. So I leave the deadline open and we will in the coming days, I will call on the presidents of the clubs to try to reach common solutions. I also ask the club presidents who have not submitted their proposals to submit that we have one basis for working together. So much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43982	We are going to vote on the reports of the Croatian Privatisation Fund on the State Audit Office Report on the revision of conversion and privatisation carried out. Report on the work of the State Attorney's Office on criminal cases in connection with the conversion and privatisation, Report of the Croatian National Bank in the process of establishment, i.e. transformed banks into limited liability companies or companies. Report by the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, in connection with the State Audit Office Report on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation carried out. The conclusions were proposed by HDZ, SDP, HSS, HSP, HSU, and we will vote. Please, dear representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43983	Your Honor, Mr. President. Because they're in the conclusions of the HDZ Club that we've now seen essentially put those things that we've been looking for, we're only asking for a 10-minute break to agree to vote on this. How about 10 minutes on the Rules of Procedure, yeah? Let's just get it straight.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43984	I have to take 10 minutes off because it's a minimum break. Ten minutes. 15:15 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43985	I'd like a representative of the HSP Club to make an observation after the club's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43986	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the HSP club that considered these conclusions. You all know the Croatian public position of the club HSP and the Croatian party rights related to conversion and privatisation, it has always been a clear point of view for us that something that has been illegally acquired, which is never guaranteed can become legal, and therefore we have given conclusions during the debate, we have also given in the procedure of the Law on Completion of the Law on Conversion and Privatisation and we have asked for the established factual state of application of the sanctions and this conclusion is very important for the future of the Croatian state, for all those who have been disproved, for all those who have been stolen in the conversion and privatisation, and now we are looking for decisive implementation from the Government and the State Attorney's office and all relevant bodies of these conclusions, because in this way we will restore trust and dignity in us as a legislative authority that we do not rest and that we cannot deal with the situation how and in which it is all implemented. Therefore, we welcome and we are pleased that the HDZ Club has put our conclusions in its conclusions and our conclusions were far away, first they were in the form of amendments to the applicable law, submitted as well as the esteemed President Shex knows, and then we gave the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, but... , proves that all of this could have been done for years and during the former government and for these authorities, so both the government and the State's attorneys had instruments at their disposal and it's good, better ever than never. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we will support these conclusions and withdraw ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43987	Please, let's get on with it. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion proposed by the HDZ Representatives Club. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? The conclusions were adopted with 85 votes for, 12 abstentions and 21 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43988	I am voting on the conclusions proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? In 30, 10 abstentions, 78 against. They didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43989	I am voting on the conclusions proposed by the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 25 for, 13 abstentions, 77 against. They didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-28-0.u43990	And I am voting on the conclusions proposed by the Club of Representatives of HSU. Please engage. We can vote. The result? 12 for, 26 abstentions, 74 against. They didn't get the necessary majority.
