ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30252	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, and the members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session also begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - The performance of the Anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland" – both ladies and gentlemen MPs invite you to pay tribute in a minute of silence to the fallen Croatian defenders and all civilian victims of the war. - A minute of silence – eternal thanks and gratitude. You received the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament by mail. Any objections to the record? Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, on behalf of the HSS Club, have observations on how to keep the minutes, namely the one who was not present at the Assembly session in this way simply cannot understand what was happening at the session itself. As an example, I will give you page 38 where the proposal to set up an investigative committee under point 18 has been established and it is said that no vote has been held at the 11th session. It is not said for which it is not, whether there were no MPs in the House, whether it is so decided, who has proposed and why such a decision has been made. We have the same example on several other pages of the record, so I wouldn't elaborate it any further. Here at point 30, when you are also talking about the commission, you, as president of the Parliament, find that you have left the opposition party assembly other than HSP representatives, which is not true because part of HSP's representatives was here and not a complete HSP club. For unknown reasons, there is something extra in the record, which is the conclusion of Vice-President Luka Bebić, who informs lawmakers of their obligations in connection with the Rules of Procedure to attend Parliament meetings. And it's even marked with bold letters. And what's most important, and what's not in the record, and there should be an injury in the electronic voting mode where we've established, and we all know that there's been an unauthorized vote with a key. We believe in the HSS Club that the minutes should be different, precise, so that they know what happened at the session of the Assembly, and this precedent in the vote on key abuse should be specifically noted. So we suggest that this is exactly how the minutes change and the future leads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30254	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pacek. There is a phonogram about the work of the session first where everything that happens is visible in the assembly. Secondly, the business provisions on keeping the minutes say, the minutes contain basic data on the work of the session, on participation in the debate and on decisions taken, the result of the vote on a particular topic is entered in the minutes. Therefore, on the basis of the phonograms, the professional service of the Croatian Parliament Secretariat shall draw up a record in which it shall provide basic information on the work of the session, its participation in the debate, and the decisions and results of the vote. These basic data are also entered in the minutes from this session on participation in the debate and on decisions taken, and on the reasons why some decisions have been made or have not been made, you can see that the Rules of Procedure on the content of the minutes do not give rise to the obligation of the Secretary of Parliament’s professional service to make those grounds of habitation which you have mentioned. But please continue, according to Article 246. Each representative, you have right to use this right, shall have the right to comment at the beginning of the session on the minutes of the previous session. On the basis of the observations made to the minutes, it shall be decided at a session without discussion. If the objection is accepted, appropriate amendments will be made to the minutes. I would not, in particular, be opening a debate about this right now because there is no debate, and I accept your proposals and remarks to include in the minutes of the last session a more detailed course of the session and the results of the vote and the reasons for the vote. I suggest we adopt the minutes with these proposals and remarks. Is there any objection to this motion for the minutes adopted? Comrade Pacek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30255	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I didn't want to start by saying that the Rules of Procedure was hurt. However, you yourself said that the business provisions defined that the minutes should contain basic data on how the session was conducted. I just realized that there's no such basics. So I'd like to ask you to formulate something more precisely how we're going to correct this record and how we're going to lead it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30256	I accept your remarks and they become an integral part of the proposed minutes. Is there any objections to the record now? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 11th session in the text as you have received it with the accepted remarks of Agent Pacek. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I included six new points in the final draft agenda: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Cooperation Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia in the framework of the approximation and accession of the European Union, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading of the Proposal for a Law No. 237. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement on Cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria in the framework of the approximation and accession of the European Union, with the Final Proposal for a Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, Proposal for a Law No. 236. Third, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Faculty Protocol with the Convention against Torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposal for Law No. 240. Fourthly, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Recognition of the properties of forest trees and shrubs, with the Final Proposal for Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposed Law No. 238. Fifth, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forest Seeds and Fruits, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposed Law No. 239. And the sixth, an indication of the directorship of the Croatian Radio-Television on the identified failures and irregularities identified in the Report of Commercial Audit, the audit of the financial reports for 2003 and the measures implemented to remove them. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda referred to in points 8 to 15, under points 38 and 39 and in points 50 and 51, shall specify the laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed. These are, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. No. 235. Second, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on General Conditions for Development Cooperation, P.Z. No. 232. Third, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the avoidance of Double Taxation of Income Taxes and Assets, P.Z. No. 231. Fourthly, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation, P.Z. No. 230. Fifthly, the Proposal for a Law confirming the cooperation agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the approximation and accession of the European Union, P.Z. No. 237. Sixthly, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement on Cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria in the framework of the approximation and accession of the European Union, P.Z. No. 236. Seven, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Faculty Protocol with the Convention against Torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 240. Eighth, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Memorandums of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States of America acting on behalf of the Government of the United States regarding the use of airspace, airport polygons and training facilities by the US Armed Forces in Europe, P.Z. No. 193. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail, P.Z. No. 233. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the recognition of the properties of forest trees and shrubs, P.Z. No. 238. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forest Seeds and Wood Seedlings, P.Z. No. 239. Proposal for a Courier Services Act, P.Z. No. 204. I Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Department, Proposers Valter Drandić and Josip Vresk, P.Z. No. 195. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30257	Dear Mr President, the IDS Representatives' Club opposes the urgent procedure of the item under regular number 15, which is this proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding Act in agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States of America, acting on behalf of the United States Government regarding the use of airspace, airport polygons and training facilities by the US Armed Forces. It is obvious that the memorandum is designed to turn the whole of Croatia into a large free military polygon that will be given "to the service of the United States". I don't know how promising that is, but it certainly isn't. But it is a delicate political issue, and therefore the IDS Club is demanding that a higher political competence be removed from an urgent process of such a politically delicate topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30258	Thank you very much. I ask the Prime Minister to show himself on this proposal by Agent Cain. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30259	Mr. President, the government accepts Agent Cain's proposal, we accept that it is going into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30260	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30261	So I, too, on behalf of the HSP Club, had an objection to an emergency procedure to confirm the memos for similar reasons, with it having to be determined for this, which international entity on the other hand. Whether it's the command or the government of the United States or who it is, because it can't be a command, it's a little suspicious there. And secondly, I think we are grateful to the Prime Minister that during this period, we can prepare all those agreements that are envisaged here for the application of this memo, so that we would then have a complete picture to get something that will be much more favourable than it was with those... and because of these... we are brought into this situation. And we know for ourselves that it was the subject of pre-election bickering and campaigning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30262	Thank you very much. Since the Prime Minister has accepted on behalf of the government the proposals of the representatives' clubs... (interruption on tape)... the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. This law goes according to regular procedure. Since there are no further objections to the application of the emergency procedure of the adoption of other proposed laws, we should vote in favour of the application of the requested procedure to the proposed laws other than this exception. Please engage. Please, the quorum we're establishing by electronic means! Representatives who are not identified are considered not to be in the assembly! 98 MPs and a representative are present. So we have a valid quorum. Please, who is in favour of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption? Please engage! Please vote. It only votes yes and against. I'm asking for a result. 109 votes for and 1 abstention. One, there are no abstentions, so don't vote with restraint. I find that with 101 votes for the agenda by emergency procedure, the final draft of the law was included, 109, thank you nicely, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on General Conditions for Development Cooperation? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that with 110 votes for and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Third. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property taxes? Please, let's get on with it. We vote. I find that with 110 votes and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Fourth. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that with 104 votes for and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Fifth. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Cooperation Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia in the context of the approximation and accession of the European Union? Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. 108 votes for, and with that number of votes and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Sixth. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Cooperation Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria in the framework of the approximation and accession of the European Union? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. With 109 votes for and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Seven. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Faculty Protocol with the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that with 107 votes for and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Nine. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the postal law? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that with 100 votes for and 8 against the inclusion of this bill in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Recognition of the properties of the forest trees and shrubs. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I am establishing 106 votes for and 1 against and this proposal for a law included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Finally, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forest Seed and Forest Seedlings. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that with 105 votes for and 4 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Courier Service Act. It is proposed by the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that with 98 votes for and 10 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Department? Proposer of MP Walter Drandic, Josip Vresk? Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that with 93 votes in favour, 11 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have attached with the call for a session, and this agenda, in accordance with Article 203, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. In accordance with Article 203, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Objection can now be made only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Under point 59, an indication of the directorship of the Croatian Broadcasting Directorate has been included on the identified failures and irregularities identified in the commercial audit report on the financial reports carried out for 2003 and the measures implemented to eliminate them. This evidence was provided by the HRT Directorate in accordance with the conclusion of this House. Any of the MPs object to including this point in the agenda? There isn't. The motion for a decision to establish an investigative committee on matters relating to public morality regarding the acquisition of property of state officials Ivo Sanader and Miomir Zuzula through the activities of companies owned by officials and related persons or other grounds which, in accordance with the Law on the Research Committees and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, has been proposed by one-tenth of the representatives or 16 representatives of the Croatian Parliament, and therefore I am in accordance with the Law on the Investigation Committees and the Rules of Procedure and included in the draft agenda for this sitting. With regard to the proposal for this Decision, we have a situation where the first 16th signature was withdrawn by a respected representative of Sima Lucin, so by his letter of 7 December, the promoter, the Club of HNS and PGS submitted a proposal signed by... Honored representative Zlatko Kramarić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Zlatko Kramaric delivered to me today a letter withdrawing his signature from this proposal for a decision to set up an investigative commission. In view of Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The law on investigating committees must be supported by one-tenth of the MPs, and with this signature withdrawn by the respected representative Zlatko Kramarić no longer has any legal or business conditions for the existence of this proposal at all, and this proposal for a decision is thus put out, so I am left with the only one left to take it off the agenda proposal. We have, a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar and a respected representative of Vice-President Vesna Pusic. Who wants, uh, a Pusic pardon. Who does? Mr. Lesar. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the basis of what you have now stated, it is not clear to me at first, so this is my first information on the withdrawal of the signature but in formal law and however I did not find any provision in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament or on the Law establishing the investigative committees of the institute or the possibility of withdrawing the signature. The signature that is given simply if we study both the Rules of Procedure and the Law cannot be withdrawn because it is given, and we are all adult, responsible and under oath. I therefore believe that there remain conditions for this proposal to be left on the agenda for the more the proposer has not been aware of these facts. Secondly, if you insist on your position or interpretation, I believe that it is a matter of which the constitution should also be manifested, the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure, and only then can the final decision be made. This will make us certain both time-out and time so perhaps the 17th or the 16th signature we find among some of the deceased. I therefore insist that this is the case for the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure, and only when their opinion is given to make a final decision on the agenda point that you have problems with.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30264	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on investigative committees, I quote, states: "The establishment of an investigative commission may be proposed by the working body of the House of Parliament or at least 1/10 of the total number of representatives of the House of Parliament." The signature was now withdrawn by MP Zlatko Kramaric, deposed. Since you hold that the withdrawal of the signature is not regulated and that you are proposing that this be made before the decision of the Assembly, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System is taken, and I will accept this proposal for an amendment to the agenda after the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system is convened. Mr. President, please call that session during the day. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives except for this exception, which will be subsequently decided on by the agenda, have been established. Please don't let me read it all together to find out that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda. The council agree with that? Yeah. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by asking questions to the government or to an individual member of the government. I will not read the business provisions relating to "The current morning", "The current morning" but first we will move on to the agenda by asking parliamentary questions and moving on to that agenda, asking parliamentary questions. Dear Representative Frano Matušić on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30265	Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I will request a 15-minute break so that the Croatian Democratic Community prepares a decision to set up an investigative committee to investigate all the circumstances and actions of HNS President Vesna Pusic, President of Libra Mr. Joza Radoš, representative Ferenček and representative of Dragutin Lesar. In order to be a little more specific in the explanation, I'd like to say the following. After the launch of an initiative for an investigative commission that would deal with the activities of Radiir Cacic, while he was the minister, a kind of attack on the prime minister tried to distract the public from the HNS affairs such as the case of Cacic and the latest Ferenčak who are shaking the Croatian public. There is a great interest in the public in certain ways that the issues cited by the presidents of the HNS and Librero parties to defend Cacic and Ferenček in a way that triggers a new investigative commission, and in this sense, the commission that would be passed by the Croatian Democratic Community would investigate whether these gentlemen are connected to the malversions of Cacic and Ferenček and investigate their property situation at the moment until they become state officials today. So in this sense, here is the Croatian Democratic Community requesting a 15-minute break to take this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30266	I'm fixing a break, first of all, a respected representative of the Ivica Racan Club of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30267	Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club. Because I appreciate that this political conflict with the requests for investigative committees is not going to help anyone. I'm looking for a 15-minute break for the club's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30268	Thank you, dear representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30269	On behalf of the Club and I also ask for a 15-minute break so that we can agree on these requests that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30270	Okay. We've actually moved on to the agenda after the established agenda to the current morning. So it's a fact that the transition is already a business basis for granting a break. Dear Representative Damir Cain, Klub IDSa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30271	There's nothing left for me but to trace this statement by Mr. Racan to tell the gentlemen to be serious. Or let's get serious. Because what seems to be nothing leads except the complete unbelief of Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30272	Thank you. I'm setting a 15-minute break. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. The apartment was approved at the request of 4 clubs, HDZ, SDP, HNS, IDS. I'm asking you in order. Representative of the HDZ Club, Honored Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go. You have 5 minutes to explain the position of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30274	Thank you, Mr. President. The Croatian Democratic Community club remains in the decision that it is necessary to establish an investigative commission that would deal with activities, activities, therefore, Mrs Vesna Pusic, Mr Jose Rados, Mr Srecko Ferenček and Mr Dragutin Lesar. As I have already stated before this break, there is the interest of the Croatian public to really establish the reasons why it is tried to turn away, to be the attention from the Cacic and Ferenčak affair which have indeed shaken in the last period of Croatia and to try to establish a new Research Commission that would be involved with our prime minister. In fact, that way, here, focus your attention on something else, and these cases get thrown off the side. In that sense, we really want to establish the true truth, especially with the following fact in mind. This commission should deal with one issue that is really very important for all of us, which is how one and the same person, in this case Srecko Ferenčak, can, after resigning from the Zagreb City Headship, remain a representative in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the question is also raised before the Croatian public because the Croatian public is simply looking for an answer as to how it is possible for one and the same person to resign because of the conflict of interest in the City Headship while at the same time being in the Croatian Parliament. This Commission of Investigation should clearly respond to what these criteria are and how this is possible. So we remain on the basis of a decision that we will formulate and refer to the procedure in the follow-up of this session, and we really consider this Commission of Investigation to be the necessary basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30275	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, SDP Club President Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30276	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I didn't think I'd have to say anything about this, but I do. On behalf of the SDP Club, I express my dissatisfaction with this kind of relationship in the Croatian Parliament. We don't judge the good character of conflict through the investigative committees. On the one hand, they go to each other's dirt, on the other hand we derogate the institution of the investigative commissions. Of course, I'm not saying this because I think there's something to hide and there's someone to defend. That kind of insinuation on behalf of the SDP, given our position, is vigorously rejected. It's precisely because this behavior in the Parliament and the general government officials has given us great credit for the state officials, for the politicians. I don't see any other way out of here but to make a commitment to each of us to account for the origin of our property. It's the only way, it's the only way to show that we're not all equal, that not all politicians are thieves and that we avoid unproductive conflict through investigative committees. And on behalf of the SDP Club, I am announcing a legislative obligation that we will submit here in the Assembly within two days, which all state officials undertake to account for the acquisition of their property. And I think that's the only way we can get out of destroying our own dignity and the dignity of the highest state institutions. And I suggest that there be at least a political consensus between us. Let's keep our cheeks a little bit, and I'd say, let's help both this Parliament and the government and the other institutions get the reputation they deserve, and not those among them who don't deserve it. That's why I think this SDP proposal is understandable and I'm asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30277	Thank you very much. HNS representative club, club president, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30278	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is true that for the first time in this House, it happened with a proposal to set up an investigative committee that was directed against a person or person. This was the moment the HDZ Club proposed an investigative commission to deal with colleagues Tomcic and Cacic. It is true that the purpose of the investigation committees is to establish possible irregularities within institutions, not persons. It is true that the investigative committees are designed as an instrument of opposition, not by the authorities, because the government has all the mechanisms of control, control, investigation, trial and prosecution. However, the problem did not begin when these commissions appeared, in order, to a chronological event rather than the problem of war or alleged war with commissions began only when we proposed one of the commissions that needed to carry out the work of insight into the acquisition and state of property. I remind you that this House has set up an investigative committee that is working, and it is about Victor Lentz. That we once had a debate, but we never voted, and it's not on the new agenda because the quorum is down. on 12 November, the commission was proposed to the 3rd mobile phone operator and to see the reasons for the cancellation of the tender. It's only now that it's on the agenda. So on November 24th, the HDZ proposal on the Investigation Commission for counterparts Tomcic and Cacic comes and no one talks about the alleged war on the commissions. On November 25th, we make our proposal, and then it was war, and then all of a sudden, we're asked to get serious, and then this should stop. I don't know why only then, and I don't understand how it is that five days later, on November 30, another investigation committee was re-signed to the PoA and the affair that was related to it. If there is no other way, if the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts has not worked and if the rulings do not trust their own or do not control their investigative bodies, the judicial and other bodies, but have decided to clear things through the investigation committees, then we too have the right to request that all facts be determined, all things be stopped after 14 years of the call of individual colleagues, fellow parliamentary representatives, and that these same cases never stand down, not surrender or require the competent authorities to establish it. The Croatian People's Party club will support the HDZ proposal to set up a commission proposed by them. We also demand that ours be on the agenda, and there is only one interest and purpose. Clear up, get to the truth, punish the guilty, and those who are not guilty of letting them do their job normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30279	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30280	Dear Mr. President,... and I said before, let's really get serious because what we're doing doesn't lead to anything but the complete unbelief of Croatian politics. We've got the state's attorney's office, we've got the courts, so let them do some of their work. I believe that politicians are not tasked with digging through the inside of their political component, but rather with leaving the job to the competent authorities or institutions. In some ways, it may even be considered a pressure on the judiciary to determine their decisions. And I think what we're doing simply opens up a disaster. On the one hand, we are agreeing on some consensus around the EU, and on the other hand, we are tearing down any consensus. I also hold that what we do with these committees does not lead to fact-finding, but rather to clouding facts. It is clear and I will paraphrasise Mr. Racan here, we are all here to do everything, to make everything available to the public, to make everything transparent, to prevent any conflict of interest, to prevent any abuse of position, but by doing what we are doing and how we are sending a message to the public that the spectrum policy is criminals themselves, and that is simply not true. Burying on the other side of someone is very easy, it's always done with half-truths, half-information, false grades, but rehabilitating after that an individual who's so wrapped up it's extremely difficult. And that is why I believe that this work of the committees has simply been missed. The one who thinks he's gonna stop at this and he's naive. Whoever thinks that this process in this House is going to be controlled and he's naive. One who thinks it won't ultimately harm all of us, not those who are a couple of million heavy marks, or I don't know what dollars, but everyone else, and that one is naive. One who thinks, let's say the Lenac Committee used Lenca, and these gentlemen are naive. But when we played this circuit, the people would say, "Let's dance." I haven't seen these committees, so I don't intend to plead, but I do know that they'll all lose that she won't investigate anything except that we'll define, pollute, humiliate, and I know that we won't rehabilitate them afterwards. It's best to stop clearly, I don't know which way, what's in the procedure is in the procedure, but moving on it's just a disaster. Let us lay down property cards, establish these committees of conflict of interest, and let each one do his job in the way that the laws determine it. It is certain that we have all contributed to the collapse of political dignity, but I fear we can end it with such committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30281	Thank you very much. Given the very reasoned, serious and constructive proposals tabled by club presidents, from the president of the SDP Club Mr. Ivica Racan, Mr. Kajin, Mr. Frana Matušić, Mr. Lesar, the proposals and initiatives for the discussion concerning the relations of the Croatian Parliament and the Government on all these political issues, please the Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader to state the position of both his and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First, I am obliged to give my opinion of a proposed committee related to me. I don't mind investigating my entire work, everything I've done in these 13, 14 years in Croatian politics. But I'm going to say right now, that there was something, so it wouldn't have waited 13, 14 years if it had been something wicked. Everything I've done is completely behind it. It is also known that I lived abroad, I was also known to be co-owner of companies abroad, and it is also known that I bought an apartment in Split and Zagreb with my money and not with any living rights and then shopping, etc. And that's exactly why I don't mind, even if there's more to be explored. But also about all of us in Croatian politics because I agree with Mr. Racan. We need to confirm the credibility of Croatian politics. Otherwise, we'll go deeper into the wetlands, dig in and lose complete credibility. Therefore, all the things that serve complete clearing but everyone, especially those who are trying to attack the prime minister to cover up some of their affairs, I want to say very clearly that I am for the full and clear truth and clearing up the higher level of the Croatian public higher than all of us, higher than the credibility of Croatian politics. We can't, we can't go any further if there's a suspicion and the liga is dumped practically on complete politics. As far as the government is concerned, the government will support all proposals, including this SDP president who will go in this regard and in this direction to explain and explain to the public the full assets and the public in an insight and manner of acquiring and all the circumstances. I therefore also propose, if the Parliament, that the Government can certainly come up with its proposal, but if the Parliament comes up with its proposal, we are prepared to consider it in the Government. But as far as I'm concerned, I am absolutely ready in front of the Croatian public, in front of the Croatian Assembly the answer or any question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30283	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Let all those who have submitted their initiatives and proposals, which are to be submitted on the basis of the Inter-party Consensus, with a note that we have reached a consensus and that the Committee on Selection, the appointments on the basis of an inter-party consensus, should be proposed. We're going to choose the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest tomorrow after the meeting of the Election and Appointing Committee. I will propose adding the agenda to the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the National Committee as a working body of the Croatian Parliament for the monitoring of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. All parliamentary political parties reached agreement on the need to establish this separate working body of the National Committee, its action and its composition. On the basis of this agreement and the agreement of all parliamentary parties as a proposing, the Bureau of the Parliament has appeared that the decision to set up the National Committee is to be placed on the agenda and in the afternoon after the Prime Minister will submit one preliminary presentation on the process and on the future of the negotiating process and position of Croatia towards the European Union with the Minister of European Integration, as well as the Head of State Permanent Representation and the Chief Negotiator of Mr Vladimir Drebnjak would conduct a joint discussion on 6 proposals submitted by the various parties to the resolution declaration, with the same inter-party agreement as a group of representatives in the composition of Mr Vresk, Mr Mimica, Mr Pupovac, Mr Radoš, Mr Rožić, Mr Jandroković, who will follow the discussion of this joint agreement, which has already expressed a group of representatives of representatives of the European Union and Croatian legislation for the implementation of membership of the EU's legislation. So after the Prime Minister, the main negotiator, a united debate on these six points and after that united debate, would go to the vote after that joint debate on, I assume that we will have a fully agreed and joint declaration and then a decision on the establishment of the National Committee as the working body of the Croatian Parliament to monitor the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. So you would now suggest whether any of the MPs have objected to including this point in the agenda, so on the establishment of the National Committee? If he doesn't. Then thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The amendments to the agenda have been established, continuing with the current morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30287	Mr. President, we strongly oppose this practice. This is the first time, as far as I know, I've been in the House since 92, to draw a conclusion that postpones the vote. Therefore, the team is more in collegiate with what was said in the election campaign by the HDZ candidate who made it clear that she and the government are for leaving "the Society", "Adria". So, we're holding that, we don't even know if it's founded, this is a business-based proposal for a conclusion. We couldn't find anything in the Rules of Procedure that could justify it, so we strongly oppose it. And when I take my word, I have one more question, Mr. President, which is that you can put to the vote, or when are you going to put to the vote on the Investigation Commission on the transcripts, because the debate was held and there are conditions for voting around that point?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30288	In this regard, since you have an objection and a business nature, then we will not vote today, so I will refer this to the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to Mr Bošnjakovic that the Committee discusses this. That the Committee discusses this, and on your second proposal to vote on a final debate on a proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee. Since I still have one piece of information that a judicial procedure is possible until I verify this information, I will postpone the vote on that conclusion. That conclusion, since I have information from the State's Attorney's Office that a court case has been requested. If that information is correct, we will have that information documented on February 2nd, and then we will put it up to the vote. Do you agree? Thank you very much. Then I close this session today, on March 2nd, February 2nd, that would be nice on March 2, February 2nd with points that are according to the agenda. So we're going to confirm the United Nations Convention against Corruption and so on. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would now, in accordance with Article 204(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed supplementing the agenda of the 12th session, to the following points. One, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, with Final Proposal for Law, Emergency Procedure, Proposal for Law No. 246. Second, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposed Law No. 245. We have in the agenda a regular procedure of the draft law, the draft law has been withdrawn by the Government and referred to the urgent procedure of the draft of this law. Third, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 189. Fourth, Final proposal of the Law on Mandatory Relations, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 189. Fifth, Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in Public Dutys, with the Final Proposal for a Law, Proposer: SDP Representatives' Club, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, Proposed Law No. 242. And the sixth, Proposal for a decision to amend the decision to set up the Research Commission for the determination of facts in relation to the State guarantees issued, the creditors of the private company of the Shipyard Viktor Lenac d.d. Now in bankruptcy, the Proposer of the Investigative Commission. This is about the Committee's proposal to extend the deadline by a month and a half. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The proposal complements the agenda includes three laws, which are proposed to be adopted according to an emergency procedure. This is this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of the public duties of the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Should we determine the quorum first? No, I should, no, gentlemen, don't tell me I shouldn't. Please, the HDZ Club's esteemed representative, Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30290	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, pursuant to Rule 238 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We're asking for a vote by raising your hand, because part of the MP doesn't have a key.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30291	That's the catch. Well, then we'll do that change, vote by raising your hand on the completion of the agenda. So let's go for these three laws. If any of the MPs have any, I'd like to ask you first to quorum. Let's count it. 86, he's got a good quorum. Now we're going to vote on a proposal to supplement the agenda. I have a key too, but some don't. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of any of these three proposed laws? There isn't. Yes, but we have to vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? The draft law was unanimously included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? There isn't. I find it unanimous with 86 votes to be included in the agenda and this final draft of the law by emergency procedure. Third, who is involved in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of conflict of interest in the conduct of public duties proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. Who's in? Thank you. Against? There isn't. I also find that this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of any of the other points? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs on the other debated items of the agenda have not yet come to terms, so we will vote next time. With just one more thing to say, in the 18th, since the inauguration of the President of the Republic is over here in the Square, and that special and security measures and parking problems would not be held that day, because we only have a session for the afternoon of 15 hours, and Friday would not have been announced. Comrade Kovačević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30293	On behalf of the HSP Club, I have to say, I don't know why the conditions for the vote for our transcript investigation committee have not been met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30294	The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System has not yet decided whether what started with the investigations in the court proceedings, although it is partial whether this affects the whole of the initiative's proposals and we are patient until the next time. Thank you very much. Continuing Wednesday at half past ten. Representative Gordana Sobol is first in line for human rights. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose, in accordance with Article 204(2), the completion of the agenda with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing and delirious the Central Government, the State Administration with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the P.Z. No. 253, the unification and merger of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act? There isn't. Please quorum because many don't have keys. Many have and many do not. We have 87 agents. Just for this supplement.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30298	It would now propose on the basis of Article 204(2) of the basic Regulation. Rules of Procedure for this 12th session, please also establish the quorum. First, the report of the mandate-immunity committee and second, the proposal for a decision to determine the fee for the work of the members of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest which is not part of the agenda of the representatives. 82 we have, I guess many of them have forgotten the key to having someone. Then, let's identify ourselves with the key, let's go. Let's get an I.D. on whether or not we have one. Please be to identify the quorum. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30299	Can I speak? Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you did not give a proposal to supplement the agenda for discussion, in an opportunity to comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30300	Here's the situation, ID 73 with the key, and there are 82 MPs in the assembly. Please determine the quorum by counting. This is a case where it's not the same result. We have a quorum of 83 agents. And I suggested getting into the agenda of the 12th session of two points. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the agenda? Here you go, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30301	So I have an objection, Mr. Vice President, and along the way, I remind you of a debate at the Bureau's meetings on this subject. And what was present today is a classic example of what I warned about. You've proposed a two-point completion of the agenda. We have before us a consolidated agenda of this session with 27 points of the agenda left. When proposing and determining this, you did not specify which item of the agenda you are proposing a supplement. So I guess that's going to be point 28 and 29. I'm looking for a decoded answer by which number of agendas you're listing you're proposing these agenda points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30302	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure you're referring to are in the process and has not yet been voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30303	I haven't called any Rules of Procedure if you've listened well to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30304	I ask that these points be placed on the agenda, and it will be notified that it is the authority of the President of the Parliament to report under which point of the agenda a point will be discussed. That's how it is for now. So we suggest that these two points be placed on the agenda. Since you made the remarks, we must vote on it. Who's in order for these two points to fit into the agenda to raise your hand? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? There isn't. I find that these two points are determined as actually included in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30305	As regards the work report on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation and the report on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out where the debate was concluded, today was one agreement with the presidents of the parties to postpone the debate or vote on the proposed conclusions until another agreement. Well, then we won't vote on that today. Also on the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to reach another agreement there. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the 12th session. And the next 13th session, I'll call in next week, and then we'll have Tuesday or Wednesday and that extended presidency, and I'll schedule that session for 9th, 10th and 11th March, and then again that week, 16, 17th and 18th, then we'll have a week's break for Easter Sunday, and then a sequel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30308	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the government. I'll ask the Prime Minister a question. We have publicly warned of cases of purchases of private property through APN with false contracts that means contracts by the owner's will. We have dozens of these on our lists, and I'm afraid there may be hundreds. So it's public knowledge. On this occasion, I'm warning you of some of the other applications we've received, it's about people who are now saying with documentation, we sold the property, signed contracts, but in this business we're cut off. I will mention here only one case of the Zlatovic family from Gline which for the house 85 squares in the floor plus the garage and some auxiliary facilities for the economic buildings in the arranged space 180 squares received 38 and a half thousand marks. People are looking for a revision now. The APN in our understanding was supposed to be a service that would help people who wanted to sell and help people who had no accommodations to take care of. We're counting on a position of good faith. We're afraid the APN is led not by state, but by its own policy. We're afraid that picking is not a state, but an interest, and it's called for both. It is certainly about the use of the debilitated position of individuals. Independent Mr. President about what with criminal charges, independent of criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30309	Mr. Gajic, it's been a long time. Ask a final question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30310	I'm asking, no matter what, the government is on the move. I'm asking you, Mr. President, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30311	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, you asked the question the government is working on right now. I received a provisional report from the APN director informing me that there were irregularities in the activities of the APN, mainly because of the fact that intermediation agencies from Serbia appeared with falsified signatures of citizens who owned the property in Croatia, so they did not sign the right owners, but they signed some, thus manipulated both owners and APN, received funds. What appeared in public is not true. So, according to our report, it's not true that APN was paying cash in cash, but was paying into account. So it's one of the delusions that were in public. If it turns out to be different, the APN will surely be held accountable. That's one thing. Second, eight criminal charges were filed against different persons. The rule of law has to work. As for the Croatian government, we will wait until the rule of law to see what it is and then we will withdraw the consequences. However, in my direction, the APN chief banned, that is, all the power to sell real estate, not now in Serbia, because there have been different manipulations of these and falsifications of checks, powers, but must be certified in Croatia or the Croatian Embassy, i.e. diplomatic and consular representations in Serbia-Montenegro. Therefore, we have taken all the steps, I want to express above all my great and deep dissatisfaction with the fact that some Croatian citizens are deceived by the manipulation of people who care neither about humanity nor about private property, but who want to earn on the misery and misery of others and the fraud. So this is a serious matter. APN has filed all the investigative activities inside the house to see if anyone from the house took part in it. If proven, there will be severe sanctions. And as for criminal charges, the rule of law has to do its part and then the government will withdraw the consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30313	Agent Gajica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30314	Mr. President, I agree and let's investigate the matter until the end. I just want to warn you something. There are a lot of people who are in impossible conditions and barely survive. I can't help it, the state authorities are telling them to go to court. It's a regular mechanism. They are referred to an impossible option. Please let us cancel the option without getting out of that thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30315	Dear Representative Frano Pipolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30316	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask the prime minister of the Croatian government Mr. Ivo Sanader. The Croatian Government, under your leadership, runs a policy of good neighbourly relations with the countries of our environment despite the fact that there are many open issues and problems. As a result of past war conflicts in 1992 in the area of Slavonski Brod and its surroundings and neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, some 20,000 refugees and exiles from Bosnia and Herzegovina found shelter. Despite many declarations by the international community that a smooth and effective return to the Bosnian Posavina area should be promoted, these people are still today in the Slavonski Brod area. The impression is that almost no one cares about these people anymore, that they are actually self-sufficient by their abilities, opportunities with the help of priests, Franciscans, some humanitarian associations and NGOs. This number of residents in the Slavonski Brod area have burdened all relations. Unfortunately, we have such situations that on the streets of Slavonski Brod, they are facing each day and I occasionally stress the brutal conflict of two troubles, one exile and the other domestic. One of which everyone thinks the other trouble is behind him. Both perspectives are dark, no job, and no indication that many young people could soon find a job. There's traffic in schools, kindergartens, churches, on the street, in the parking lot. When problems build up then they are solved on the street and so the town of Slavonski Brod became a city of murders and a city case. My question is, did the Croatian government have any real knowledge of the state of Slavonski Brod? Any plans to help this city, its inhabitants? Is it planning to relieve the town of Slavonski Brod of this number of inhabitants by making it possible to return more quickly and quality refugees and exiled in Posavino, clear to those who want to, or are they planning to be put into office of the company, state-owned companies in order to encourage effective employment?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30317	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, the Croatian Government is to directly answer your question aware of the situation in Slavonski Brod and everything you have stated. I'll answer with some information. First of all, as regards the return of Croats refugees from Bosnia's Posavina, that's what this is about. Of course there is always the final decision of every person on return or integration in Croatia. It will be in Sarajevo on January 31st, so in about 15 days and a conference on exactly that, because we are not satisfied with the return of Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is one thing. So that's what we're working on, that's what we're aware of. But for those who want to stay in Slavonski Brod in Croatia who want to integrate into Croatian society, and also for the economy of the Brod-Posavina County, which we know very much in the war and died in the war, I must say that we work extremely hard. I've prepared some data knowing about your question. So I'm going to say that the national programme to encourage entrepreneurship has approved over the past year in 2004 hundreds of different projects, from young people to defenders to incubators, etc. with incentives, 100 projects. If we had approved the grant of 2.8 million, 2 million and 800,000 kuna and that, according to that assessment, the number of projects we received, the number of funds we invested in the non-refundable that the Brod-Posavina County belongs to the order of the middle ones in Croatia according to the amount. And finally, I think it will certainly help the fact that the government's decision of 23 May established the Free Zone Đuro Đakovic, in the area of the Đuro Đakovic industrial zone with a total area of 41 thousand square meters. And that since 30 April, 23 May 2001, on 30 April 2002, we have expanded and that 29 companies with a total of 200 employees are operating in the free zone today. I think it is also important to note that aid has been granted, that it has been approved through the Ministry of Economy for the amount of millions and 600 thousand kuna grants to finance the infrastructure. That's not all, but it's just some data that's what the government is working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30319	Representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30320	Thank you, Mr. President, for your response. I'm happy with the answer. In the end, I would like to invite the Croatian Government to hold a session of the government in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30321	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30322	Dear ladies and gentlemen. Here's a question, so for Mr. Hebrang, now I don't know who's going to answer whether I'm Prime Minister or perhaps Mr. Vukelic on the content of the question. So I'm asking a question like this. The textile and training industry in Croatia is a significant export of employment and... It is estimated that more than 40,000 workers are still employed in these branches, that exports account for about 15% of total exports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unlike some other industrial branches, I primarily think of shipbuilding that gets directly from the budget of over 500 million kuna, textiles and trainers have not received any help or support from the state so far. A few months ago, textiles sent government conclusions, demands to improve the position of their branches. I myself asked with my written question a month ago that the government would be aware of its possible actions. But I have received a general response from Prime Minister Sanader that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing a judge of the strategic position of these branches for the future through the Ministry of Economy. We know that studies can't solve these problems, at least not in a short time, so I'm asking. Whether the Government will propose concrete, urgent measures to help the textile and training industry, as many warn that overrated kuna, unfair competition, and the unequal attitude of the state towards all industrial branches are threatening that we will soon run out of textile and training industries and thus with several tens of thousands of unemployed more so, for example. for some counties, Međimurje-Varaždinska, Krapinska, Zagorska was socially unsustainable. So please answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30323	Minister of Economy Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30324	Thank you. Thank you also for the question of a respected parliamentary representative because indeed the problem of the textile and leather industry is clear to all of us and present in Croatia, namely, it is about industry, which employs a lot of people, which is therefore working intensive but also about the industry which unfortunately is based on broken jobs and less on high-quality, high-income products, therefore, on brands, brands that could be easier to place on markets both Croatia and Europe. And therefore, a number of meetings and experts were held last year, but also with union representatives, and I must say that after a few years when there was no hearing and understanding about this industrial branch in Croatia in the last year, we really came up with a number of concrete projects. Well, in addition to this long-term strategy, the development of the textile and leather industry, what is very important and important to say is that for the first time in the 2005 budget, funds amounting to around 20 million kuna for the restructuring of the precisely textile and leather industry are foreseen. It is precisely in the direction of restructuring, which will result in the rise of the competitiveness of these companies, and in addition to these funds provided for by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, I would like to mention another project implemented by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Project 20 keys, a project involving Croatian companies again in the direction and in order to achieve their competitiveness and in this project which is being awarded by the Sufi and the Ministry of 7.5 million kunas will specifically include companies, companies, companies from the textile and leather industries. So this is what is in the budget and envisaged for this year, that is what this Ministry and the Croatian Government are going to do, I believe that here with these steps will go with, I would say solving and these difficulties that exist in the textile industry, clearly, as you yourself have said, will not be possible to resolve the situation in one year but it is very important that through this strategy that will be made in the first quarter of this year we define some three-year or five-year period of adaptation and restructuring in the textile and leather industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30325	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30326	So I can say that I'm not happy with the answer because that's because you said yourself that the problem is clear, that it's been pulling for several years but given what you've just said there are no big moves. As far as the budget itself is concerned, what I said about the inequality of these branches of industry, the 20 million kuna issue in which it will be deployed. Just to mention that in the budget, 5 million kuna received support from the item, an increase in the competitive ability of auto parts producers, which is not what we in Croatia currently have, right?- I'm sorry. Instead of focusing everything on the one who needs it most, then the textile shoe industry to keep them alive, we do it one other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30327	Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30328	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! I refer the question to the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. It is known to the Croatian public that several years ago the county opened an addiction prevention centre, and these centres faced a number of problems from not being even teamed up enough and the biggest problem was that workers, experts in those centres were disbursed because they were long, all these years paid by the contract of action and they dealt with it, they worked as best they could. Finally they are integrated into the county public health services. And finally, for the first time this year from the state budget, funds have been provided but for existing teams and existing people in those centres of prevention of addiction. My question is, Mr. Secretary of State when will the Ministry of Health provide the means for the full operation of these teams? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30329	Slowly, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Velimir Bozikov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30330	... This is one process where county centres for prevention of addiction with county public health services should be integrated. [[Specially enabled.]] Last year, a lot was done but was not in the wake of funds to improve that activity. As you have pointed out yourself this year we have predicted 4 million with forecasts that the Croatian lottery funds will reach another 9 million, this is the first time we have more funds than ever, plus we expect something from the decentralised funds of the county administrations. The process goes forward and also the Croatian Institute of Public Health as a roof institution he calls on county institutions and at the end of last year they discussed and established the system a lot. I am convinced that next year it will fully function this system as we wish and be the most effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30331	Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30332	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I am pleased that this government has the will and will certainly be able to solve this problem in the best possible way. I must once again point out that we owe our children, our youth the best education and help in the fight against addiction, in the fight against the plague of our age. And I think only real teams, complete teams with all the necessary experts can provide that education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30333	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30334	Your Honor, my question is to the Prime Minister. The Republic of Croatia has highly standardised national minorities' rights regarding information and access to electronic media under the Constitutional Law and under the Law on HRT. We are in implementation, unfortunately, of a temporary transitional solution to a week-long 92 Prism show that has... time of display, stop broadcasting when HRT responds as during the pre-election campaign and temporary takes 12 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Three years ago, the Croatian Radio programme The Croatian Voice from two-hour broadcast shifts to a 24-hour broadcast which, with a diaspora, would quote: "Severely improves the minority programme in Croatia because parts of the programme would be broadcast in minority languages Italian, Hungary, Czech Republic". The government then, but the current co-finances the programme with more than 12 million kunas. Today, HRT voluntarily abolishs individual minority emissions of this programme. My question to the prime minister reads: When will the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Radio-Television contract regulate mutual rights and obligations regarding emissions intended to inform national minorities under the Law on HRT... the law or the adoption of criteria for co-financing of production, emissions emissions intended to inform minority members in minority languages, and the European Charter on Regional Minority Languages is bound to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30335	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30336	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs, you have rightly said that we have a constitutional law on national minorities that regulates the issue of information and knowledge of the cultural goods of national minorities and of all others, and I think it is one of the better European legislation that regulates both the status of national minorities and informing them and getting to know their cultural goods, heritage and so on. However, we have another law, and that may be a direct answer to your question, which is the Law on Croatian Radio Television, which just now obliges Croatian broadcasting to minority programs and we have an article that is particularly important about which there were particular battles, and I remember in the past meeting of the Parliament, that 3% of the separations that go to the Pluralism and diversity, diversity and from that Fund should also be financed by these programmes. The question should therefore also be referred to the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council. I certainly accept the initiative that the government is involved in this, but that means there are resources that can be allocated to these emissions. Otherwise, according to my information on the International Programme of Croatian Radio, Croatian votes via the Internet satellite are reported on the activities of national minorities on the radio Zagreb, Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Pula, Knin and Osijek. And it may not be offensive to mention the fact that there is a Council for National Minorities and that in Croatia we have made a major step when it comes to the work of this advice, which is that, regardless of the government, the government's Council for National Minorities determines without the influence and interference of the Government on the basis of adopted criteria, it also determines the amount of funding for magazines, the ageings of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30337	Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30338	Thank the Prime Minister, however, minorities cannot be satisfied with the answer, and neither am I, because it is practically three issues from a set of minority laws where we can see that there is no implementation. The problem is that at the local level the situation is even worse and I really call for the government's obligation here to agree specifically on the criteria to be proposed by the Council. It's also a known fact, but to finally start doing what our obligation is to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30339	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30340	I refer the question to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Vukelic. In fact, the trend of increasing the number of unemployed has taken off again, so more than 5,000 of our citizens have found themselves at the Employment Office in the last month. What is particularly worrying about in the total number of unemployed has increased dramatically is the number of women who now make up a record percentage, so 60% in the total number of unemployed. My question to you is, why have you stopped all projects that have affected the reduction of the unemployed in the last year?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30341	Economy Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30342	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not true that we have stopped projects that have gone towards encouraging the employment of women, especially women, but the opposite. So in the last year, a number of programmes and projects have been opened up that have been talked about, since the promotion of entrepreneurship, from projects of entrepreneurship zones aimed at just opening up employment opportunities, above all, and one of the major problems you yourself have said is that at our employment offices it is a very high percentage and a higher percentage of women. In particular, we took care of this when we also formed a project for women entrepreneurship which we have made an exception to other programmes, which is that we have given the activity space and opportunity and freedom for entrepreneurs to decide on any activity while we target other programmes and projects to produce. I also have to say that through the programmes implemented through the Employment Service through the new National Employment Action Plan, through the new measures that we will take this year based on this National Employment Action Plan and adopt, I think it is precisely the basis of these measures, like all these programmes that the government has already adopted, which are already being implemented in the work, precisely to open up the possibility and space for new employment because I want to remind you last year that the level or number of unemployed was at one point below 300 thousand unemployed. It has now increased but we know for ourselves that, among other things, it is a consequence of seasonal work and winter, which is now that this seasonal work has stopped with some employees and I would end up with that in no way being able to talk about the abolition of any programme that has the consequence of the opening of new jobs and employment rather than the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30343	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30344	And I'm dissatisfied with Mr. Minister's answer because a lot of things are incorrect what you said. You have, in the last year, abolished the budget for measures of active employment policy. Secondly, in the last year, you in the Budget did not use a single lip for credit lines for small and medium enterprises. All your credit lines have remained intact, so you haven't done anything in the past year, and as a result, this is the result of an increase in unemployment, and on the other hand, all economic analysts warn that you have also slowed down investment in the economy, which also affects less job creation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30345	Dear Representative Vladimir Kurecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30346	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I ask the Minister of Defence Mr. Berislav Rončević a parliamentary question concerning the purchase of food products for the needs of the Croatian Army, which I was denied due to an administrative error at the last session of the Croatian Parliament, which was, it was and could be very current this year. Mr. Ministers during last autumn's harvest of vegetable cultures in which we had hyperproduction in the area of the Varazdin County and a very difficult placement of products by peasants, in Varazdin there is information that two wholesale companies are reportedly importing vegetables from Banja Luka and Glamoc in Republika Srpska for the needs of Croatian armies. In a situation where the Croatian farmer does not have a buyer for large quantities of quality and very cheap vegetables, the mentioned information is stunning. I ask the Minister to state whether the above claims are correct and if they are concerned with the intention of doing so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30347	Thank you. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30348	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. The defence ministry has concluded contracts with 14 suppliers for the supply of fruit and vegetables for the needs of Croatian armed forces. The contracts were concluded on the basis of a two-stage competition, taking into account the domicileness of suppliers, so that all bidders had to meet the general requirement to meet the competition, to settle social obligations, taxes and contributions. The annual MORH spends the purchase of fresh fruit and vegetables worth 11 million kuna. The contracts were collected, concluded with 14 companies, half of which are directly agricultural producers, agricultural cooperatives and craftsmen registered in agricultural activity. There are other companies based in the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on public procurement of fruit and vegetables is not directly known to us, no doubt that we would like all the fruits and vegetables of Croatian origin, because, based on the same legal article, we must not seek the origin of the goods or exclude the supplier in public in the tendering documents or in the technical request, if its centre is outside the Republic of Croatia. It is a positive regulation in the Republic of Croatia and we as a ministry must adhere to it. Since you already wanted to ask me at the last session of the Parliament, I have been informed in our service of purchase and contract and according to our knowledge of all the fruits and vegetables supplied for the needs of the Croatian army is Croatian origin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30349	Representative Vladimir Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30350	Thank you. I am pleased with this part of the answer, which denies the claim from the parliamentary question. Because I find it absolutely unacceptable that for the needs of the Croatian military, what is available in Croatia is imported quite enough in large quantities of quality and cheap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30351	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30352	Thank you very much, Mr. President, a question for the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health. The Međimurje appears to be on the front pages and the first minutes of information shows can only come when blood flows when people are buried and tragedies occur. Because obviously there are no involved farmers of wine farmers, cultural workers in Međimurje. One such case of grief has brought us again into the heat of the Croatian public and interest. I'd say an accident or a doctor's mistake or a misunderstanding about the death of a patient at Chakovec County Hospital. I will not present his name or possible diagnosis and causes of death because jet about the opposite of Article 25. The Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights as the Assistant Minister of the Ministry of Health has done. Husbands and children have compassion and an apology for all that they must now experience. And in public there are different, different expert opinions on the causes of the death of the deceased. The public is upset and convinced that the director of the county hospital, Čakovec, tried to cover up the whole case. And in particular, the public feeling is present after such a statement by Assistant Minister Ljubicic in a direct announcement on one of the TV shows. The public is further, Mr. Secretary of State, available information in expert findings. The pathology and pathologists and equators. However, nothing is said about the results of the findings in the patient’s ward or patient’s alleged death. To clear up whether or not it was someone who was trying to cover up the incident, I'm asking. Is it true that the director of the county hospital Čakovec immediately after receiving two different expert opinions on the incident reported and reported it to the state's attorney's office in Čakovec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30353	Thank you. State Secretary. Here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30354	Mr. Representative... You are indeed right that it was an accident, and I also want to offer my condolences in front of the Ministry of Health on this occasion from the pay phone of the Croatian Parliament, the family of the deceased. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are both grateful to the media and so much that the media always point to certain failures they were given, it's a matter of the investigation committees of both the institution and the health ministry. The findings so far really show that it is eminently three university professors that the deceased did not really die because of the rejuvenation as it was said in one section. It is now at the stage of the state's attorney's office, or the co-owned authorities who have determined the resolution, and only after that will we be able to definitely provide additional elements on the case. Once again, I want to say my condolences to the family and understanding. Clearly, it is difficult for them to lose a loved one, but I believe that further actions will eventually come to an end, or to calm our public. Is the director of the hospital right away, we weren't unfortunately immediately informed at the beginning only we were later involved in this case. But when we learned we took all the measures we gave the inspection and indeed three of the most valuable pathology professors of the Zagreb University's judicial medicine were involved in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30355	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30356	Thank you very much. As far as I understand you State Secretary you're not familiar with the fact that the principal has or has not reported the case to the State's Attorney's Office? If so, if you don't know it then I'm even more surprised by the ministry's request, which was sent to the 14th alleged and by fax to Čakovec for 4 days, that the hospital's director is being replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30357	Thank you. Honorable representative of Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would like to refer the question to the Minister of the Interior Mr. Mlinaric. Mr. Ministers of 9 January again were attacked by SDP premises in Velika Gorica, I say again because it is already 3 attacks or an attempt to attack the party's headquarters in Velika Gorica. This time, the attackers used a stone plate to pave the squares. Not all glass surfaces have been broken, no decommissioned installations have been found and no break-in tool has been found, as in previous attempts. There was no one in the rooms at the time of the accident. On January 14th, SDP councilman at the municipal council in Pokupski Mr. Zeljko Findrik received an anonymous threat by telephone that his family house would have a bomb that would blow him up. In both cases, the police intervened, and they did their job properly. And both cases, the perpetrators are still unknown. While the competent institutions are finally answering the question of who the perpetrators of these misdemeanors are, we must rely on the fact that attacks and threats to attacks occur every time the SDP publicly points to the failures and affairs of city and municipal authorities in Velika Gorica and Popusko. And they're growing more and more seriously affected by public areas and public finances in both places. In order to make the investigation more effective, these cases have led me to ask you a question or to give me an assessment of how dangerous it is or how safe it is to be today SDP's host in Velika Gorica and in the wider mountainous area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30359	Thank you. Minister of the Interior Marijan Mlinarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30360	Have a nice Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Agent, you yourself have answered that the police have done their job knowingly. All investigative actions and continue to be sought for perpetrators as well as in any other case when threats have been made to any of the government officials. It's not just the council and it's not just SDP's room. We all know that these are not only with us, but everywhere in the world, possible phenomena. The police are hired to find the perpetrators. And here's what we've seen, and in some other cases, often these perpetrators find themselves when there are certain clues that point to them. I believe that the security situation in Croatia is generally and also here at a still envious level, according to many indicators. According to many indicators and such individual incidents that occur certainly do not reduce the overall safety assessment in Croatia, which according to at least 10 indicators is among the best in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30361	Honorable representative of Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30362	Thank you for your response, Mr. Secretary. I can be partially satisfied with him. I wish I could share optimism about the security assessment you've given. I am pointing to a case that, or at least I hope that the current investigation will reveal the perpetrators because you probably agree with me that the conditions of general uncertainty cannot lead an adequate policy anywhere in Velika Gorica. And we cannot allow anyone to return the bombs and stones as an argument to Croatian politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30363	Thank you. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30364	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I refer the question to the Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Many citizens of Split have come to me and asked me to ask this question and that group that is interested in the apartments of socially encouraged housing on the list for the City of Split. They're upset because the construction of these apartments in the location of Brodarica has completely stopped. The mayor of Split refuses to finance the municipal infrastructure. It claims that the government has begun to shut down the incentive housing programme, that it has provided only 3 million kuna in the budget for the state budget, that Majihian relations with the City of Split. Furthermore, the contractor started offering commercial contracts, not at the price of POS, but commercial housing contracts. The parliamentary representative, Mr. Marin Jurjevic, claims he will sue the government. In this cacaphony, I ask you to tell what is true and whether there is hope for Split's tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30365	Thank you. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30366	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that Split is now the only city in which we have problems continuing to build encouraging housing. Namely, in the former law, in the law passed by the former government, but also in the amendments and additions to this Law, it is clear that the Croatian state can finance maximum promotional housing with 35% of the etalan value of an object in a particular location. There's actually a general provision that says, "25%, and where a local self-government unit can't secure land 35%." The amendments to the Law have not been amended. It means that the state of Croatia provides for all POS locations in Croatia 175 euros in construction and where land cannot be provided 70 euros per square. That's 245 euros per square, which is 35% of the building's ethlon value. About the former law, meaning in the law of the former government, those in the previous term and in the amendments and additions, it says that municipal infrastructure is financed by local self-government units. There were, when we came to the Ministry, there were two contracts, two pre-contracts, that should be particularly stressed. There are no contracts but two pre-contracts that said the state should finance more than 35%. So, past the law, and that's true, that was worth it to Split and Varazdin. In Varazdin, we pointed out the problem to them, and Varazdin accepted and financed the municipal infrastructure at the same time because no unit of local self-government or state can behave beyond the law. Split does not want this, and it is clear at this time that we as a government who wants to work under the law cannot in any case finance the municipal infrastructure only to Split because then we should do so to all other units of local self-government in the territory of Croatia. And the other thing is that all citizens who buy POS apartments must be exactly the same, and in the law, the law, the one from before, means in the law, the articles of the Law that we have changed, it says that even payment must be equal to those apartments. At this time, he wants to transfer credit to citizens so that citizens are overly burdened. So instead of the war, I don't know, out of 100 and some euros, we'd be paying about 50 euros or depending on the size of the apartment, more, 50% more that people can't accept because they can't take those loans because the question is how much money they have and whether they're even creditworthy for a certain amount. Therefore, we, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, continue to work on POS. We've secured 166 million kuna in our budget. You can see that in all "The People's News" and on the Internet. Therefore, that information is not correct. The other thing is we want to, and we have to do it so that everyone is equal by law. Both citizens and local self-government units. Split must take over, financing municipal infrastructure, because both in the Law and in amendments to the Law, the provision remained exactly the same. And just one more thing, about the Stepmother's relationship. This year, Split received the highest amount for the recovery of waste dumps in Karipovac of 59 million kuna and thus, at the time when the works are carried out, we pay for the situation of these works. Therefore, the Croatian state is very concerned about Split, but requires that all citizens and all units of local self-government be equal as it is written in the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30367	Thank you. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30368	I am pleased with the answer in the section relating to APN, Ministry and Government, but I am still concerned about the other part. Because there is both interest and intention to stop being POS's location and turn into a marketable location that can be sold well.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30369	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30370	Mr. President, members and members of the government. I refer my question to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Vukelic. Mr. Minister, I assume you remember the end of the 99th year when 165 thousand workers were registered in Croatia who were working at the time and did not receive salaries. In a few years, by January 2004, we managed to reduce that number to about 30,000. So in January 2004, the number of workers working and not receiving salaries was about 30,000. Last year absolutely nothing seemed by the government that the number of workers continued to decrease, so these workers began to receive salaries. That is how it shows data from November of last year when in just a month, the new 2,000 workers were left without a job, or without a salary. So, more specifically, compared to October when there were 30,000 650 such workers, 32 thousand 903 workers worked in November last year and did not receive salaries. At the same time, in that month over 200 companies had, new companies with blocked giro accounts, and outstanding payment orders in that month increased by 70 million kuna, and today they amount to more than 11.16 billion kuna. Mr. Minister, if last year the government has done nothing to make the number of workers who work and do not receive the pay reduced to as little as possible, I'm interested in whether now that number has begun to increase you, your ministry or government have any solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30371	Economy Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30372	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say that the Government does not do what the previous Government did, which is that it solved the problem of people who work and do not receive salaries in the way of bankruptcy and conditions at the Employment Office. So in that part you can be right. But as for this Croatian government, this ministry and other economic ministries all last year has just been focused on economic policy towards resolving, restructureing those companies, those companies that have difficulty in business and with opening up clearly and through business zones through programmes to encourage entrepreneurship and other projects to open up the chances, opportunities and development of existing businesses as well as the opening up of new ones. And I could now talk about a lot of those programs that were adopted last year and that aim exactly at this, so either to restructure and from existing companies that have difficulty in doing business with the support of the government create companies that can operate independently on the market, whether through programmes and incentives to open new companies and companies we open up the possibility of hiring people and I would say solving those problems that we have with a large number of unemployed in Croatia. Therefore, I think that these programmes could be cited by not only a small- and medium-sized entrepreneurship incentive programme, not just a promotion of craftsmanship that records and growth in the past year, not just a reduction in the number of unemployment we have, and many other indicators that we have in the past year. What I want to say, and clearly, is that in those companies and companies that have difficulties in doing business, and in these difficulties, you are just stating examples of companies that do not pay their wages, we have difficulty paying our employees' salaries and we are looking for the way of possible restructuring of such a company and company, so training for normal business, income business on the market, and that is what we have done through and through our activities related to TLM, our activities related to also "Djuru Djakovic" for the therefore metro-restructuring industry, for shipbuilding, for all those companies and companies that have difficulties in their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30373	Thank you. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30374	Mr. Minister, I'm not happy with your answer... Because out of the nice words, people who work and don't get paid don't have anything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You said you've been looking for a way over the last year, so in that search for a road you've lost it seems to me at least on one of those parts. Namely, the figures say something else, that you, your ministry and government have no development policy, because in a few months, the number of unemployed has increased by nearly 20 thousand, the number of workers working and not receiving wages is increasing, the number of companies with blocked gyro-accounts is increasing. And it's sad actually that instead of offering solutions, you agree to deny clean numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30375	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30376	Thank you. And my question was addressed to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Vukelic. Mr. Minister, when are you going to launch the tendering procedure for the sale of the County maltorna to protect the economy of our city, the county and beyond. During the election campaign and Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor said she supports the demand of workers to become the owners of the majority of the shares package and to acquire the ability to manage through working stock. And we agree with that view with the view that we believe that the majority package should have workers and co-operatives sugar beet manufacturers in cooperation with the local community. Out of a series of arguments, I'll only list some who justify these views. Thanks to the conversion and privatisation in the Croatian way and the tycoon administration, Sladoran was led to a breakdown and many claimed that bankruptcy and liquidation should be carried out above it. The former government gave them the best chance they could use, managed to become a profitable society that meets all its obligations, service inherited debts and start new investment cycles. It's not a minor fact that the Sladoran warehouses are full of new quality sugar. If they didn't sell it to workers by model of stockholdering to them and the whole neighborhood, you'd be making a huge injustice. We don't want to be victims for the second time and experience it. Mr. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30377	Economy Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30378	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear parliamentary MPs, although this issue should have been focused on another resolution ministry that is related to the problem of Sladorana, but I can answer you clearly with the facts and what happened. So, the Privatisation Fund proposed, defined the conditions of the tender. Workers, employees, trade unions, therefore all interested parties and the Privatisation Fund's proposal, and clearly through the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship that this material is being forwarded to the Government, the government has made a decision on the call for tendering, the tender has not been called, the decision has not yet been made, therefore I think that, as was the case for the definition and conditions of the competition, so all interested parties should be taken into account, so both the employees and what they want with Sladoran, so from the future of the company, and the company. I believe that the decision that will eventually be made by the Croatian government will be in the interest of these companies, companies, employees and the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30379	Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30380	Thank you. I'm not happy with the answer. And I didn't ask Minister Cobankovic as Secretary of Staff because he's four. 1. in the County, in the presence of workers, trade unions, management, parliamentary representatives, representatives of the city and the county, said it is not reluctant to cancel tenders under certain conditions. Unsatisfactory response will be City Chiefship, City Council, County Assembly, political parties, parliamentary representatives and even from the HDZ ranks that have agreed to these demands, the chairman of the Supervisory Board. Gentlemen, if he thinks what he's saying, he'll be dissatisfied with Madam Vice President, and he'll be dissatisfied with the representatives of the Association of Volunteers and Homeland War veterans of the Vukovar-Srijem branch because there are 151 developed defenders among the workers, and among the cooperatives 374. And they will also be dissatisfied with these 3,000 and 800 signatories of the petition who thus expressed their desire and will to what they have done with their efforts and work and to remain in their possession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30381	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30382	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will ask my question to the Prime Minister. In fact, starting from the fact that there is a significant number of indications and established doubts about the illegal handling of transcripts from the Office of the President of the HSP Club is 12. 11 last year initiated the need to set up an investigative commission. Therefore, the basic objective of the HSP was exclusively to establish full truth and was not done as part of the presidential campaign. We know for ourselves that the presidential campaign is over, that we have held a plenary debate about this request, and we know in particular what a difficult problem it is with so-called. Brijuni transcripts since 31 July 95, which serve the prosecution as fundamental evidence for the so-called A criminal offence based on charges against General Gotovina, Markac and all of our other generals. So no more presidential campaigns, it's all over, we need to help the generals and I'm asking you a question to the Prime Minister, and it's also the president of the HDZ whether you personally support the need to set up this committee in order to determine the full truth, and thus help our indictees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30383	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30384	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Kovacevic, none of this government has done more to defend the dignity of the Homeland War and of all those who participated in this war, including Croatian generals and none of us will do more in the future. When it comes to this particular case, it should be said to the public that General Gotovina's lawyers filed a lawsuit against the unknown, so they filed a lawsuit against the State's Attorney's office against the unknown perpetrator, that the State's Attorney's office is investigating the whole case, and when the case is over, then the public will be informed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30385	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30386	Well, Mr. President didn't answer this question at all, he was on the side. Namely, in our request for a commission of investigation, there's only one part of this case of transcripts. I asked you openly, do you, as president of the HDZ, support exactly on the basis of what you said you were doing?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30387	As a question to the party's president, it's not for the Rules of Procedure, it's only for the Prime Minister. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30388	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and of the Croatian Government, members of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues, parliamentary representatives. My question will be addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Cobankovic. Since the Republic of Croatia is a member of the World Trade Organisation, and also since we have signed agreements and protocols with the European Union that we have undertaken with regard to the arrangements for the import and export of agricultural products and foodstuffs, it is obvious that we are entering a period during which Croatia's agriculture and food industry will no longer be able to protect, or we will not be able to protect so much, administrative measures and customs barriers. On the other hand, we are witnessing that more and more agricultural and food products are being imported into Croatia for which we allocate large financial resources in certain years are even worth over billions, billions and 200 US dollars. Let's remind ourselves of 2002. And not only do we single out high financial resources, but they are products of questionable quality, but also of questionable origin. My question is, what measures does the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy take to prevent food imports of questionable quality and health?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30389	Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobanković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30390	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, allow me to answer your question in short lines. Yes, one of the burdensome moments of Croatian agriculture is the import of agricultural and food products. As far as the market liberalisation process itself is concerned, it is as it is and unfortunately Croatia must be a participant in these processes. In order to protect the interests of its producers and its consumers, Croatia must normally lead its own agricultural and food policy. When we talk about import, we need to figure out two things. One is importing what is missing in Croatia. And I think that's a much bigger problem. We must primarily increase the production of our own in agriculture, and this will be the backbone for the development of the food industry. Unfortunately, in the vast majority of agricultural products, Croatia has no self-sufficiency. And that's what this Ministry and this government are stressing during this period, increasing and increasing production and increasing the number of agricultural products in which we will come and ensure self-sufficiency. As far as the second part of the issue is concerned, normally Croatia must be a country that will protect its citizens and its consumers from the product, conditional on questionable quality. I would like to emphasise that we can only achieve this by establishing adequate legislation and establishing certain institutions that will be able to implement this legislation. So Croatia must comply with its legislation, its rules, with the rules of high quality standards, which must be harmonised with European Union legislation precisely for the needs and ways to protect ourselves. The second is the establishment of institutions, or better said adequate laboratories, which will be able and able to examine goods and therefore to adopt and, on the basis of certain regulations or regulations, to adopt a prohibition measure or to prohibit imports of such goods. I would like to point out that in the last year, we made an extremely large step in me, when we analysed the seeds, we found that a type of hybrid corn seed does not satisfy the conditions and that it contains genetically modified organisms. It's very important to emphasize. Because in 2003, at 11 months, we passed the Nature Protection Act and where we had a foothold so that we could carry out these activities. We have a laboratory that has been able to examine the participation of GMOs and Croatia has shown that the past time in Croatia could be declared one thing, and in fact there is something else in the product. And that's what we're doing, and we're doing it in principle in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30391	Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30392	I thank Mr. Secretary for his reply. I see the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Agriculture, is working on this. Since negotiations with the European Union begin on 17 March, I call on Minister Cobankovic in Slavonia and Baranja in Osijek to hold on this particular issue a tribune with those who are concerned about the issue, namely those who produce agricultural and food products and that the Ministry, so Minister Cobankovic and his associates in Osijek, holds a round table, that is, on this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30393	Thank you. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30394	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question to Mr. President of the Croatian Government. Mr. President, this was asked by the former workers of the Vela Luka Shipyard to ask you, after the Greben Shipyard went bankrupt in 2002, after some time it was sold, and it was sold to imagine at a price ten times less than the goods in the warehouses of that shipyard, the workers rebelled, even filed charges on various courts, so far there is no answer. Their demand is somewhere around 12 million kuna. Mr. President, the question to you is, what are you going to do, can you do besides any kind of investigation, because there are already several times, can you do or can you do that to these people at least to get some money back that they can live because they're on the verge of hunger? And you know well that life on the island is hard and under the best conditions. These are no conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30395	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30396	Madam MPs, knowing that you would ask, because you announced this question, I asked to be given precise information regarding these very transactions that you were talking about bankruptcy. And it should be said that on 22 May 2002, a bankruptcy procedure was launched, a solution to the Commercial Court in Split, the Greben Vela Luka shipyard. That on 6 December 2002, a decision was adopted by the Parliament of creditors on the purchase of the property of the creditor as a whole by the company Mont-montage engineering Zagreb. On the sale of assets, the group of workers objected to the fact that the price reached was too low, which answers your question and does not guarantee the payment of the employee’s claim and that the tenderer did not respect the contractual obligations of the contract. The complaint was rejected unfortunately by a decision of the Commercial Court in Split on 30 December 2002. Everything happens two, three years ago. On 31 December 2002, it was then concluded after the Commercial Court refused to object to the workers, the Treaty on the Sale of the Greben d.d. Shipyard was concluded. in bankruptcy of the company montage engineering from Zagreb. On 1 May 2003, five months later, a registration was made at the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik and since then, the company has been operating under the name of the installation of the Greben Vela Luka. The bankruptcy proceedings, according to the court's ruling, have left the remaining outstanding claims of 344 thousand kuna. To settle these claims, Greben deposited funds at the expense of the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik in bankruptcy. Those assets are secured by the sale of the creditor. This is a factual state, therefore, of workers for whom I, like you, have a lot of understanding and we know that it is, especially since it is an island, so they are working under a lot of difficult circumstances and living than the rest of us on land. However, the fact is that the Trade Court just ruled out, I will once again quote when it was: “30. In December 2002, the Commercial Court in Split rejected the opposition of workers." What we can do now is, I don't know, maybe there's a legal way to try again, maybe that case is restarted, I'm not in that case, and in this sense maybe I don't have all the legal information we can do, it might be the only attempt to appeal to the new owner for installation. If the correct objection by workers, despite the decision, is the contrary to the decision of the Commercial Court to appeal to them, to the new owner to act differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30397	Dear Representative Ruža Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30398	It seems to me that in this country, no one in this country protects and neither does the customers and all the other shields. The fact is that the workers lost 12 million kunas of their salaries and I don't think there's that court or I don't know how that could have happened. So I would suggest that some kind of research continues it's too much money for a little place like Vela Luka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30399	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to set a break of 20 minutes. And the first in line is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the session and "The current morning". Honorable representative Silvano Hrelja is asking a representative question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30401	Dear President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I ask my question to the Minister of Finance, Mr Ivan Shuker. In a December discussion last year in a united debate on amendments to the pension laws package and when adopting the Income Tax Act, we found that since 2002 there was the possibility of returning more paid contributions from generation solidarity to all those who constantly or occasionally receive income more than 30, circus 33 thousand kuna gross monthly. Since the model of generation solidarity in these areas or in the past socio-political system when the pay ranges were 1:5, and even during the Homeland War when it was really difficult to live in Croatia, we in Croatia want to know the dimension of this legal privilege for Croatian citizens with the highest incomes based on income or wages. The question is: How much has been made during 2003 and 2004 for the repayment of several pension insurance contributions paid on the basis of the submission of applications in the annual application for the repayment of several paid contributions from the Generation Solidarity System within the meaning of Article 77. The law on contributions to compulsory insurance. Please provide information on the absolute amount, the total amount paid back of the contribution and the number of users of the rights on that basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30402	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30403	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Representative, you know well that in 2003 no refund could be made for the reason that the Mandatory Insurance Contribution Act entered into force in 1.1.2003, and by the basis of that Law, the refund for overpaid contributions could only be made in the following year so that in 2004, those who had the subscription of the pension insurance contribution amounted to a total of 817 have submitted a request for a refund, too much overpaid, and I would say, with that data of 817 applications submitted and recognised returns in Croatia, there are about a million and 600 pension contributions from this or that basis. So 817 filed a request. The requirement was in total amount of 31 million kuna and 800 thousand kuna, and since contributions for pension and health are not the basis for the collection of income tax, before that return to those who applied for reimbursement, it was necessary to account for the income tax on those paid funds, and since these funds are taxed at a rate of 45 %, the tax and contribution was made, and therefore on the budgets of the units of local self-government so that cities, municipalities, the county of the state budget was paid to 15 million and 800 thousand, and the total payment of the pension contribution of 15 million and 300 thousand kuna in 2004 for 2003, and in accordance with the Law on Contribution and Amendments to that Law and the Regulation of the more payment of the pension insurance contributions in 2004 will be made after 1 February 2005 and then will be granted to the extent of the requirement in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30404	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30405	Although this seems to be a small asset, it is 31 million or 15 million contributions paid to me in Croatia, we believe that it is not an insignificant amount of money, and even less so after the derogation of constitutional provisions on the social state and social justice and justice. It would be better to resolve at least one retirement system deviation instead of rewarding an elite minority, whose success among other things is measured and the profit achieved for owners, which means that the elite minority produces new early, early retirements and new unemployed who ultimately pay Croatian taxpayers. I believe this is inadmissible for Croatia as a state of social justice. I ask on behalf of HSU that this issue be reviewed at government level and in agreements with the Croatian Party of Retired, all in the spirit of constitutional principles. I'd like a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30406	Thank you. So the written answer. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30407	Dear President of the Parliament, I refer my question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Mlinaric. The Association of Citizens "Gong" has proved that in the first round of the presidential elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, some candidates were voted alive and some alive and dead. The electoral program of these candidates is thus extended to the preservation of life from conception to natural causes... /The speaker is excluded./... death. Minister Mlinaric, what have you done to shed light on all the circumstances of this paranormal phenomenon? Have you asked the DIP for an insight into the election material and established cooperation with the investigative authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to compare those who went out to the elections and with the insight into the Matica of the dead to establish the scales of this unusual phenomenon. But along with a large number of dead voters, an extremely large number of live ones appeared who were subsequently on election day included in the voter list in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only at polling station number 10 in Mostar were 30%. Have you established how much the border crossing with Bosnia and Herzegovina has been increased to the day of the election and how 50 people in Metkovic and Makarska may have been reported at one address and whether they have used their electoral rights in both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, thereby committing the crime of electoral fraud under Article 118. Penalty law? Did you start an investigation to find out who was responsible for the disastrous situation with the voter lists, even if it led suddenly to State Secretary Mr. Palaric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30408	Thank you. Home Secretary, Mr. Marijan Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30409	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I'm surprised at this question. We are not yet one country so the Croatian police can do research on whether someone is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you are the representatives of this idea that we do not have the right to interfere in the situation in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can, we can kindly ask that something be done in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but certainly no investigative committees of our police have jurisdiction in another country. So, so that's out of the question that we would be doing investigative work there whether someone was dead or, or voting alive. In addition, in any case and according to even newspaper articles, we see, and according to the findings of the State Election Commission, it is not at all the number you mention but that there are several cases that have, which have not at all affected the results of the election. And besides, it's within the jurisdiction of the State's Attorney's office to investigate, and it certainly doesn't, that we are now getting involved in a situation in the neighbouring state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30410	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30411	There's no place to surprise the minister. Because Bosnia and Herzegovina and I have a signed Interstate Cooperation Agreement. Therefore, you could base the Agreement on addressing law enforcement authorities in the neighbouring country and ask them to conduct an investigation. You could have answered me... [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30412	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30413	Let's calm down the MPs so I can speak. So you could have done it if you'd been better... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30414	Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30415	Secondly, I didn't mention any numbers, but "Gong" found out that out of 10 were surveyed, which is 40%. I'm wondering if this could prove to be on the eternal pattern, no, but it should be investigated in any case because it's a serious crime of burning fraud. So, Minister, I'm extremely unhappy that you haven't spoken to the authorities of the neighbouring country. Because that would show that these unholy acts that have taken place are not in your party's best interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30416	A colleague. Overrun something, another fair play in expressing satisfaction or dissatisfaction. And yet again, there is one meal at the expense of the Croatian Democratic Community. We have reached a gentleman's agreement on political culture, a culture of speech about not crossing certain rubicons. I'm asking that we all stick to it. Dear representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30417	Mr. President, I will refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture and Water Economy, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. And it refers to ptoics. For the past few months, we have witnessed orchestrated campaigns which also use incentives as a model to say that this government, and especially the Ministry of Economy, or agriculture, and the minister does not take care of peasants. And it has been said through various media and local and this state, that the government will not respect its own law on the incentives it has passed. That with the name of the incentive, they will pay less than the law provides for similar stories. And even this was discussed in individual county congregations, including the Koprivnj County Assembly. My question is: Mr. Minister, what exactly is the real and real state of affairs regarding the payment of incentives and respect for the law for 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30418	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30419	Thank you very much. Like this. I need to clear a few things up. And in order to make that clear, I'll use the arguments. This government is increasing financial support and incentives in agriculture. And that would be clear to all of us, I will present the data on the total aid in agriculture since 1999, when it was a circus of 972 million, in 2000 a billion 592 million were paid, in 2001 a billion 505 million was paid, in 2002 a billion 637 million, in 2003 a billion 663 million was paid. In 2004, a billion 916 million were paid. I think he's saying this enough for himself. Now, as for the payout of the 2004 incentive, I have to point out, and I think it's clear to everyone after that, that in 2004, an Ess was inherited on the basis of 2003 law in the amount of the 812 million kuna circus. We carried out these obligations and continued to pay the support under the 2004 rights. But also in line with the budgetary possibilities, and for the model of promotion of production this year was projected to be a billion 771 million kuna. We used those funds, and with those 812 million we continued to a billion 771 million to pay off the support. During this year, we carried the liabilities on the basis of 2004 at the same amount as the Circ. 800 million kuna. We have in agreement with the Ministry of Finance made a programme of payment of support, and this programme or better said payment of money support will be completed in 1 and 2 months when all those liabilities will be paid on the basis of 2004. And that's a fact. As regards the change in the model of payment of the aid in 2003, the amended law on monetary support, and before that were established the agricultural quotas, meanings in the areas of the quota were established on the basis of 60% of the radiation of certain cultures. In translation, 60% were in the incentive system, 40% were out of the incentive system. Now changing the model that was done in 2003 is a different way of calculating. And no crop quotas are established but is determined according to the law maximum-encouraged amounts for a particular culture. Where, on the basis of the register, summation of total surfaces is carried out, the total maximum amount shall be allocated for that crop with the surface and we shall receive the amount of support. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30420	Dear representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30421	I thank Mr. Minister for very clearly clarifying the situation if he encourages it. I hope we can get her to the ones she's dealing with, and she's heard this. And I hope that that whip, which Mr. Croatian Peasants' Union symbolically handed to the president of the state in Bjelovata County, will be gathering dust on Pantovack. And that it won't be used to say a gift on the edge of the distaste, for what the government has done well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30422	Dear Representative Joseph Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30423	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government. I would like to ask my question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Marijan Mlinarić. Mr. Minister, you have, by your decision of 9 December last year, reduced the number of test centres for passing driver's exams from 155 to 20. The 20 centres in the future will only be in cities that are also county headquarters until smaller cities have them. I note that this will significantly accumulate and complicate the passing of the driving test. For example. Each candidate will have to travel at least four times in the city to pass the driving exam, the first time he reports it, when he's taking first aid, when he's taking the theoretical part, and of course when he's taking the ride. I note other than that it should have been solved by a rule, not by a solution, but that is less important this time. My question is: Whether the current situation will be detained by Mr. Doe's ministers, or you will change it and when. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30424	Thank you. Interior Minister Marijan Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30425	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Representative. That in order to settle the situation with regard to passing driver's exams, you yourself said that you had 150 places to take driver's exams and that we had a situation that many of our citizens were nice when they passed the driving exam and came to Zagreb and left the car in Dubrava and took public transport to Zagreb because they were unable to drive through the big city. From one single objective, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia shall, on equal terms, take a driving test before the competent test committees and show such knowledge to be able to manage the vehicle in all parts of Croatia in each major city. We went to a reduction of the committees, because this situation was not satisfactory. Of course we have already received from several cities questions would it be possible to increase the number of commissions in the Republic of Croatia. I can tell you even though this was the most just solution, which is that the county centers are the ones where you're going to take the driver's exam and then it's the same for all the county. And there wouldn't be any injustice in fact. However, if it will be seen that certain cities where commissions have worked well, where they have conditions, where they can do so is not this solution of sacredness that could not change. Especially, I say, especially since we can do it in a few ways, at least, that's those four reasons, that we don't have to do it four times. First of all, that tests and first aid, etc., can be taken somewhere lower. So, not exactly in the center, but in any case, driving, driving as a final part of the driving test, should be taken in one place in the city, the big city and under the same conditions for traffic safety in the Republic of Croatia and for the knowledge that drivers acquire before going to the road to reach an enviable level and thus to increase traffic safety in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30426	Representative Josip Vresk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30427	I'm only partially satisfied with this answer. Of course, this is not a good situation, so I ask you a written answer with an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30428	Thank you. The Minister's written reply. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30429	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen and gentlemen of the government. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy, Minister Cobankovic. Mr. Minister, the city of Ogulin is threatened with floods every day in the greater rain. The last flood occurred in the 7th month of the 99th year when 2/3 of the city was flooded and the total damage was approximately 20 million kuna, and the indirect could be multiplied by factor 5. The 99-year-old government, meanwhile, has damaged the county and the city of citizens in cca 10% of the total damage. The government gave no kuna from 2000 to 2004 for compensation to citizens, regardless of what was declared an elemental disaster. My question is: what has been done on the system of defence against the flood of the City of Ogulin in these past five years, and when can citizens of the City of Ogulin expect to begin their work on the defense system against the flood of our city? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30430	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30431	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I can also answer your question very briefly because it is visible that practically nothing has happened. This also resulted in a flood recorded in Ogulin on 31.10.2004. So, from the year 99 when there was a major catastrophic flood and when a decision was made to build a defence project from the flood of the City of Ogulin to practically 2004, nothing happened. In 2004, activities are activated, and I can now say that an idea of defence against the flood of the City of Ogulin was developed during that period, that the project was introduced into urban plans of county and city. That an environmental impact study is under way and an audit of the idea solution has been carried out. So certain assumptions are being made that in the right way we could get into solving this, I absolutely agree, a very significant problem because we can't let any stronger rain threaten the flood of a certain city. And accordingly, I would like to point out that for these works last year, cca 500 thousand kuna was spent, that in this year, as I said, after making an environmental impact study, it is going to be on the outcome of the local permit and building permits to go into the resolution and completion of the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30432	Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30433	Mr. Minister, I thank you for your reply, and I'll be happy when the papers start.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30434	Dear Representative Krunoslav Makovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30435	Namely, my question was addressed to Mr. Branko Vukelic, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Business zone theme. In fact, business zones are a common topic of business, government and media. In particular, emphasis is placed on new business areas, and significant investments are needed in the expansion and utility of existing areas. We are aware that in entrepreneurship areas we can provide the best conditions for potential entrepreneurs and investors. My question is: How much money has been spent on how many zones, or what is the realisation and investment in such zones?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30436	Minister Petar Cobanković, please welcome Excuse me, Branko Vukelic. [[Intruder: No, Vukelić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30437	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear Mr. Representative, you are right when you say that entrepreneurial zones are a prerequisite for the development of entrepreneurship and economy in Croatia, so the Croatian government has also made a decision and adopted a programme to encourage the construction of entrepreneurship zones and I must say this on this occasion when we are talking about areas. Those skeptics who said that 400 zones in our counties or in Croatia are too large a figure, in a contest that was called over 500 zones from local self-government units in Croatia. Therefore, this figure of 400 has been exceeded, and a tender for co-financing for the construction of already existing zones or zones formed has been opened in the programme to encourage the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. So it's a practical implementation project and we've received over 200 requests, proposals, requests for co-financing. In last 2004 budgets for this purpose amounted to €55 million. And here I would like to say that this amount is triple, or that this amount is more than 3 years of separation for that purpose of the previous Government. So, from 2001 to 2003, not so much funds were allocated as in the budget for the last year. The interest was great, we divided all 55 million kunas. I'll just say a little bit of statistics. So it's financed by these 96-zone assets in 95 units of local administration and self-government. In each county, it is financed on average between 3 and 6 zones at most. On average, the County has an average of 4.8 zones, with kunas ranging from one million to two million kunas per one or three million kuna per county. Compared to the total appropriations and the resources available, 570,000 kuna was paid on average per zone. It's the average in the zones. Clearly, the zones are different, depending on the cash and the works they perform in them. What is important to say is that currently in the Croatian zones that exist, exist or are already doing something in them or conditions have been created for work, that the number of these zones is 216 and the 2005 Budget provides once again for twice as much resources as it was in last year. So, last year 55 million kuna, for this year 110 million kuna, and I believe that we will be able to track and co-finance all units of local administrations and self-government in all counties in the construction of entrepreneurship zones as very important infrastructures and preconditions for the development of entrepreneurship in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30438	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30439	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here I am also taking the opportunity, given that many cities and municipalities do not have land for entrepreneurship zones, that the government speeds up the allocation of land owned by the state, precisely to the units of local administration and self-government. That the whole process of forming a zone and entering into spatial plans is accelerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30440	Thank you. Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30441	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I ask Mrs. Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. The acquisition of candidate country status in the European Union and the date of the start of the negotiations opened up for Croatia the possibility of using pre-accession and structural funds of the European Union which we know are very favourable. As representative of Slavonia, I am interested in regional and county development programmes and projects adopted by the European Union that would open up the possibility of new employment. I therefore ask, what are the specific conditions for farmers, craftsmen, entrepreneurs and others to be able to participate in the use of those funds already in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30442	Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30443	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. As regards the adaptation of units of local administration and self-government to respect European standards, the process of decentralisation of European integration is also of utmost importance in the context of the use of pre-accession assistance for local development projects and the creation of new jobs. In this respect, local authorities and self-government themselves must take further steps in terms of establishing institutional capacity, i.e. a project implementation unit and other organisations, or other bodies within the framework of local administration and self-government, and human empowerment and education of people working in the process. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of European Integration will, in turn, provide all necessary logistical and strategic assistance to make the process as effective as possible. Thus, the European Integration Ministry has very specific education programmes at local levels, including individual farmers, craftsmen and other persons in which to participate in project cycles, how to prepare for pre-accession funds and such. That program will continue to develop. We are also planning a two-day consultation with the county presidents to see where the problems need to be further discussed. Information on assistance can be found on the website of the Ministry of European Integration, www.@. hr or can be contacted directly with the Technical Assistance Coordination Authority which will start issuing and bulletin with all concrete information on how to participate in pre-accession assistance. When it comes to concrete programmes, the criteria are different for different programmes, and I would therefore, in that sense, since I have very limited time at my disposal, offer to provide you with a written reply, but it is important that it is common to all these programmes to have quality strategic documents and quality project proposals. Therefore, in the context of pre-accession assistance, a PHAR which has its component, so-called ‘PHAR’ shall be opened. ... means cross-border cooperation which should address the existence, i.e. problems related to the existence of borders between regions. [[The speaker speaks English, he doesn't understand.]] Then ISPA aimed at environmental protection and transport. Strategic documents have already been drawn up, there are also a number of projects proposed from local level, and this will be discussed further and concrete, and what is extremely important for local communities is the SAPARD programme, which is for the area of agriculture and rural development. It will open since 2006. The forestry ministry is preparing exactly a rural development plan to discuss this with local administration and self-government units in order to take their needs into account as much as possible. Finally, I also point out that on the website of the Ministry of European Integration there is a database on the existing assistance not only for pre-accession but also for donor assistance. We have asked local administration and self-government units to name people who will be in charge of this website, that database introduce their concrete project proposals, so that we as a ministry help local administration and self-government and in this sense maintain regular consultations with donors in Croatia and report everything that happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30444	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30445	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank Mrs. Secretary, and I am pleased with the answer. And just as my colleague Šišljagic proposed the organisation of the stands, so here I would agree with the professional people where it is possible to organise the stands to meet potential users of these funds. And as in Osijek, in the Chamber of Commerce, you held a very successful stands, I invite you and your associates to Požega-Slavon County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30446	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament allow us to interrupt the current morning for a moment. The amendments to the agenda have been established, continuing with the current morning. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30448	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Prime Minister. I would like to ask Mr. Sanader the Prime Minister or Mr. Mlinaric the Minister of the Interior. Somewhere around Christmas, 27. If I'm not mistaken, it happened in Kumrovec, I'll call it the ritual destruction of the monument to Josip Broz Tito. To this day I haven't read anywhere in public that the perpetrators of that misdemeanor have been caught. The question is clear whether or not something is going to happen in this matter, or if it will end in the end as the destruction of the tomb of national heroes in Zagreb, if I am not mistaken in 2001 or with the destruction of nearly 3,000 monuments to the NOB during this period from 91 to 99. I said it was the ritual destruction of the monument to Joseph Broz Tito. The message is that, and that happened in late 2004 by my court more to the government than to the NOB fighters. And that's why, first of all, we should all be very motivated to punish the perpetrators, because if we get to them, we'll come to the monument destroyers for the folk heroes in Zagreb, that is, through that and to someone else. Finally, it is the destruction and destruction of the symbols that were written about abroad as much as about the recently completed presidential elections, because it is clear to all of us here that there was no Tito, NOB, never Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, Međimurje, Baranja, etc. would not be part of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30449	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30450	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, I will make it very clear that our position has been condemned by the government by the strongest act of vandal destruction of the monument to Josip Broz Tito in Kumrovec. The government has made it very clear that another one, I think we in Croatia should stop dealing with the past together and turn to the future. Antifascism is based not only on modern Europe, but also on modern Croatia. And I agree with you and there is this historic decision from 43rd on the accession of Istria and other parts of the Matika of Croatia. These are uncontested values and there is no doubt about it. Unfortunately, however, Croatia, which has been the victim of its historical divisions through history, must bear this burden today, and I suggest that in Croatia politics, in the Croatian public, we leave discussions on the past to scientists, historians, those who want to discuss it, and that in Croatian politics, all public workers in the Croatian public turn to the future, to fight for Croatian people, for a better standard, to join the European Union, which will guarantee us a better standard and safety of Croatia. We also encouraged the initiative to adopt in Croatia or amend the Penal Code or a special law, which would prohibit the expanse of all totalitarian regimes. When we said that, we had in mind the fact that antifascism is not equal to communism. And that the difference between antifascism and communism is important. Antifascism to be very simple. Antifascism yes, communism no. And that is why we have called for one broad public debate of the social debate, we have called on one number of intellectuals, public workers who participated and wanted to participate in the adoption of one such legal proposal or one amendment in the Penal Code, but there is no doubt that antifascism is worth modern Europe and the value of modern Croatia. Therefore, this year will also mark the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism in which Croatia will participate, and it is likely that both the Parliament and the Government will be formed and perhaps the Joint Committee, we leave it to the initiative of both the Parliament and the Government, I will not talk about it too soon. But Croatia will join the celebration of the world and Europe in the 60th anniversary of victory over fascism.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30451	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30452	I am pleased with the prime minister's and Croatian government's attitude in anti-fascism. But I wasn't talking about the past, this isn't just about the past, this is about the crime, this is about the destruction of the monument of Josip Broz Tito's terrorism, it's about banditism, it's about endangering the safety of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. I want to believe that the government is doing everything, that the perpetrators are being punished. I am unhappy on the other hand that they are still as free as you, as the entire government as all parliamentary representatives and normal people of the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid those people who did it are abroad today. And I'm glad... In the same way, all reasonable people in the Republic of Croatia are condemned. [[because of the bell at the president's table, the speaker doesn't understand]] But I'd like to know where it came from in the investigation? Is there anything about this and when we're going to get to the unsub? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30453	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic. One question to one member of the government. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. The answer as it is, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30454	Mr. President of the Parliament, I'm asking Minister Vukelic. Mr. Minister, after many years of disabled people in Croatia have been neglected in various ways, and particularly difficult for them on the labour market. Finally, in late 2003, as we know in this House, we passed the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. It meant the beginning of hope for thousands of people with disabilities in this country, for faster and better employment, and thus a better quality of life for those of our fellow citizens? This also meant a chance for the viability of the disabled and the protection workshops for professional rehabilitation of disabled people. We set up the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund for people with disabilities and secured them for 2004. 24 million kuna. By budget rebalancing this amount of truth reduced to 18 million and 810 thousand kuna. However, Mr. Minister, none of these 18 million 810 thousand kunas have been found disabled in this country. I'm asking you, do you consider yourself responsible for this scandalous shortfall of money needed by the law of secure money? How do you justify and explain this inadmissible violation of the law and what you've done to prevent it from happening?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30455	Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30456	Thank you very much. There's no question of any responsibility either to counter-zealous work or to the government or to this ministry. As you yourself have said to a respected parliamentary representative, in late 2003 the Law was passed, in mid-2004 I would say a technical assumption so that the Administrative Council, the statute of the Fund was adopted and in the autumn of 2004 was also defined by the budget of that fund and the purpose of spending the funds. The fact is that in the last year 2004, over 20 million kunas of rebalancing were spent only 9 million kunas. So, they failed to spend all the funds, because first of all, and because the fund did not have all those acts and opportunities to function in some way from the beginning of the year, there were no other assumptions that would be created here very soon at the beginning of this year, and these are amendments and additions to the Fund Act that passed the Economic Social Council, conditions were created to go to the Government and thus also to the Parliament. These amendments to the Fund Act will, in fact, create assumptions that the funds foreseen for this year can be spent for those purposes and for those purposes, as was the aim of setting up that fund. But I want to say that in these nine million kunas of funds that have been spent that these funds have gone for the purpose and in the interest of the needs of the disabled, because here I can also read this amount for co-financing of the programme... the employment of persons with disabilities and subsidies to legal entities registered for rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, so... The facility received a million and 800,... [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Zagreb 2.1 million kuna, "Uriho" Zagreb 3,95 million kuna, "Teko Nova Pula" 500 thousand kuna and "Des" from Split 650 thousand kuna. So with these amendments to the laws that are before the Government, and thus before the Parliament, we will be able to fully implement the funds in the fund this year and direct them precisely to the goal in which they should be and that is, above all, as you yourself have said in the interest of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30457	Mr. Minister, I have no information that the nine million have come, just before Christmas they're here, as you know protested by employees... Although that money, even in that truck version as it was in the Department of Defense, went away the last day of the year, I'm happy with that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm afraid it's not acceptable enough for disabled people in this country to justify that it took a year for a prepared, done job, not to be realised with the money you had in the budget. And it's not true in seven months, but he was, uh, at nine months, already in the budget at seven months.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30458	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30459	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Prime Minister a question. I know that you know, Prime Minister, I know that you know what sublaws the government brings, and I also believe that Mr Ministers also know what all sublaws are being brought by them, but I would like to warn you of one fact that has been repeated continuously through all governments so far, and so on to this government. All sublegal acts, all regulations, all regulations and all that the ministers bring, which the government brings, are brought with a lag or are not brought at all. So, I'm going to mention just a few, let's say the Health Care Act, the Minister of Health should have brought in 17 regulations, the Minister of Zanity should have brought in one, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute should have brought in two and a Croatian Institute of Mental Health one. Their deadline was February 6, 2004. Also, another law, it is the Social Care Act where the government made two decisions with a month delay, the Law on Measurement, where the Director of the Institute should have made the rules and made it with a month behind. The road safety law of the 29th Regulation has not been passed within the legal time limit. You know, I believe you know it's not law enforcement. We expect our citizens to implement the law and that would also be a confirmation that Parliament does what it does to government. I know it hasn't been that practice before. However, I ask you what you will do to correct this practice because it creates a huge break in legislation and this creates both the issue of constitutionality and these subsequent regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30460	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30461	Mr. Representative, it is true that there are delays in certain resolutions regarding the adoption of sublegal acts. However, this information that you have is not entirely accurate because I don't know how long you've had that information, and it is certain that all ministers and I will vouch for it within the time limit provided for by law will also bring legal acts. I must say, however, that this is a phase in which Croatia is approaching the European Union and that, of course, it encourages and, of course, encourages faster work in the adoption of sublegal acts, but it also makes it difficult to work on the basis of the fact that it is better to bring the sublegal act into line with the legal acts of the European Union than to adopt it and we are obliged to comply with our legislation with the Union, and it is the ministers who have decided, and this is the reason for the delay in some adoption of sublegal acts that some ministers have decided to examine and comply with the legislation of the European Union, with what is called the Aki Commissioner with the acquis of the European Union, and I have to say this requirement for a little longer than if we are to adopt subleg acts without comparison and without consulting of the legal gain of the European Union. So, on the one hand, approaching the Union is an incentive for all of us to accept these legal gains, but on the other hand, it takes a little longer to compare all the legislation and all the legal gains with our sublegal acts to be passed according to how tomorrow, when we start negotiations or within a year, we would not have to change those sublegal acts. So, it's exactly what you said, not about so many of the absences of these acts but it's about ministers and government as a whole wanting, when preparing sublegal acts to consult in advance what it is... in the Union so we don't have to change those sublaws tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30462	Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30463	I'm not satisfied with the answer for one reason that mostly the government is proposing the laws that we adopt here in the Parliament. And the government comes with deadlines that are either expendable or not feasible. If you feel that something within a certain period cannot be spent, take a bigger time. But I must warn you that what I said was true because it was downloaded from the government's website last night. As for this second one, the question of the constitutionality of the delay in the adoption of the rules is raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30464	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30465	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Croatia is the only country in Europe that has not doubled the number of its inhabitants over the past 100 years, and we are all smaller and older. The reproductive health of both men and women is increasingly at risk. And on the other hand, we have experts, world-class experts on the medically assisted insemination plan. This Law, or draft law, has been under way for many years, has been done by these very prominent experts, and during the coalition government it has been accepted by these experts of the grant, installation, so in such a proposal of law and donations of egg cells. So the law is over, the ministry has provided it, handed it over to the government, it's been presented to the government and since then this bill of law has lost track of everything. The only thing to conclude is that it reached the index of librerum prohibitorum. So I'm wondering if you're aware of whether or not you're carrying and accepting that part of the responsibility in the government for all of those possible abuses that can just happen because of the non-adjudication of the Law on the damage suffered by our women because it is precisely because such a situation has to go abroad and ultimately we support the anti-constitutional state of equality of men and women. Or you agree with that theory, that is, those theories which, because of the law, began to spread rapidly to Croatia, so that the quasi theories that children were born of medically assisted fertilization are actually things and that they dream of some kind of white people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30466	State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Veljko Bozikov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30467	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and gentlemen of MPs, I also share with you the fact that the Croatian people did not have such rapid growth as some countries which had much better circumstances in their recent history and which had a rapid economic upheaval and growth and yet some have failed to develop their talent as well. They also have a problem, although they are in developed economic parts of the world and Europe. As for this law that... For which you ask of the aided insemination, this is indeed the law that has been completed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's still working on it. There is still a need for some harmonisation with the laws of the European Union to... get not too avant-garde, not too conservative, but the administration of a moderate law that corresponds to our people's feelings, cultural, ethical, and in the name of our people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30468	I'm not happy with the answer because it's not true. I'm very embarrassed to argue here, Mr. Secretary of State, because it's not worthy of one state official not to tell the truth. All our citizens under the law are obliged to speak the truth to state authorities. Only truth is tolerated to the defendants. You've actually sent a message with this to our citizens, just such citizens that you don't care about them. That you don't care about the personal and family tragedies that this very part of our citizens' population is experiencing. And right now I'm holding you responsible, we're keeping you here responsible for that unhappiness of yours at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30469	Fellow Members Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, it is not appropriate, you have asked as a representative a parliamentary question. The secretary of state answered. You now, publicly do it... It may be true, but you can't publicly accuse him of lying and telling the truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's not correct. We are, we have a degree of correctness, but it's not correct. Please don't. Your Honor, Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30470	I thank you, Mr. President. I'm referring the question to Mr. Prime Minister. A reform of electoral legislation has been announced. Can you tell us which direction it is going to go, or is it planning to solve some open and unedited issues? The issue of the voting rights of the so-called diaspora, or Croats who live and make up the constituent people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Permanent election commissions. Registration of minority voters and finally financing an election campaign. The presidential elections just concluded have shown all the illogicalness in this area. Citizens who live and work in Croatia, by Croatian laws, pay taxes and maintain this state justifiably consider it a completely insane system that allows those who are never and will never live in Croatia to have the last and deciding voice of who will act in Croatia or who will adopt the rules by which they will live in Croatia. The international community and the Croatian civilian scene "Gong" have been talking for several years about the need to establish a permanent electoral commission. Although the President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Crnic advocates this idea for the time being has not yet been realised. In its 2003 report, the OSCE cited the lack of a permanent electoral commission as the first lack of electoral reform in Croatia. The international organisation "Freedom House" also quoted it as saying in its report on transition countries. It is also a recommendation from the Venice Commission from the meeting in Zagreb. The existing regulation does not provide for a corrective instrument to ensure that the number of minority voters is determined before the local elections are held. It is prescribed that, before each election, the number shall be determined by the representative body of the unit in which minority members are entitled to an adequate representation in that body. However, if it does not do so, it is intended to do so only by a newly elected body, which brings a lot of confusion into this area,...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30471	Ask a question, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30472	Not to mention the cost increases. Let me finish. I suggest you consider that if you don't do it...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30473	Madam representative, your time is up. Ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30474	So please respond quite specifically, not in general. Does the government think to settle these issues until the local elections? How does he plan to get rid of them? And if he doesn't intend to solve them, what are the obstacles to doing so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30475	Thank you very much. ... Here you go, Mr. President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30476	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs, as you know, the Government does not pass the laws, but brings the Croatian Parliament. The government can put forward a bill and propose amendments and additions to the electoral legislation. So the question of what the government is thinking is about to do is addressed to the prime minister, but I think the question is what more should be addressed to the Croatian Parliament. Are we going to adopt or not amend electoral legislation? And I'll tell you our position in the government about all the questions you've asked. First of all, we are aware and should not quote the OSCE, we are aware of these facts that we would need a permanent state election commission. Croatia is the only country in which the Supreme Court is a state electoral commission. It's a fact and we're aware of it. That's what the President of the Supreme Court and I have been talking about for the past few months. I asked him that given the closeness of the presidential elections as well as the local elections, we do not change it yet this time because I think it would be illogical that 4 months or 5, but it was also in the last year before the presidential elections, to change especially that the State Election Commission led the Supreme Court President well done its job in all the elections so far. However, there is a need for a permanent electoral commission, professionally independent of any political strings, and we are ready absolutely after the local elections to launch the initiative. So I think this State Election Commission should do more local elections. If we didn't go back now, applying to change because I don't think that, if we had to think this through and make a good decision, we'd find the criteria for who those members would be? That they need to be provided with logistics. So they're always offices, and so on, and they're a body independent of politics, and they're making elections for everything. As for the diaspora votes, I agree with you that there is a dispute in Croatia over the vote of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope there is no dispute over the votes of Croats in the diaspora emigration. Because, but also one question before I move on to the subject of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It should be very clear here. According to the Croatian Constitution, an equal citizen of Croatia lived in the center of Zagreb in Ilica, lived on the north pole or lived in Mostar. It is simply a matter of constitutional equality of all Croatian citizens and cannot, no one can tell me. I've lived and I know and West, there are some countries that have different, but more and more countries introduce the right to vote for diaspora. I agree with you, of course, that the Croats in BiH are not diaspora, but that they are a constitutional, equal, sovereign people, but how will we resolve the issue of constitutional equality of all citizens before the Constitution? That's a big question. And it can't be, it just can't be allowed to be a tax issue like some people these days have problems with it and it's thematicalizing whether you pay taxes in Croatia? You can vote. Since when, I have been asking a nice question of paying taxes, the foundation and the principle on which to vote. If someone is a citizen of a country, then they are entitled to the Constitution if there is one exception and that may be something to work on. And this is a joint bilateral agreement between the two countries on dual citizenship. We and I will encourage an initiative to discuss Bosnia and Herzegovina's leadership, to go to the signing of a dual citizenship agreement where these issues could also be resolved. And the third, when you mentioned the abode. I think it's absolutely necessary to insist on her residence, time's up? And good, in all these things, and in the dwelling place, and in this regard, is there any resident in the dwelling place, or is he only declared in the dwelling place?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30477	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30478	I thank you, Mr. President. I'd just, I wouldn't be having this controversy about whether it's code, whether it has the right to vote someone who's a constituent people in another country. That's what I think requires another debate in this big house. And as for the residence I didn't mention, but simply because I haven't had time, I would like to mention it since it's exactly areas of special state concern, where, as you know, no houses and facilities have been returned to today to the exiles and the people who have left this country, as neither the tenants have been returned. Well, you know, often they have their own residences at another address, or home address, and they still haven't been able to get back to that house, so they're staying with relatives, friends, so they're staying at a neighboring address. So, uh... It's not exactly the best way to talk and write about it today, but there will be opportunities in this House. [[You can't hear the phone.]] I would still like to ask a written answer to this parliamentary question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30479	Thank you very much. It is time to ask a representative question, dear colleague Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I refer the question to the Minister of Agriculture, Peter Cobankovic. Dear Mr. Minister, until a few days ago in pre-election time, we read messages about how successful and paid wheat was. We all know that wheat was paid at a price of 1 kuna for a kilo of peasants, or when we refused the cost of the ransom, it was about 95 limes. How successful a job it was for the government, we find out these days when you announced the sale of the same wheat, but at the price of kuna and 20 limes by 1 kilo or 25% higher price than the one paid to the peasants. This will make the state more than 75 million kuna through the price difference between bought-out and sold-out wheat and on the burden of peasants. Thanks to such an increase in the price of wheat, bakers announce an increase in the price of bread by half a kuna per 1 kilogram. At the same time, this high price of wheat in the production of pasta, cakes, cookies and similar products will make Croatian producers completely uncompetitive on the domestic market, and they cannot even think about exporting. Mr. Minister, do you still think last year's wheat buy is a successful job? Do you think it is moral for a Croatian peasant to pay for the wheat 95 lip per kilogram and after only 6 months it is sold for kuna and 20 limes or at 25% higher price, earning 75 million kuna and causing an increase in the price of bread by half kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30481	Thank you very much. The word has been made by Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for this matter. I mean, I'm afraid I have to defuse you in the good part. First of all, in the price of wheat paid to farmers is the average price paid to farmers is kuna and 2 June, based on quality standards. The second thing, the cost of receiving wheat and all the other costs of 40 kuna per tonne were, they did not go to the burden of peasants, but were the cost of the state. And according to this, the price of wheat is not increased by 25% but simply calculated on the basis of the real and existing costs that any other warehouse or wheat purchaser had as well. And I would also like to point out that I still believe that it is an extremely good job, a job that is in a good, correct and fair way done, where there has been no problem in harvesting, nor in accepting or paying for the wheat, where the wheat is paid, and there will also be no problems, absolutely no problems with the sale and distribution of wheat. Because this is the real price where they include only existing costs, and in order for that to be the case, I must remind you of the government's decision as well. When the government went into this business, where it says exactly how the price of wheat will be formed in sales. In addition, it says in point 8: "the purchased mercantile wheat of the genus 2004 cannot be marketed on the domestic market at a price lower than the kuna, increased by the costs set out in points 5, 6 and 7.". So for all those costs that were followed by this wheat, it's not any new cost, but it's the regular costs that all the other buyers and all the ones who stored and bought the wheat. So there is no basis, dear friend and respected Mr. Representative, and there is no concern that this price will be a reason for increasing the price of bread and that it will create incompetence for any other sector of the Croatian food industry because it is an extremely real price. I also want to get to know you that the current price of wheat is on the market where the wheat is marketed, that it moves between kuna and 22 lipes to kuna and 25 limes. I also want to get to know you that there have been attempts by certain individuals who have been trying to import wheat. We, as a democratic and free-market state, have not defended anyone, but I want to know that the price of this imported wheat is more expensive than the price and that it moves around the price, around the kuna and 25 limes. So this is a real cost-based price. I can even set you up with all those expenses. ... No, no, this is the price without VAT, I think. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So if you need me to specify, but I can also answer you in writing and send a complete specification from which you will see all the costs that are included. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30483	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30484	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30485	Thank you. Comrade Pacek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course I'm not satisfied with the answer and the minister failed to convince me that the real price is to buy 1 kuna from the peasants and sell it per kuna and 20. And he couldn't convince me that he wouldn't collect the price of bread and that the uncompetitive would be pasta producers, cakes, cookies and all that. Mr. Minister, if something is more expensive at the entrance to production, of course it will disrupt all other relationships. This model is bad. The price will be paid by peasants who, by the way, are reduced and the price of incentives from a thousand and 600 to a thousand and 200 kuna. And of course, citizens will pay it through the price of bread. The only way they're going to profit is through this price difference, you're going to charge 75 million kuna. Mr. Minister, it would be fair of that difference in price which is unwarrantedly high to divide some of the peasants and try to deprive them of this low price wheat of 1 kuna amortize and also...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30487	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30488	...this drop in premiums from a thousand 600 to a thousand and 200 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30489	I refer my question to Minister Calmeta. Dear Ministers, contrary to the Prime Minister's promise to speed up the construction of a fast road, the separation of Gradec-Križevci-Koprivnica-Gova and that in the term of this government, the section will be completed until Koprivnica, in the Programme for the Construction and Maintenance of Public Roads for the period 2005 to 2008 not that the funds for the construction of the partition are not foreseen but that separation has been erased in general from the Programme. My question is, what are you going to do to make this promise come true, and that really fast road, the Gradec-Križevci-Koprivnica separation, is made by 2008?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30490	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30491	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen representatives. As is known at the last session last year, the government adopted a plan for building and maintaining public roads, including state roads and highways in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And when it comes to state roads, and that's what we're talking about here today, and the question that Mr. MP asked, then I have to say that in this four-year period, so in the program that the government has accepted in relation to the last four-year period that 55% of the funding is being invested more in the construction of state roads than it was in the last four-year period, it's somewhere, something over 8 billion kuna. While we were working on this plan and the program we contacted all counties and can practically say that all wishes from all counties are generally accepted and that they are embedded in this programme. That's how this is about what we're talking about right now, and it's about the fast road to Saint Helena-Vrbovec-Gradac. We're building this fast road now, it's being built and it seems to me somewhere about 15 kilometers long and it's going to be built into about 330 million kunas. So, one very big investment. In parallel, it is planned and complete preparatory documentation is being made for this section from Gradec via Križevci to Koprivnica, which is somewhere I think about 40 kilometers, maybe a little less debt, and we plan to spend it on building about half a billion kuna, maybe a little less. So it's just as you can see about very large funds. As soon as this preparation is completed, as soon as all project documentation is completed, we will also start to realize the construction of the project, so from the launch of the public tender, and more and more as follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30492	Comrade Mršić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30493	So instead of showing satisfaction, I will make an appeal to you and the Prime Minister to really do everything to continue to build a fast road from Gradec to Križevci and Koprivnica and solve the traffic isolation of Koprivnica-Kryzevci County, which according to the data has one vehicle per two and a half inhabitants, which is the highest average almost after Zagreb in the Republic of Croatia. And you know we don't have a fast road, we don't even have a good fast road. Therefore, I ask you and I appeal that you do everything possible to separate part of the funds that the Koprivnica-Kryzevnik County taxpayers have to pay both from the toll base and from the basic gas compensation for the construction of a fast road towards the Križevci and Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30494	Thank you very much, dear colleague Mršić. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in accordance with Article 189 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I would like to inform you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not delivered an answer within the prescribed time limit to the representative's question, Mršić, and I would like to ask that the reply be delivered within eight days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has not delivered an answer within the prescribed deadline to the representative of Sreka Ferenček, please also submit the reply within eight days. The Ministry of Justice did not provide an answer within the prescribed time limit to the representative's question, Nenad Stazic, I would also ask that the answer be delivered within eight days. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the government, Mr. Prime Minister is currently finished in the morning, thank you very much. Resume work in 15 hours and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30495	Gentlemen, let's proceed with the session. Under the agreement, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister first, Ivo Sanader submits an opening statement on the negotiating process on the principles of the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30496	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me in some indications to state the government's position on this topic, which is extremely important for all of us in Croatia, which is Croatia's accession to the European Union. Before I quote a few arguments that we believe that Croatia is on a good path when preparing to join the European Union, and I think that the time ahead will need to be used to talk to our public about this very, very transparent and very open about all the issues that are being asked and interested in Croatian citizens because entering the European Union certainly brings a lot of good, positive and valuable benefits to Croatia. Of course, there are also topics that need to be discussed openly, which will be on the agenda for the next two and a half years as far as we think it might take to negotiate with the European Union. I personally believe that Croatia's entry into the European Union will mean closing that port that we started with the creation of an independent, sovereign democratic Republic of Croatia, with its international recognition, and this process should be concluded by entering the most advanced association of the Western world, the European Union. The countries which today are 25, and very nearly 27 and Croatia could be 28, is therefore an association that has a significant impact on the future of the European continent, on our common future. It is about the association of countries where Croatia should also be heard and our word, to start with political reasons. Not to wait outside the door to decide what places we are interested in, so maybe indirectly about us, but to be at the table, at the conference table in the hall where we decide on a common European future. We must be aware that we are now practically an integral part of modern Western civilization with all its advantages and weaknesses and that we are entering a process that should end in the process of full membership in the European Union. For the sake of protection and provision, for the protection of both national and national interests and promotion, in the best way, they can also be promoted by Croatia's entry into the European Union, we believe that the provision of better life also falls within the promotion of national and state interests and we believe that in the negotiation process we will also have the opportunity to negotiate, negotiate for us the benefits that can be negotiated and that we will be able to defend. Of course, in the negotiation process, we should be aware that we are negotiating with 25 countries and that on the other hand there will be a strong negotiating team that will insist on applying everything that has been accepted in 25 countries, an important, important part of the negotiating team's work will be the very exceptions to which we will insist, as other countries have done. What are the political benefits of Croatia entering the European Union? The increased stability and security that is of paramount importance for a country that has a recent experience of war behind it. Inclusion in a stable political and economic environment contributes significantly to economic and social development. Participation in EU decision-making will allow for the representation of Croatian interests on the occasion of the decision-making process. Improving and strengthening Croatia's reputation and international position and increasing our country's negotiating opportunities as part of global arrangements are also in favour. It should be pointed out from the economic advantage that it is about access to a large market of over 450 million people today and that adaptations to European standards will allow for raising the quality of Croatian products and competitiveness on the world market. Easier access to capital, better access to knowledge and new technologies through participation in different joint programmes. It is also possible to use funds for regional development and for agriculture, fisheries, etc. the cohesion fund. As a candidate, we can also use pre-accession funds. We've been using pre-accession funds since this year, ISPA, FARE, SAPART next year. Over the next two years, we expect a circus of EUR 245 million of grants. I repeat, therefore, it is not about credits which would increase external debt but rather about grants from the European Union funds. This means that for as much as we get funds from the Union that we will spend less on our State budget and that we do not need to spend on those areas to which the funds from these funds will apply. The potential for the development of transport infrastructure related to trans-European networks, which certainly means inducing further development of areas where these corridors pass, is the next benefit of our entry into the Union. All our entrepreneurs are open to great opportunities to participate in all public procurement tenders within the Union. The experience of earlier enlargements shows that membership in the Union also attracts direct foreign investment that can be an important cornerstone of development. When it comes to education and science, the EU is increasing the possibility of education especially for younger generations whose ability to study or train in the Union will be far more accessible. And many students from other European countries will come to Croatia and Croatian higher education institutions and in terms of student exchange. Young Croatian citizens will complement their knowledge in Croatia with knowledge in other countries and will also gain the experience we will need in further adapting our country and catching the standards of other European advanced countries. The adaptation of Croatian legislation and the introduction of new modern procedures into all segments of the state administration, so when it comes to reforming the state administration and the judiciary of Croatia, we work in Croatia primarily for our own sake, but in this respect the EU is an invaluable source of knowledge and serves us as a trainer who achieves the best possible results as soon as possible. Better consumer protection, higher standards, environmental protection, public health, labour protection, social policy, better protection of external borders will be ensured, for example improved opportunities to strengthen crime prevention, illegal trade and so on. So these are some of the direct benefits we have from joining the Union, but I'd go back to what's on everyone's heart. Through our Croatian history, we have had difficult periods. We have had a difficult history and we know how important it is to be inside security and political associations such as the European Union and later NATO. That's not what we're talking about today, and that's not the point. I therefore believe that the fact that there is a broad consensus in Croatia around this, this foreign policy priority means that we do not need to spend much on political recommendations about it if there is an agreement. Secondly, it means that we can achieve a much stronger negotiating position in negotiations with the Union because the awareness on the other hand that there is a homogeneous team on this side that will represent Croatia's common interest in the main negotiating chapters, where we will need to get some, some exceptions, transitional periods will be a very important argument and an important, important quality in the negotiations. Finally, the European Union is certainly not an ideal society. And she has her own problems. It will already be the first in the ongoing exam, during the next two years when the European Constitution will go to ratification in individual countries. But ladies and gentlemen Croatia stands before the election to be in that group of countries that are aware that there are problems in association, in integration. But it is also aware that only in this way can Europe be an important world factor in the world that will be significantly marked, with two or three superpowers. Both the European Union and Europe, a united common integrated Europe, must be a factor both in political and global terms. And it doesn't matter if we stay out of this process isolated in the Balkans or if we join the process. According to the information and reactions we received and followed for the last year for two days, everyone sees an example of where to go from our southeastern neighbourhood in Croatia. And they take both Croatia and for example, and if you want to motivate and adapt and reform in their countries. On this occasion, as Prime Minister, I would like to thank the previous government. On what she did at the accession of Croatia to the European Union. This government continued in one trip to get to the door in April was Avi in June candidate status in December date of the start of negotiations. In order not to remain ideally, I will say that day but still for the very beginning of the negotiations on 17 March, which was announced and which we once again confirmed in the commission yesterday and the day before yesterday in the talks with the leading people of the commission by President Barroso, Vice-President Ferfeugen, Commissioner for Enlargement Olli Rehn, Commissioner Benite Ferrero Valner, Javier Solana, and so on in all talks, it was once again pointed out that Croatia must meet those political conditions among which the only known remains is the issue of full co-operation with The Hague in the case of General Gotovina. I think, however, that regardless of the path we have set out to achieve the agreement of important political factors in Croatia, the only way is the right path. The European Union, ladies and gentlemen, will be the success of all of us and will be the success of all Croatian citizens when we enter it and when the Croatian citizens turn themselves in for it. The results of the negotiations and the responsibility that negotiations will take place will be borne together. That's one important quality, and that's what I'm saying here. With all our political differences, with everything that makes us different and in which we will compete politically, we are all trying together in Croatia the subject of the European Union to roar outside the political game. And I think that's one quality. We also rejected the president of the SDP and I yesterday's speculation on the subject of the big coalition. I don't think any attempt to cooperate on important national issues should speculate on the political implications of this. It is simply a matter of great cooperation we remain political competitors, political rivals on all other issues. But we keep the European Union to pay off and it makes it important to raise her out of the day-to-day political game. All those who will not be interested in it will probably interpret it in another way. I mean, me and this pay phone is worth the full and multiple cooperation on this plan. Because it is that what we have negotiated in these two and a half years, if we can conclude negotiations in 2007 it will be important to determine our status within the Union in the future. As we negotiate, it will be practically the status of all of us throughout Croatia of all Croatian citizens. And it is worth it in this segment to rise above each other's political rivalries, and try to reach consensus or, to determine the strongest negotiating teams that will achieve the best result for Croatia. Realising that we will not achieve ideal solutions in individual chapters, but that this will be the result of a compromise where both sides will have to give in. We have therefore also proposed and I welcome the work team's work team's work group's completion and this document we have proposed and we have proposed at our meetings to bring the Croatian Parliament's declaration on the principles of the negotiation process. A joint statement by the Parliament and the Government, because the government is in charge of the negotiations as executive authority. But dialogue between the government and parliament is always good. We have taken the case and the example of Hungary as we have taken some other solutions from other countries. I believe that's a good thing, and we've suggested it's already in the materials. And to have the national committee equal to the number of opposition representatives and parliamentary majority. With the ones on the outside. And that the president of that National Committee should be of opposition. That's what we wanted, it was my original proposal, so we just wanted to show really that here we shouldn't attribute to either side or the government or the opposition or the pluses or the minuses, but that together we carry this heavy burden. But responsiblely, this is a big challenge. We must open ourselves to this challenge, because the alternative would be the closure of Croatian isolation, Croatia remains on the balcony, I am convinced. Therefore, knowing that this is a historic period that all together planted this high house must bear also with the Government, I with full optimism with confidence and faith in all of us go into these negotiations. And I thank you for your willingness to all parliamentary parties to reach agreement on this subject. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30497	Thank you, Prime Minister. I would like the Minister of European Integration and the Head of State's delegation for negotiations with the European Union, Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, to submit one review of a report on the negotiation process.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30498	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is an extraordinary honor for me today to speak before the Croatian Parliament about all the national projects that are the negotiations on the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. At the very end of last year, during the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Europeans were not very dynamic, we received a date for opening negotiations. This closes a major chapter in relations with the European Union, and opens a new chapter on 17 March this year. Dynamically and demandingly equally responsibly as all the external political and diplomatic efforts we have made to convince the European Union that we deserve that date. It is up to all of us to justify this trust to the Union and to ourselves on 17 March. Often, there is a question in the public what are negotiations on what is actually being negotiated. Let me answer these questions right away. The Republic of Croatia wants to achieve the goal of membership in the European Union. Membership carries rights, but also obligations. In one way and another, Croatia is undergoing adaptation processes to the European Union's value legal, economic and social system. This system is divided into 36 thematic vernaculars, each of which carries at least a minimum of standards to which the future member must meet. Some of these standards will be financially but institutionally demanding. Croatia will be expected to participate equally and responsibly in decision-making within the European Union's common policies. For example, it is a common agricultural or regional policy of environmental protection, and so on. The legality of these policies must also become our legality. We must prepare properly for them. Both the financial and the ability to implement not only the obligations but also the rights that we will have. What are we going to negotiate? We will negotiate the conditions that we must meet before entering the European Union. on how to take over and apply the legal property of the European Union. The legal gains of the European Union or achi communitaire have been created over decades on the basis of the compromise of the Member States. THE content of it cannot be negotiated but must be taken as such. At the same time, the acquis of the European Union is a living process which is irrevocable and which will be permanently present as an obligation, with the difference that tomorrow as a member of the European Union we will participate in creating Union rules on our own, maintaining our national interests and legal expertise. However, we can and will negotiate on how to bring legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, the measures of observation, implementation and dynamics of this legislation. In those areas that will require a longer period of time to establish full application of European rules in Croatian reality, we can agree transitional periods as additional periods for the gradual alignment with the acquis and after entry into membership. It is therefore important to make a decision in time on issues that are particularly important to us because the basis of the negotiations is a compromise. We'll get somewhere, and maybe we'll lose a little. It is an important ratio, but the ratio is the result of rationalising all such issues and focusing on the interests that we jointly decide are those we want to defend. The experiences of 10 new members are very valuable to us, but the transitional measures approved in the past enlargement do not necessarily create a precedent for future accession negotiations. In addition, let me share with you the experience of my colleagues in the new Member States. Their recommendation is don't let as many transitional periods as possible be your goal in itself. This is not a measure of the quality of your level of readiness for membership in the Union. It is only a sign that there is no clear perception of truly vital priorities and the unpreparedness of handling with full membership. However, it is necessary to negotiate those transitional periods which are necessary and aimed at protecting and promoting the Croatian economy and raising the standards of Croatian citizens. A large part of the process of streamlining priorities as well as creating future negotiating positions will help us to have a previous phase in the negotiations, i.e. "screening". The "Screening" discussed by the main negotiator, Mr. Drobnjak, is described in detail as an analysis and an assessment of the degree of compliance of national regulations with European Union regulations. At the moment that, in cooperation with the European Commission, we submit our legislation to a full comparison with all applicable Union rules, we will get two clear pictures. First, a picture of how much progress we have made in the process of harmonisation of legislation, and secondly, a more realistic picture not only of what remains for further harmonisation but combined with the possibility of full implementation of what may be a problem for us to adopt and implement until the entry into full membership. In this second picture, we will be responsible for building our negotiating positions. I would particularly like to stress here that during the "screening" only problem areas are identified, and no membership criteria are negotiated. However, the "screening" procedure is extremely important because by underlining the line below each chapter we get, as I said, the basis for defining possible exceptions as well as transitional periods in future negotiating positions. At that moment, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the negotiating team and the Croatian Parliament play a responsible and crucial role. Make a firm decision, in some segments and painful, and stand behind it. Given the seriousness of the task that lies ahead of the State administration, but also beyond, because we want all those whose application of European regulations is concerned to be involved in this process, the Ministry of European Integration has begun to translate legal and sublegal acts, as well as the corresponding declarations of compliance and comparative representations of the assessment of the compliance of the rules into English. In addition, for the purposes of future "screening", the Ministry initiated the establishment of a full co-ordination mechanism, identifying the name and last name of all responsible and responsible officials and officials in the State Administration for all negotiating chapters. Only after the "screening" is completed for a particular chapter can we begin negotiations. The Republic of Croatia will be expected to make and present its negotiating position first. On the other hand, the European Commission, based on "screening", submits a report to the Council on possible problems during the negotiations on each chapter. On the basis of this report, the Council unanimously takes the decision to open negotiations on a particular chapter and, starting with the draft joint negotiating position proposed by the European Commission and the negotiating position of the candidate country. The opening of negotiations on a particular chapter shall begin the substantive phase of negotiations during which the conditions under which the candidate country will join the European Union, i.e. the conditions under which it will adopt, apply and implement the acquis of the Community, i.e. whether transitional periods that must be limited to time and content will be accepted. During the preparation of the joint negotiating position draft, the European Commission sets out the requirements for transitional measures in 3 types: acceptable, i.e. measures of a technical nature which do not represent significant problems, those that can be negotiated if they have a significant impact on competition or the internal market and unacceptable, requirements that pose serious problems. Where an agreement is reached on a particular area of negotiations, this chapter of the negotiations, i.e. the legal property of the Community, shall be deemed to be provisionally closed. The question arises why temporarily if the agreement is reached? As long as the Treaty of Accession is concluded, it may be reopened either because of the adoption of new rules in that area of legal property or if the candidate country fails to fulfil the obligations it has made in respect of that chapter. Even after the "screening" has been completed while the negotiations are under way can be restarted "screening" if the Union adopts a legal property which is subject to further harmonisation of legislation and may require significant financial or institutional efforts. In doing so, I must stress that we are not on our own. Croatia's pre-accession strategy has been allocated 245m euros, aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity to implement all reforms, harmonising legislation and its implementation, and will spend the most on the largest consumers, namely transport, agriculture and the environment. That is why the European Commission, starting from the European Council's conclusion, must monitor progress in harmonisation of legislation, has launched a process of monitoring negotiations. Who and how are they negotiating with the European Union? The candidate country is forming a negotiating team consisting of the head of the State delegation, the main negotiator, the deputy chief negotiator, the chief secretary of the negotiating team and members of the negotiating team in charge of each chapter. The Head of the State delegation shall be responsible for the overall course of negotiations and its communication to the Government and the Croatian Parliament, and shall also participate in political dialogue with the European Union. The main negotiator is responsible for the substantive coordination of members of the negotiating team, helping him with the secretary-general and his office. The negotiating team will be fully technicalally supported by the Ministry of European Integration and the day-to-day work. However, wanting to extend all relevant information and make it available to all the factors involved in the negotiation process, the Ministry also expressed the database for the purposes of negotiations with all the necessary information for our negotiators. At the same time, the Ministry assumes on itself the obligation of further education, necessary for successful negotiations as well as thematic seminars for our citizens at which they will be informed about the very core of the negotiations. The negotiations will formally start with the opening of a bilateral intergovernmental conference between Croatia and the Member States of the European Union and take place within a bilateral intergovernmental conference between the Member States and the candidate countries. It is now in preparation and a negotiating framework for the Republic of Croatia, to be adopted by the Council of Ministers in early February. In the negotiating framework, we expect the fundamental principles of the Union's negotiations with Croatia, co-ordination with each other, as well as technical details that will mark the next few years. On our part, Croatia will adopt a strategy for membership negotiations in the European Union, where it will stress that areas of economic importance that we want to transfer to our reality until membership, as well as areas for which we intend to seek transitional periods, which are a reflection of the desire to protect vital interests. Membership in the European Union should be an expression of the will of citizens. With the end of the negotiations, candidate countries are ready for membership, but face another challenge. A referendum on membership in which citizens express their position on the basis of an informed decision. As has been done by citizens of most other new members of the European Union, it is the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will decide to join the European Union through referendums that must be held before the Treaty of Accession or after the conclusion of the negotiations. Just the result of the negotiations on... The accession Treaty and its Appendix to Ugora on Accession, which states all exceptions and transitional periods, may be subject to a referendum and a relevant decision by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, the Government will step up activities to disseminate information on all aspects of the European Union, the process of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the consequences of full membership in the European Union. In this regard, I would like to emphasise once again the role of the National Accession Forum as well as other initiatives as well as open dialogue with all stakeholders. Joint efforts and understanding are of paramount importance for the successful completion of all preparations for the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30499	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask the main negotiator of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Vladimir Drobnjak, for a review of the negotiation process. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30500	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is my great honor to address you as the main negotiator of the Republic of Croatia in the negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union. I use this opportunity to sincerely thank all those who have supported my appointment and who show me the words of support. Negotiations that we enter into with optimism but also fully aware of their complexity and demand, their sensitivity and meaning for our homeland will be teamwork that will require the best of us, especially from the Croatian State Administration. As chief negotiator and the entire negotiating team, we are ready to take our part of the work, obligations and responsibilities. However, the number of people in Croatia who depend on the final success of accession negotiations is not measured by a dozen names, but by hundreds and hundreds. The famous Latin winged... from many things, one might best sum up which is the shortest way to success and final goal. [[The speaker speaks Latin, he doesn't understand.]] The role of the Croatian Parliament in the negotiations ahead will be of the utmost importance mainly in the segment of harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the European Union acquis communautaire whose scope is more than 80,000 pages. Accession negotiations are a complex process which has its precise rules and many dimensions of which only some fall within the policy area, and many more in the fields of legal, sublegal and administrative acts, regulations and provisions of normativeism and standardisation. The implementation of all of this is equally important as well as the adoption process, and for successful implementation as well as successful monitoring of the overall process requires a good knowledge of its essence and rules. The steps ahead of us are defined by the European Commission's strategic paper on enlargement adopted on 6 October last year. He makes it clear that the negotiations will be guided by the principle of their own achievements. The first important step already discussed by the Minister's office immediately after the official opening of the negotiations will be the formal process of examining the legislation, etc. screening to be organised by the European Commission and covered by all negotiating chapters other than two, those referred to as institutions and others. Scrining will not begin for all chapters simultaneously nor will it last equally. The scope and dynamics of scrinning will depend on the complexity of individual chapters and the size of the legal framework they cover. We will try as soon as possible to open as many screening chapters as possible after the end of which we will have a clear picture of our concrete obligations as we need to continue negotiations. Following the scrinning, the European Commission will recommend the opening of concrete negotiations in a particular chapter provided that Croatia is well prepared. The adaptation of our legislation to that Union and the effective application of this will determine the speed of negotiations. The European Commission will propose to the Council guidelines... for the transparent closure of each chapter. [[The speaker speaks in a foreign language, not understood.]] They will be set before the opening of negotiations in this chapter and may relate to legal harmonisation or to a satisfactory stage of implementation. A negotiating team with 13 negotiators and 30 working group leaders will try to negotiate as transparently as possible and whenever necessary for answers and clarifications. I, as chief negotiator, will have two offices, one in Brussels and the other in the government building on the other side of the square. Here in the upper city as part of the government will be the secretariat and expert nuclearus of the negotiating team headed by Mrs Tamara Obradovic, Secretary-General of the Negotiating Team, who will always be available to you to monitor the process of negotiations and accession to the European Union. I would like to stress that the closeness of the negotiating team to the Croatian Parliament is not only symbolic, it is also logistical, starting with the need for full cooperation and transparency of our work. How do you describe the job we're about to do? Maybe it's best to list all the areas we're going to negotiate. So I am aware that I am putting myself in danger of allowing this important moment to be filled with bureaucratic grayness to remind you of what, I am aware of many of you well know. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia will negotiate with the European Union the following areas. Freedom of movement of goods, consumer and health protection, public procurement, freedom of movement of workers, social policy and employment, right of establishment and freedom of provision of services, financial services, right of commercial society, intellectual property rights, competition and state support, entrepreneurship policy, freedom of movement of capital, economic and monetary policy, transport, telecommunications, information society, culture and audiovisual policy, trans-European networks, financial and budgetary provisions, taxes, financial supervision, customs union, statistics, regional policy, energy, environment, agriculture, food security, veterinary and phytosanitary policies, science and research, education and education, justice, freedom and security, justice and fundamental human rights, external relations, common foreign and security policy, European security and defence policy, institutions and others. So we're going to negotiate practically anything but a handball where we're already world champions, and the rest we have to negotiate. I must stress that this list is preliminary and will become final in early February when the European Commission will adopt a framework for negotiations that should then be confirmed by the Council of Ministers on 17 March. I think after this long list there's little I can add except to get to work with a lot of people who'll help me with it every day. As far as the parliamentary dimensions of the whole process are concerned, I expect that the Republic of Croatia will participate in the next European Parliament elections in 2009 as a member of the European Union. Once again, I thank everyone for their trust and for their attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30501	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, he would now propose, in accordance with Article 223(3) and in accordance with the agreement of most clubs, that in the first 6 points of the set agenda, we conduct a united debate, with representatives of clubs having an extended time of 20 minutes for discussion. If none of the club representatives are against it, then I'm keeping it adopted. We're going to a united debate, the first six points, and a club debate. The first is the club of IDS MPs, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30502	Your Honor, Mr. President and the esteemed Prime Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The first thing I'm saying is getting the date of the negotiations is a big deal. If Croatia had not received the date a month ago, that 17. 3., the question of whether Croatia would enter the European Union in this decade. Why? Well, because most likely after Croatia's entry, in fact, after Croatia every future EU entry will be confirmed at a referendum, from the referendums in one of the European Union countries. Well, maybe it won't be quite like that, except in the case of Turkey, because the referendum is expensive and clearly not reached out. But that solution will certainly be certain. I personally believe that Croatia's approach to the European Union in 2004 was conditioned by 5 obligations directly imposed by the European Union before the new Croatian government and that this government should not have given up clearly either. While external debt is $24 billion, today it is 27, when abroad you have to take loans to pay off old debts, when someone can throw you on your knees because of financial addiction, you and you have no others to cooperate with the IMF and with The Hague and other international institutions. So, what requirements did Croatia have to meet in order to get the date of the negotiations? It's primarily full of co-operation with The Hague court. It wanted to be tested I would have told the new government, and that is why Carla Del Ponte may not have wanted to submit the indictments in Zagreb in 2003, there was a change of government, and it is fortunate that today all the defendants are home, but as far as we can see. Whoever thinks he could have escaped from this obligation is naive. One who would not cooperate would not think well to the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, it is the return of refugees, i.e. the change of minority policy. Thirdly, it is a change in relations with neighbours first and foremost to the SRJ and so much should be welcomed, and I would say the prime minister's departure to Belgrade. Fourth, it's a change of attitude to history II. World War I. And that's why it's good to wipe out these Budak streets, remove the French monuments, but it's incomprehensible to still tap into the place where the destruction of the monuments to Tito is by the way I talked about this morning. Fifth, don't touch in relation to HRT. So these principles were a condition for Croatia to get the date of the negotiations. Now, as far as these resolutions are concerned, declarations, etc. are concerned. Typically ours. It's clear in all of them what we're not going to do, but there's no mention of anything we want to do. We still live as country or promoters often in the clouds. That we are God's days, that others just need to come here, leave the money, retire, and we clearly masters who have ruined so much so far that money can be managed. There's no mention of anything we're willing to do or anything, just the opposite. We don't want that, we don't want that. But when we have to share common registers, then that's where we know how to set up. But that's not how it's gonna work. The European Union is not a Swedish table. Well, I want something, I don't want something. Croatia is not even a small Malta, so it can count on numerous exceptions. Croatia, on the other hand, is not even rich in Switzerland, so that it can do it on its own. And Croatia is not even powerful enough to dictate on the other side the conditions of its accession. Croatia must first attract capital because logic is simple. Either that capital comes here or our people will go after that capital into the world. Croatia must return to the industry, it must approach re-industrisation because it is wrong for one who thinks he can live on two months of tourism, working 7 and 8 months and 2.8 hectares of average agricultural property. Croatia must also change its way of thinking, because we have just reached the gross social product of 1990, which will say that we are creating exactly what we were creating 15 years ago. So when I talk about the European Union, first of all, I think that our people get a chance to do what they do in the West, clearly that they can and can earn as much as they do in the West and have a standard like those in the West, but it's clear that it won't happen overnight. It's a process. We'll have it from year to year, I'm deeply convinced of this more stable economic opportunity, but it won't unfortunately feel at the standard. Someone will say, then do we need the European Union? Yeah, without it, we'll be uncompetitive goods. And that's why it's good to have a consensus on that question. First of all, we should throw away the stories that someone will buy Croatia in my court. I'm saying, it's not a problem when someone on an island or in Istria sells a barn that makes one or two apartments, so it works for two months and makes something over the summer. It's already a problem when the Croatian government sells INA to a rescheduled bank, a hotel company and so on, that's my problem. Secondly, I'm talking about agricultural land. Who showed any interest in him? More specifically to some failed agrocombinates – no one. In the end, they were all taken by Mr. Todoric. And what does someone think now, is there a difference in thinking about him and someone who runs such systems in Italy or Germany? The main problem with our agriculture is that in 15 years we haven't been able to round up the property. What it stands to this day is on Monday 2.8 hectares and that of those 2.8 hectares simply cannot live, even with a billion and 900 million kuna subsidies spoken of by Minister Cobankovic during the morning. It can survive, though, with subsidies and constant protests, but it can't go on forever either. Finally, no one even advocates that the state or city or county sell anything, but to defend a citizen that he can freely distribute his own, that's something to talk about. Who's gonna buy that barn from him? Well, those who have money. And those two thirds in Croatia know how money came about. The best thing to do now is soon to be seen from these audit reports that we will soon have in front of us. What we must guarantee is that no one enters, for example, fish to fish in the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia except clearly our fishermen. Let's say hunting grounds don't give concessions to foreigners. To try to pool the banking system from what we have left, if we have any more banks left, I mean here at Postanska, or Croatian Banka. And what's most important is that we once share the land with our peasants so that they can begin to live on it. Clearly, no one in IDS thinks that I should, I do not know how to privatise Croatian forests, HEP or Jadrolini, God or our shipyard, which is very much talked about in this national programme on joining the European Union and all as a goal to be achieved in 2005. I'm afraid that, gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister would be a great adventure if it were to take place with privatisation, say 3. A Maya or an Oilman from Pula, who might be able to deal with it that way. With what we have here, everything stays on the declaration in some way. It remains on principle, which is also necessary. But when we get to a specific, for example, national programme that we're going to talk about later, or negotiations, I'm afraid we're going to get together quickly, and that's why I get the impression that no one's seen in advance through these declarations wanted to tie up some obligations. And that's exactly the point. A lot of principles, I don't know how much content. But if resolutions are necessary, we are in and for everything we will raise our hands clearly is not that controversial. But the national program of gentlemen that follows, that's the point. For example, there is talk about pre-accession funds until when the negotiations are completed, from Croatia being a stable democracy, which I want to believe in to corruption, from 26 thousand associations to the Croatian Law, about the return of refugees... assets, from privatisation to exports, from statistical regions to health care, from road traffic, unfortunately not those 0.0 spills all the way there to agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This time I'll just mention the so-called. statistical regions, although it would be better if we could talk one day about the regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia, which is something in principle spoken about in this national programme but nothing important. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This clearly does not mean that any of our counties will lose the status of counties, i.e. that kind of regional visibility. Istria is ready to defend it with a referendum. But I believe that this proposed approach of 5 statistical regions is bad and that it would be better to identify 3 statistical regions, the Adriatic, the Pannonian and the city of Zagreb with the surroundings that this environment can also withdraw some money. You know, five regions, and so were the statistical ones, many in Istria at least remind the so-called. the community of municipalities or communities of the municipality and at least Istria was not satisfied with them. So much for this place, even though I'm going to talk more about it at this national platform. Finally, IDS comes from the fact that the consensus is at least about access to the European Union for all of us a useful thing, that we have lost many years which is due to war, isolation, which is due to economic inferiority. And that it does the same for all of us to miss out should be compensated. I believe that we should all profit from this, even though it is important to know that no one on the side will give us anything that we will have to fight for everything alone, we will have to work much more but we should expect that in the end and the country will be better. That some capital will finally come to the country, that re-industriousisation will begin, re-industriousisation of Croatia by example in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, means by the example of the countries that we have always seen with highness, which in these 15 years have surpassed us in many ways. Just to mention one example, in Slovakia, for example, Ford and Getrag invest 400m euros in the production and installation of auto parts, Peugot and Citroen invested around 700m euros in the same country in 2003 alone, and Hundai and Wolfzeigen will invest around 550m euros in the same country. The products of the automotive industry alone in that country account for 25% of Slovak exports, the same can be said for one Czech Republic, for Hungary, gentlemen for Poland. Gentlemen, where are we?- I'm sorry. The country that sold everything that was worth it remained a little longer, but it didn't move on the other side. The truth has been a year since privatisation, it's been relatively small, about 470 million kunas. I would therefore be most fortunate to have more talk about this dimension although this principle of decision to move towards the EU is a big deal, if for nothing and then because at this point we are able to reach full consensus in this Parliament. And for the end, perhaps what is most important, Croatia must take much more care of its labour legislation, i.e. not to reduce the rights of workers, on the minimum social policy, on social assistance, on privatisation, on the openness of the Croatian economy, on the policy of wage movement, on pay, on pay, on public sector, because the private clear government must not be affected, on the growth policy of pensions. It's for 4 million Croatian citizens right now as we look at it at the IDS Club of Essentials. It doesn't matter if I do it again, my father will sell the barn, he won't sell it well or anyone else on Pag, or if someone from Pag or Cres is going to sell that barn but it's important whether it's going to sell and how the empire on Rab or Sunny Hvar from Hvar. Few countries, I and that I dare say social policy as the state of Croatia. Why? Because the budget is directed for these purposes. In some ways, someone would say self-government policies with amounts paid here clearly because of the economic situation no one can be satisfied. That's the point, especially in a country that can't understand that the best social policy is full-time employment policy. It's not about giving someone something, it's about making a clear profit through a job. And that's something to count on, and no, I'm gonna say it in that barn one more time. It's about the public sector wage movement policy. Right, the IMF has its own policy in a country where once again every fourth budget kuna goes for 200 thousand public sector employees, that is the point, as well as that the European Union is detaminating the pension policy that every fourth kuna in the Republic of Croatia's budget is once again going to. And clearly about the openness of Croatian capital to attract capital, that it feels safe here, that if it wants to leave these premises even though in some areas it will do us great harm because many already announce moving towards Hungary and all the way to Ukraine. So we live not in, I wouldn't say in the past, but live in a world of our own all the time. Exactly the Croatian state was created 15 years ago and everyone still remembers fighting for national survival, war and so on, but the point is today social protection, turn to the future, work and not live in myths. It means Europe in our court, a view of the future, or tomorrow. Self-sufficientness, self-sufficientness is a thing of the past that can be charged in politics always but not in the market. That is why, in my court, there is no need to be afraid of the European Union. No one who came in, we heard and just now came out of that association and all the countries have at least profited so far. From that Polish peasant who is better off today than it was three years ago to a Slovak worker who was also better off last year than five years ago. That will mean Croatia will profit as well. The Prime Minister noted earlier that Croatia would most likely be in 2009 so as to enter the European Union closes the process of independence of the Republic of Croatia started in the 1990s if I quoted it correctly. Unfortunately for the sake of war, Croatia is not in the European Union but today but with little sense in Croatia we will be in 2009 and there is no right for our children to be denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30503	Thank you. SDP's club, the esteemed representative of Neven Mimica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30504	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to talk more about the need and importance of achieving political agreement on Croatia's accession issues to the European Union than about the very text of the Resolution that we have submitted together with the HSS Club. Croatia is entering a new phase of relations with the European Union, the phase will mark negotiations on the conditions under which we will enter into Union membership. After 5 years of successful work on building contractual relations with the European Union and more importantly after 5 years of decisive and not easy reforms leading us towards European standards and criteria today is Croatia's candidate for membership in the European Union and has a specific date for starting accession negotiations. These facts are sufficient reason for all political forces in the country to develop a common approach to the continuation and completion of a major national goal of achieving better life in better Croatia. Because membership in the European Union is just opening up that possibility for us. Build your own development by experienced models that have made it a place for Member States to respect democratic values, rule of law, respect for human rights and minority rights and a competitively strong, stable and constantly growing economy. If the benefits of bringing and offering membership in the Union would only try to come to two key specifics then they would certainly be: political democratic stability and economic competitiveness. For a country that, with all the transition difficulties shared by all transition countries, has passed its own difficult path of the victim of aggression and war destruction, only these two effects and these two reasons for membership in the European Union can be sufficient to determine the direction of future priority action, and this direction is clear for the SDP. Membership in the European Union as an expression of the desire for the long-term well-being of Croatia and its citizens as a means of achieving and facilitating the internal reforms that lead us towards an economically strong and democratically stable society. And when the SDP is committed to play an active role and support in the Croatian integration process in the European Union, we are starting from the fact that the Union's enlargement to post-communist countries marks Europe's reunification. And that Croatia wants and deserves to be part of that reunion. This is not about Croatia's newly discovered European identity. In all our active efforts to achieve Croatia's European future, we recognise the continuation of historical Croatian membership in the European political, civilization and traditional circle. We will bring this kind of European history into our European future. We see such a European future as a long-term and sustainable guarantee for successful Croatian and successful Croatian citizens. Croatia deserves the European Union, and the European Union deserves to have such a stable and successful European Croatia in its membership. In March of this year, when we enter a decisive phase, the final stage of our approach to the European Union will be the EU membership negotiations process only the seemingly most visible part of the overall process of European integration. I would like to point out here an important fact, which is that, in parallel to the negotiation process, we will have to continue to implement and complete the process of reforms of the Croatian economy, legislation and society as a whole, according to the achievement of the standards and criteria of the Union, and we will also have to continue and strengthen the communication process of the objective, intensive information of the Croatian public on all the advantages and difficulties of Croatia's membership, under the conditions of Union membership. So before us, it is not only the negotiating process, but also the reform and communication process. In all these three indeterminate dimensions, we will have to be equally successful. If we fail in any of these three elements, we will compromise the achievement of the overall membership project in the Union. It is good to remind here of two more important messages that should be kept in mind by all those who are engaged in the process of European integration. By its nature, the process of inclusion in the European Union is not exclusively an external-political process but primarily a process of deep and difficult, sometimes painful internal reforms. And secondly, it is not a process for political elites and state institutions but rather a process for all citizens. The final success will only be achieved when every Croatian citizen recognises his interest and his role in achieving membership in the Union. Then state institutions will no longer have to convince citizens why the European Union is good for them because citizens will be aware that they themselves are the European Union. For such a complex business that has the characteristics of the most complete all Croatian development project, it is necessary to understand, support and activity and efficiency of all institutions of the state and society including the political consensus of political parties on the fundamental principles of Croatia's involvement and action in the European Union. The mutual understanding of the political parties about Croatia's need for an accelerated path towards the Union was also achieved in the debate on a resolution adopted by the Croatian Parliament in December 2002. It is now time for the resolution to be defined in a way that parliamentary political parties define their common views and proposals on the principles that should be the basis of the negotiating positions in Croatia's accession negotiations in the Union. It is also necessary to establish the role and contribution of the Croatian Parliament in the overall negotiation process at the stage of the negotiations, but also at a later stage of full membership in the Union. In time, the SDP recognised the crucial importance of defining the basis of the political consensus in the European Union. Together with the HSS, we first proposed the adoption of an appropriate parliamentary resolution that would confirm such joint commitment by political parties. This has led other parliamentary parties to contribute to the final goal of joint parliamentary and extraparliamentary action in strengthening our negotiating positions. That is why today we are in the opportunity to discuss and adopt joint parliamentary documents that will express such a versatile willingness to accept joint responsibility for the results of the negotiations and for the conditions under which Croatia will act in the membership of the European Union. At the beginning of a joint approach to Croatia's SDP perspective, and I believe other opposition parties have come before the election. Accept the concept by which negotiations and the achievement of membership in the Union are a matter of government and parties in power where the opposition will retain the right to criticise each move and collect political points on what is to be seen in public or in some stakeholders as unfavorably negotiated conditions for membership in the Union. Or, on the other hand, accept the concept of an extra-party joint project that brings long-term progress, the concept of shared shared responsibility and credit for all that is good and for what is difficult on the way to the European Union. The SDP is unequivocally committed to this second approach and because it believes it cannot leave a successful own project simply because it successfully continues to be achieved by another political option. Because it recognises the long-term benefits and benefits of this project for the development of Croatia and the progress of its citizens. Because it is not managed by the daily political short-term interests and because it is convinced that the process of Croatia's membership in the European Union will only take place in a high and rapid manner if we accept it as a cross-party common process of national importance. We believe that the political agreement and consensus on the process of European integration should be based on the following items: 1. It is necessary today to adopt a parliamentary declaration that will also reflect the versatile consent of the European definition and European membership of Croatia, what it carries with it into the European Union, on what it expects of the European Union. This declaration should point to the fundamental principles of the negotiating process and the fundamental values that Croatia should retain and develop under the conditions of membership in the Union. The declaration should also establish the role and way of achieving the constitutional position of the Croatian Assembly in monitoring, directing, monitoring, parliamentary control of the negotiation process led by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Then a bilateral statement should be agreed with the Government on the joint action of the Parliament and the Government in the negotiations process with the European Union and the process of further adopting Union standards and criteria. This joint statement should define ways to establish and strengthen effective dialogue and the continued coordinated action of the Parliament and the Government. It is then necessary to decide on the establishment of a national committee to monitor and monitor negotiations as a working body through which the Croatian Parliament will contribute to the strengthening of the negotiation process, but also to give democratic legitimacy and the possibility to involve the public in the negotiation process. In view of the excessive character of Croatia's involvement in the European Union in the national committee, the parliamentary majority and opposition should be represented evenly in order to avoid voting and political competition in this important issue. A representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, the academic community, the emissaries and trade unions should also be included in addition to parliamentary representatives to the Committee's membership. This national committee should be tasked with reviewing the compliance of Croatian legislation means during the screening process, which will take place between the Government and the European Commission at the beginning of the negotiations, meaning that during this time, the screening of the national committee to prepare a draft parliamentary resolution establishing a negotiating strategy and a negotiating framework for a particular sensitive negotiating chapter. On the basis of this resolution, the government and the negotiating team and the expert working groups should then define and agree on detailed negotiating positions to ensure the most favourable derogations and transitional periods in areas where they will be necessary to prevent initial difficulties in the application and implementation of the works of the legal property of the European Union. I stress that it is also necessary to encourage the Government to rapidly propose amendments to legislation in areas where the legal framework is not fully defined and which, in a non-discriminatory manner and in compliance with the obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, will create a legal environment and arguments for negotiating those exemptions and the necessary transitional periods. And finally. The agreement on European issues should also include a general agreement on the appointment of a negotiating team under the criteria of expertise in language and negotiating skills and experience. Not according to the criteria of political resemblance. This narrows down the space for party bids on the names of potential negotiators, and creates a guarantee and obligation to retain the continuity of the negotiating team throughout the period of negotiations, and in case the next parliamentary elections are held before the end of the negotiations. By accepting such defined acts and attitudes, the Croatian Parliament will show its determination to strengthen the parliamentary dimension of the process of European integration, and its ready to contribute to the achievement of the remaining political economic, legislative institutional criteria for membership, as well as its interest in joining Europe in the process of communication to Croatian citizens. And the process of contributing Croatia to regional co-operation and stability. It is also necessary now to announce the need to look at the areas of constitutional change needed for Croatia's successful action in its Europoke membership. As a whole, the consensus on the issue of European integration would confirm the political maturity of Croatian political parties, their common interest in bringing Croatia into the European family, and establishing the equal and proportionate influence of Croatia in the institutions of the Union. In addition to preserving the fundamental elements of Croatian national identity, tradition, culture, language and social values where Croatian society maintained its independence throughout history. On the basis of these subparagraphs and the preconditions of the SDP, it expresses and confirms its willingness to participate and an effective contribution to the process of Croatia's involvement in the membership of the European Union. The European integration area is the last area where the SDP would wish for the government's failure. That is why we will ultimately defend the continuity and maintenance of community in the European issues. However, agreeing to such a political agreement will continue to give us enough space to show semi-ethical differences, and political matches in views on other political economic issues. Especially in the area of economic, development and social policy, and other social issues of internal and possibly foreign policy. What we see the greatest value of political agreement on negotiating issues, in the process of Croatia's accession to the European Union, is the fact that in this way we avoid exhaustion and recommendations in inter-party negotiations at home, and we allow access negotiations to be conducted only with those with whom they should be led. With Member States and with the European Commission. This will certainly maximise our negotiating positions and negotiating credentials. The prerequisite for maintaining a political consensus on the European Union is that, with the same sincerity and same interest, all other political parties, ruling and opposition, will approach it. To take over and share a doubtless positive outcome together. but also the burden of negotiations and the conditions in which Croatia will act in the membership of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30505	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic, please welcome the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30506	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Minister. Mr. Chief Negotiator. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I won't talk about a subject that would be logical to talk about, and that's a presentation of the resolution proposed by the together clubs of HSS and SDP. I'm not going to talk about the other five documents specifically that are here in front of us in a united debate. I will try in a specific way to address more than one topic, which is the attitude of politics and politicians to the public's opinion in the public's influence on the success of the conclusion of negotiations and the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. Of course, there will also be certain arguments in this particular topic that will come out of this topic. I will begin the presentation by quoting our resolution of the Croatian Parliament, on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which we have adopted, it seems to me, by consensus on 18 December 2002. I'll take two citations out. One says "The Croatian Parliament finds that the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full membership in the European Union is a strategic national goal which will provide full and permanent support in the follow-up of the Croatian Parliament.". The emphasis is of course this strategic national goal. Another quote :"The Croatian Parliament expects that the European Parlmetet institutions and members of the European Union will respect the consensus and determination of all political forces in the Republic of Croatia as regards the accession of the European Union shown in this Resolution.". The suddenness of course at the consensus and determination of all political forces. This resolution was passed just over two shades ago. And much has changed since this resolution was adopted. I would say, and advanced towards a common desire towards a common goal, which springs from this House of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the truth for the will of less and less from the Croatian public. However, it comes from the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union as soon as possible. Of course we can list what we have done in the past two years, since harmonising our legislation here in Parliament, from the fact that we have applied for full membership. That a positive opinion was given to the European Commission. That the Republic of Croatia has become a candidate for the European Union. That a certain time has been set for the start of negotiations, and that, in fact, all this has happened in terms of changing power. Since the half of that period we're talking about was one government, the other half was the second government. So under the circumstances of the change of government in the Republic of Croatia, these positive things have happened and moves towards the European Union. Taking into account the latest facts of very successful communication between the authorities and opposition in the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to the European Union, which began at the end of 2004, we can conclude that Croatian politicians or Croatian political parties are here today speaking for this political elite speaker, it seems to me that it was Mr Mimica. That they agree on strategic and for now part of the operational issues of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Understandably, our partners in the European Union are pleased to accept this fact. Because this also means that there is no risk of a breach of the process in order to possibly change some future changes of government in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, too, our partners in the European Union believe that this process is conceptally and dynamically fully protected. Thus, by explaining our relationship with the European Union, we could come, ladies and gentlemen, to the temptation to clap on ourselves how successful we are under one and another rule. But I am sure that we will not applaud ourselves because we are aware that, apart from us, politicians and political parties, there is a very important segment that will decide whether Croatia and Croatia will enter the European Union, which are Croatian citizens, that is the Croatian public. Who, in just a year's time, have reduced trust in the last year, someone will say in the European Union, someone will say in Croatian political parties or in Croatian politics from 82% to about 50%, that's what they say all, I would say, official methodologically correct and incorrect polls, but all the research revolves around these numbers. And let us not, we must not as politicians and as advocates ignore the fact that, in fact, those citizens we mention and that we question today in which percentage they are acceptable, is the acceptable European Union, that they will ultimately decide, once we have finished all our work, whether Croatia will enter the European Union or not. In a referendum. This referendum, of course, can have a positive, can also have a negative result. Why am I talking about this? For a very simple reason, because I want first of all in the Croatian Parliament, where I estimate that there is a high degree of agreement on these issues that we are talking about today, we must be aware of one fact. That in Croatia today politicians are in agreement and people are in doubt about the European Union issue. That's what the public research results say. What can we read from that? Either we didn't do it right, or we didn't interpret the people right, or we simply didn't give enough credible data and arguments to pay the Croatian ordinary man. How else do you interpret the fact that only a year ago the European Union's acceptance was 82% and today 50%? We can speculate, we can charge ourselves, we can talk to each other you have reduced that percentage, etc., however, the irrefutable fact remains that politics has failed to convince the Croatian public, at least not at this time that it should vote, that it should be declared for Croatia's entry into the European Union. Today, here, in such circumstances there are 6 different documents here, 6 different items, documents that came into this Assembly made of different authors, different methodology, at a different level of treatment of the problems of the relations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, all together before the start of negotiations. And of course, we're going to find out again and it's good to say it again, the politicians have again agreed and the political parties have agreed despite the fact that we have six different documents ahead of us. Because we have made it very clear that we will try the way of that common denominator that will allow us to seek the consensus that we mentioned and to which we have committed, in my opinion, on 18 December 2002 when we adopted the first resolution here in the Croatian Parliament. So it doesn't matter whether we agreed to bring in one joint, two or three joint documents. We must be aware of one fact today. If we want to restore trust to the Croatian public who was significantly, significantly above today only a year ago, then we have to work in a way that all things related to the question of the European Union are fully clearly presented to the Croatian public. Without any delay. I'll tell you how the HSS Club sees it. Of course it is necessary here in this hall, to bring to this House a general document that we have today and received on the benches and around which we have no major objections. He will by all accounts be called the Declaration. He is, therefore, at one general political level, at the level of general acceptance and I don't think there will be even, on condition that we vote today, there won't be any particular opposition. What we need to do next, which is to bring one strategy of negotiations with the European Union. Some say it will call the resolution, Mr. Mimica explains that it should be done after "screening", and I think it should be done before the negotiations begin. This is not a strategy for negotiations that can be affected by the European Union's position on the state of our legislation. It is a strategy of the Republic of Croatia to be born in this government and this Parliament. So, the strategy that we want from negotiations with the European Union. So, the HSS Club advocates that we establish this strategy before the negotiations begin. We have plenty of time, we have enough material, we have enough different opinions, and that is already a document that must have a lot of concrete elements and which, with these concrete elements, we must present to the Croatian public if we are to improve the ratio of acceptance or non-acceptability of the European Union in the Croatian public. These two documents should of course be adopted by the Croatian Parliament. There is also a third document, according to us, and I remind you, we agreed at the first meeting of parliamentary party presidents, December 28th. Bringing 3 documents. I don't see any reason to violate this negotiation discipline right now, I don't see any reason why we're trying to wrap it up in some other expressions and some other cellophane. We should stick to that first basic deal. The third document is "A negotiating starting point for each chapter as a framework and a obligation to conduct negotiations on those who will lead the negotiations. Of course, these negotiating points would have been brought on the national committee, of course they are also desirable to be agreed by those who will be on the national committee, but also that we must find a wise, cunning and appropriate way to establish the negotiating starting points that are very specific, which are measured for days, years, centimeters and other measures that exist because they will have to write at these points which exceptions, at what time, in which area of the Republic of Croatia is looking for. Of course it's not wise to negotiate and discuss things in public. I am fully aware of this lack of that negotiating starting point is difficult to present publicly, and then go to Brussels and negotiate on them. But there must be one thing that's clear to us. That we will determine how the starting points will be negotiated for individual chapters and how we will manage to present them to the Croatian public, so much support will be returned from those lost 32%. The success of the negotiations, to be perfectly clear, depends on me only on two things. How many of our negotiating teams will achieve exceptions and how many transitional periods. And b), how much we can achieve so-called. Deviation. I immediately use the occasion and pray that the authors of the declaration in point 4, where the most favourable exceptions and transitional periods are spoken of to add and derogations. Because it's one of the instruments that also negotiators... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Deviation. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Deviations with exceptions. Because it's the same one of the instruments that the negotiator has at his disposal, a candidate country that can look for. At this moment, I do not prejudge that Croatia will submit to certain derogations, but we must have them in the declaration. Of course it's clear to me that of all 36 chapters, if I've heard the information well today that we're not going to ask for derogations or exceptions, of course there will be chapters that can practically start signing tomorrow after the opening of negotiations, but I'm also as aware as all of you here in the hall and our public that there are so-called. The critical chapters around which heavy, difficult negotiations will be conducted. First of all, I mean the movement of capital or what we call real estate sales, the movement of persons, agriculture, fishing, the environment, probably some more critical areas would be found. It is precisely in these critical areas and the greatest expectation of our citizens and our citizens already know enough about these areas about exactly the negotiating points in these critical areas, the concrete sale of real estate, agriculture, the environment, they expect a concrete response from this House, very specifically. Our citizens will determine whether this political consensus will support us too, depending on whether we tell them that after having another residence in Croatia 5, 10 or 8 years will depend on how we agree they will be able to become the owner of a particular property. Croatian citizens know very well that some countries have received for sale and privatisation of agricultural land 7, some 10, some 12 years. Croatian citizens expect the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament to tell them very clearly and loudly how many years we plan to ask the European Union for an exception that our agricultural land does not have to be sold to foreigners. I assure you if we will know this process of establishing a negotiating starting point for these critical chapters in one wise, fine way to present to our public sometimes directly when we consider it possible, sometimes through sectoral associations when we estimate that it is possible, sometimes in certain cases with citizens in a variety of ways, not infringing relations with the European Union, not in breach of negotiations, but we need to know our citizens clearly enough. It will depend directly on how much we will restore this trust. I'm also aware of the fact that there are no ultimatums in these negotiations, otherwise there would be no negotiations, but let's try one thing purely hypothetically. In order for this House to be set up if, for example, the European Union, this is indeed, I ask you to take it as a hypothetical consideration, for any reason say one moment, Croatia will not get an exemption from the sale of agricultural land, it will not get it. It must liberalise the sale of agricultural land at the same time. Croatia's sea at the same time, there will be no exceptions to coastal and island protection. How would we set ourselves up? I don't believe there will be such a situation, but we simply at our negotiating points must prejudge that such a situation cannot occur. I know what my party would say. Thank you very much, European Union. We'd have the strength to even say that. We're sure it won't come to this, but such a rigorous example was supposed to serve only one thing that we here in this House realize that it can't, that the negotiating points can't be the discretionary rights of anyone in this country but exclusively certain cooperation between the government and this House. To just achieve this all that I am talking about, to try through an extremely transparent relationship with the Croatian public, and to make sure that the moment we come to the referendum in two or two and a half years and ask our citizens for the opinion that this opinion will be positive. I appeal that this whole process is conducted in an extremely transparent manner, respecting exactly as it was written in a statement by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Where the Croatian Parliament and the Government are said to see the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union as an expression of the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of complete and public information, complete and public information and full guidance as well as an open and transparently guided process of negotiations during which all interested factors should be guaranteed the right to information and dialogue. So we ask only for confirmation of what is said in the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that every moment we are open to the Croatian public, that the Croatian public has the right to complete information, because if they are not going to have it then believe that we will continue to leak with this percentage of acceptability that has come to an alarming 50% limit in other countries, especially these 10 countries that entered the European Union on 1 May, this process was far, far slower. This is exactly why the HSS Club will propose specific conclusions to achieve all these effects. Of course we will also support the Government and Parliament's statement, of course we will support this declaration with this one, with this one tiny, tiny correction, but we will suggest special conclusions, so please listen to them. Under 1st, before the start of the negotiations, the Parliament will consider a resolution on negotiations with the European Union as strategic material, as a strategy for negotiations. 2. That the National Committee of the Croatian Parliament will establish the programme starting points for each chapter as a mandatory framework for negotiations shall be consistent with the entry into negotiations for individual, individual chapters and 3. ... Just give me 20 more seconds. 3. That within 10 days, the Ministry of European Integration will provide the Croatian Parliament with a review of all exceptions and transitional periods for 10 countries which entered the European Union last year and a review of derogations for all EU Member States. This, these, this documentation we would need to be as parliamentary representatives, and later as the National Committee, we can more effectively establish negotiating positions for each chapter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30507	Thank you very much. Honored representative Gordan Jandrokovic, the HDZ Representatives' Club, and since the Prime Minister wanted to look back at the presentation of representatives who spoke on behalf of the HSS Club of Honored Representative Tomcic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30508	Thank you, Mr. President. I would only briefly express the experience and practice of the previous negotiations between the European Union and the countries that have entered both these 10 and those 3 that have entered the 95. In fact, I refer to the proposal of your conclusions that I think are in principle good but that we should distinguish strategic negotiations that the National Committee or the Parliament can make and the strategy of the negotiations that the government makes in each country. So that's one piece of paper that the government in the negotiation strategy brings. Of course we are prepared to adopt a strategy of negotiations to discuss and see in this consistent and joint statement by the Parliament and the Government. But it is important to note that the negotiation strategy always comes with the negotiating one. And the strategic definitions in the negotiations, that might be the difference between the differentiation of the specifics that we could accept, we would otherwise deviate from the usual practice here because then we would derivate the government's role in everything. But since we are ready and there is this statement that we support, a joint statement by the Parliament and the Government and before the negotiation strategy is adopted to adopt a resolution on strategic negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30509	Gordan Jandrokovic, Club of HDZ Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30510	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The accession of Croatia to the European Union will have a crucial impact on the future development of the country and the quality of life of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Emphasising the role and importance of the Parliament in this process, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club proposes a declaration on the fundamental principles of full membership negotiations in the European Union and a statement by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on joint action in the EU membership negotiations process. At the same time, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club voices hope that during the debate in the Croatian Parliament this topic will be agreed and that documents will be adopted that best determine the principles of the process of negotiations and the goals of the Republic of Croatia as well as the joint action of the Parliament and the Government in the process. 14 years since the beginning of its independence, the Republic of Croatia has been in front of another important stage of social development. The start of the process of negotiations for membership in the European Union. In these 14 years, Croatia has built and strengthened the values of the democratic state, freedom, peace, stability, democracy, the rule of law, good rule, respect and full protection of human and minority rights, and economic progress and development. It has become a mature democratic state, whose overall progress has also been recognised in the international community. Developing other than national and European identity and accepting the values on which the European Union is founded, Croatia's commitment to membership in the European Union is only a logical continuation of its current path and social development. And Croatia's confirmation of its social, political and economic development has also been given by the European Union itself. First, by obtaining a positive opinion from the European Commission on a request for membership in the European Union. And then by European Council decisions on candidate status and starting date for membership negotiations in the European Union. Membership in the European Union is one of the fundamental priorities of both the internal and external policies of the Republic of Croatia. It is also a priority for these governments headed by Prime Minister Dr Sanader, the past government headed by Prime Minister Racan, but also by former governments, which proves that there is continuity in Croatia politics and the consent of all relevant political forces. The Croatian Parliament resolution on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union with 2002 as well as a joint statement by all parliamentary parties on the start of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union last December have demonstrated that all parliamentary parties agree on full membership in the European Union in the highest representative body of citizens. The Croatian Democratic Community Club hopes that by adopting a declaration on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership in the European Union and a statement by the Croatian Parliament and the Government on joint action in the process of negotiations for membership in the European Union, it will also strengthen this agreement, which is important for the future of the whole country, all of its citizens and our children. What does the declaration on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership in the European Union bring and what are the fundamental principles of the negotiations? First of all, the declaration brings one more confirmation that full membership in the European Union is the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. It also expresses the intention of the Republic of Croatia to reach a level of readiness for full membership by 2007. The declaration brings the political and economic objectives that the Republic of Croatia wants to achieve during the EU membership negotiations process. When it comes to political objectives, it is indisputable that the Republic of Croatia during the negotiations, and later also wants to preserve its fundamental constitutional values, indivisibility, integrity and integrity of territories, continuity and protection of tradition, culture, language and social values as the basis of its national identity. In doing so, Croatia wants to contribute to strengthening and enriching common European values, as well as social and cultural processes. The political objective is also to ensure that during the negotiations process, the Republic of Croatia provides the best status as an equal member, i.e. that its political economic and financial position corresponds to its proportionate strength compared to the other Member States. This position will be particularly important when Croatia, as an equal member of the European Union, participates in joint decision-making and will for the first time decide on its own fate evenly within the world's strongest integration. The economic objective of the membership negotiations process is to achieve rapid and stable economic growth, taking into account the protection of sensitive branches of the economy against vital interest. In doing so, Croatia will seek to ensure the most favourable exceptions and transitional periods especially for certain areas such as agriculture, fishing, acquisition of property rights, state support and environmental protection. The economic objective of the negotiations and the achievement of the conditions for achieving a stable, financial and macroeconomic environment, sustainable development and increasing competitiveness of the Croatian economy, strong Croatian industry and agriculture, increased investment as well as the achievement of an educated and adaptable workforce. The achievement of economic well-being and development must also be accompanied by the preservation of social security and care for all Croatian citizens. It is particularly important to ensure a uniform development policy, with the understanding of all regional differences and the well-being of all parts of Croatia. How does the Republic of Croatia welcome the start of the negotiation process and its readiness to negotiate? With full certainty, we can say that the Republic of Croatia is ready to open negotiations with the European Union on full membership on 17 March this year. Croatia does not welcome the start of negotiations with the European Union unprepared. Since institutionalising relations with the European Union through a Stabilisation and Association Agreement that will formally enter into force on 1 February this year, Croatia has taken an important step towards the European Matrix. The road is marked by a proactive Croatian approach. Aware of the importance of all the preconditions that will enable it to join the European Union quickly, the Republic of Croatia continuously meets all Copenhagen and Madrid criteria as well as specific political criteria. For the third year in a row, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a national programme for joining the European Union. The 2005 programme is the third in line to prove that the Republic of Croatia has been preparing seriously for membership for several years before the start of its negotiations. This document is a complete demonstration of the fulfilment of the political and economic criteria for the approximation of the European Union, and of the degree of harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. the demonstration of reforms Croatia is taking. They and the central management mechanism of activities in the field of European integration for a given year. All reforms that Croatia is conducting from judicial reform, economic and structural reforms to reforming the state administration to strengthening administrative capacity, as well as all reforms that Croatia will undertake over the next few years have not been imposed on it outside. For them, there is a strong internal political motive. At the same time, these reforms are compatible with those required by the negotiation process. The perspective of membership in the European Union as well as preparations for it are an additional incentive to accelerate the reform processes and transformation of the state, as well as the driver of new comprehensive adaptations in the transition period. Therefore, the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union should not only be seen as a goal, but also as an instrument for strengthening the Croatian society as a whole and as a way to better integrate it into globalisation processes. What is the role of the Croatian Parliament during the EU membership negotiations process? The declaration proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community also lists the principles on which the role of the Croatian Parliament will be based during the negotiation process. The Croatian Parliament as the legislative body of the Republic of Croatia plays an important role in the process of meeting the legal criteria for full membership. In doing so, the Croatian Parliament will continue its cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to ensure that the process of harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union is successfully and quickly implemented in accordance with current dynamics and achievements. The Croatian Parliament will monitor and monitor the conduct of the negotiation process and will be involved in the debate on all relevant issues arising from the negotiations specifically through the National Committee. As a special working body, the National Committee will discuss negotiating positions on certain negotiating chapters in dialogue with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. During the negotiation process, the National Committee will also work to strengthen the overall social consensus. The Croatian Parliament will also ensure timely accession to the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia necessary for full membership in the European Union and full implementation of the EU acquis in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and the final decision on membership of the European Union will be made by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a referendum. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the achievement of membership in the European Union is a major challenge that requires mobilising all available potentials not only among decision-makers and within the state administration but also requires the mobilisation of the entire Croatian society. With the political agreement on this issue that we have already reached and which we must further strengthen the successful achievement of the common strategic objective can only be achieved with the support of all segments of Croatian society and citizens. Membership in the European Union must be seen as a national project adopted by Croatian society and become the result of open dialogue at all levels. An open and direct dialogue with Croatian citizens will raise their level of information and education in the European integration process. In order to achieve that membership in the European Union is generally accepted and the national objective, we MPs have a special responsibility, there are topics and projects, and membership in the European Union is exactly what we should rise above our sometimes narrow day-to-day political thinking and interest. In this way, we will send a positive message to Croatian citizens, show them our seriousness and responsibility and show European public and European negotiators ready to fight consistently for national and state interests and to improve the status of the Republic of Croatia within the European Union. And let me end by quoting Robert Shumman, French Foreign Minister and one of the European Union’s ideal beginners, who said: “Europe is not created in one breath and without contradiction because nothing is permanently built on ease, aware that the achievement of membership in the European Union will not be an easy way to express our firm belief that our country has enough human resources, internal energy and optimism, and wisdom and vision that as soon as possible and under more favourable conditions we will achieve full and permanent membership in the community of the most developed European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30511	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the club HSLS and DC, first representative Ivan Čehok, and then colleague Franjo Piploić. Before that, one notification, in accordance with Article 207(2). Rules of Procedure, it's time for a ten-minute debate. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30512	Madam Chairman, Mr. Chief Negotiator, ladies and gentlemen, we are in front of a great paradox, whenever only or little when we agree in this House to achieve a comprehensive agreement, it is rare that we are all unique in support of these resolutions, but on the other hand, I think that someone has already pointed out, the fact that the faster we are progressing or the more preconditions we have achieved so that we can integrate into the European Union, the number of those of our citizens, at least according to all the polls that have been conducted lately supporting Croatia's entry into the European Union. On the one hand, therefore, usually part of the regiment, the political elite most often fought over all important political issues, and we have had a hard time agreeing on what we all well-intentionedly called state or general or national interests, but on the other hand, the more active the government has already been in external diplomatic offensive, the pressure on the European centres of political decision-making and the power to make Croatia realize all these steps that we have achieved so far so far so that we have the date of negotiations, that we have avis, to become an official candidate still gradually with time to support the whole project. I want to highlight this in the first place because this resolution and the declaration or whatever we call it is just a declarative text, it is a verbal expression of our support and our determination to join the family of European countries, but it actually contains only the port of communes, general places, it contains declarative statements which, of course, is well accepted and it is good that we adopt them today. However, I think that we must, in fact, not declare it, not at this verbal level, convince our citizens and it is our duty and it is, of course, our responsibility that Croatia joins the European family of nations and states. I am afraid that as well as negotiations will take place, how we will open up issues that are controversial, which are painful, which require even unpleasant structural adjustments that so part of the suspicions of the public will grow and that we will have to make particular efforts to convince our citizens that despite all these unpleasant experiences and painful adjustments, the European family, nation and country is our only destiny. So I think that our responsibility is not, above all, to bring resolutions and declarations of responsibility for said and is not made at a declarative level, but above all, at this practical political level, precisely in that as much as possible we do the whole process, the entire course of negotiations and the entire course of adaptation as little as possible to the dark,... our public, as far as possible open, clear and of course throughout Croatia and our citizens favorably. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How are we gonna do that? I'm afraid it's difficult to do so by citing these loca communes or general places. We do not practically do anything else as political parties, but we are declaring ourselves to join the European Union, but on the other hand we are in the operational sense both as the Government and as the Croatian Parliament, and then we can say in general as the public, little or almost nothing we are doing in order to turn our declarative support into programmes, in documents that will incretely determine what Croatia intends or what Croatia wants by joining the European family. I will say and give immediately and for the example of Austria, which we all know in the third round, which, before it entered in 95, did not bring in declarative and strategic documents but brought in very clear, very concrete documents and predicted and effective mechanisms and instruments that would achieve their fundamental national goals that would make it possible to access the European family at all. Austria had one fundamental goal. Increase exports 100% within 10 years to the European Union, to European Union countries. This goal was like, we can say the inscription on the door through which they were to enter the European Union. Austria has ladies and gentlemen managed to do it in nine years. Today, Austria has doubled its exports to the European Union within 9 years, so not 10 years as originally planned, and has achieved the most important objective for which it has joined the Eurospa Union. I'm asking you what our goals are. We wrote here that we will preserve macroeconomic stability. That doesn't mean much. It's one measure we have to take whether we approach or not. We wrote here that we will develop a competitive economy that will fit into all over the course of the development of the European economy. It is something ladies and gentlemen that we must do regardless of whether we become part of this European family or not. We've written here a whole series of high-minded and declarative statements and ideas, but we don't have that fundamental goal. It was clear to the Austrians that they had a large foreign exchange inflow from tourism, but it was also clear to them that it was not enough. First of all, because the tourist offer is weak and the tourism demand is lower and second, what they need in this trade exchange is one sub-invested industrial economy to raise in order to then be able to in this family, in the free exchange of capital, goods and people to achieve national goals. And they did it in nine years. And I'm asking you, where are we today? 63% of pre-war industrial production and regardless of whether it's left, right, middle government, we're still on those bewitched 60 or 63%. We can't break that barrier. In 15 years, we have failed in a significant way to increase industrial production. And we don't need the European Union to do it. But we didn't do it. We've been talking for 15 years about making the judiciary effective, we haven't done it. The fact is, we didn't do it. We've been talking about school reform for 15 years, about the process of adapting higher education and science, we haven't done it. We even extended deadlines, for example, in which we must comply with the basic European standards in higher education by 2007 or 2008. The European Union does not require us to do so in any way, no matter when or how we approach it. And instead of setting such very clear goals, instead of being like the Austrians who of course were in the starting position, we can say so in a better position than we are. Instead of saying we want to have 80% of pre-war industrial production by the time we enter the European Union. We want different higher education and science. We want a judiciary that will be reformed in a year. We are thinking again in some way that everything in this adjustment process, structural adjustments in the negotiations themselves, will in some way be encouraged. That all these processes will improve, and I assure you, unfortunately, they won't. My colleague Cain's argumentation is wrong. Slovakia and the Czech Republic did not become industrial giants now that they became part of the European Union but long ago. Too bad there's no fellow Caine. Slovakia has a car industry 10 years back. Slovakia's investment also attracted to it before it became a European Union country. Slovakia attracted investment by subsidising foreign investments. Not by the strangers coming. Because they knew Slovakia would become part of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, as mayor of the city who is currently building five factories, which at this point has a million squares of industry owned by most European investors, but also domestic investors, I can tell you that no one has asked us whether we want to enter or not. They asked us what our workforce was like? Are we competitive? Do we have enough land? Do we have enough labour? Will he have to wait for every permit a year or two? That's what they asked us. They weren't too concerned about whether we were going to enter in 2007 or 2009. I'm not saying that because I'd advocate a delay or not because I don't think it's good to get in as soon as possible. Finally, HSLS was the first party still there in the early 1990s to advocate a rapid approach to the European Union in our basic party documents and at our assemblies, rather than saying that because I think we need to regain consciousness and set ourselves goals that will be targets for tomorrow. Which will be possible because the more powerful we will be, the faster we reach that rate of industrial growth, the faster we raise industrial production to at least 80% of pre-war production, the faster we attract investment, the stronger we will be, and we will be a more serious partner for each European Union country. Both individually and as a whole. So I really think it's up to us to make all these declarative statements that we've come to realize and implement here today. Not to wait for what the European Union will say, that we are not waiting for them to tell us about the terms of adaptation but that we are starting to adapt ourselves because we are not going to become part of an integrated Europe at any European centre but will first become part of an integrated Europe in Zagreb, Dubrovnik, Varazdin or any smaller place to any one in Croatia and part of that integrated Europe will not be a country but will be our citizens. So I also think that these dangers that some colleagues are seeing somewhere in the distance are also a little frightening to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm honestly saying it would have been better if the foreigners could have bought land and could have bought our industry and our companies when it was being sold out in Croatia. We'd be much better owners, believe me. They would be much better treated both for land and for companies and for workers and for national wealth. To talk about it today, of course, is for certain exceptions or maybe prolongations to happen in those controversial and painful issues. You should think about it. But I'm not willing to tell our negotiators in advance whether or not you're a poor mother if you don't make it five or six years, then the whole country will fail. Let's not be hypocritical. Anyway, what's in Croatia was worth most in foreign hands today. And banks and telecommunications and the energy sector. And the strongest business hotel tourist companies. Thus, we all realize that we have lost some of our national wealth irretrievably. And today to threaten our citizens and ourselves, you know, let's not let strangers buy our properties. We're in possession of property. I think it's a little bit more paranoid than it actually is, we could say it's a rational choice or rational reasons that could lead us to already looking for the biggest exceptions possible. Once again, our citizens would be happy that most of it was bought by some other masters compared to our own citizens who were bad masters. So I think that we should encourage our negotiators, however, and that we should give them certain maneuveric freedom both in space and in time to realize, I believe that they will achieve or that they will want to achieve the best possible mainly in these controversial or painful issues and on the very slippery terrain whether they will be excluded from selling real estate, land or forest or some other property owned today by the Republic of Croatia for 5 or 6 years on 10 years. So I think we should still be more flexible here. At the end of the HSLS will support the adoption of this Declaration, it's good that we all agreed on this. I think this is a basic document, he likes all the basic documents of general nature. However, I think we need it as soon as possible, I think we should all be aware that our fate is certainly a European family, a nation and a state. I don't think we can and won't be able to survive economically, nor if you want pure existential quite ordinary at the everyday civil level, beyond that family. But it is precisely our responsibility that the percentage of citizens who today advocate accession should not be 55% or 60%, but rather be much greater. To achieve a complete civil consensus on this. And that, in some way, all of this that might be controversial by our own consent, so we can say that with some kind of our ability, I will not say enlightenment, but certainly affecting the basic flows of both thinking and the mental set of all those who today in Croatia have a political decision yet show that we are unique, to see Croatia in the European Union. And that ultimately Croatia belongs in a cultural sense. We are, in a way, just going back to where we were before, and it may be easier for me to talk about it because we are living closer to Europe. It is certain that all those goals will not be devoid. Let's not close our eyes and think I'm reading here, I don't know, a democratic level, so let's say, the existential security of citizens that in Europe, for example, the state of general criminality of relations with minorities is much better in some European countries than in Croatia. Today's appearances that will find you in Croatia will be conditional in any larger German city. One of the safest German cities of Koblenc is a city friend of Varazdin. They told me themselves that they have one of the lowest rates of unemployment, public order and peace is really appropriate, but they have problems with the attitude towards minorities as well as in the rusty German cities. Therefore, we will have to make an effort to do this for us, for Croatia's sake, and not so much for European standards. And they're often broken. Therefore, we support the adoption of this declaration, we expect the Government to specify what these are fundamental Croatian objectives, why we want to achieve and what we will do both in the economy and in society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30513	Thank you very much, dear colleague Chehok. You left very little time with your colleague Piplovic. Frano Puplić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30514	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief Negotiator. I'm gonna use my minutes to thank the president of my club for leaving me so much time. And with the finding that it is so in life when a man is another and what I meant to say is that I will say in an exhibition when I get the word as individual. If that's the case, then I'll say it. Well, you see, on behalf of the Democratic Center, I'd say a few words, firstly I'd say that these negotiations are really coming at the right time. According to this morning's dispersion in the Parliament, I was afraid that in 2005, we Croats in the Parliament would continue the war on the committees. And I think that now we will spend this part of this energy that we thought we would spend in each other's accounts in the Parliament probably in quality negotiations and preparation of Croatian citizens for quality European integration. The day of the negotiations for Croatia's full membership in the European Union, on 17 March 2005, could also be compared to one historic date on 15 January 1992 when Croatia is internationally recognised. Following this international recognition, much has changed in favour of Croatia. I want to believe that, even after these negotiations have started, much will also change in favour of Croatia after the negotiations have been successfully concluded. In order to reach January 15th, Croatian defenders and Croatian peoples and citizens of Croatia and Croatian politics under the direction of the Croatian president Dr. Franjo Tudjman do a lot of things, endure a lot of suffering exams full of bitter chalices. An international recognition of Croatia's recognition has taken place two years since the first historic party elections. This is the result of historical unity and consensus of all social and political factors in Croatia expressed through the then government of national unity. So we have a very high-quality result through the Government of National Unity, which means that pattern should be applied and now with this really significant date. On the way to 17 March 2005, Croatia and its citizens had to undergo many difficult trials. Changing and accepting what was unacceptable in the first wave. In addition to the occasional tensions and the dreary and reluctant giving of support led by the previous Government of Ivica Racan and the current Government of Ivo Sanader, we have finally reached the desired date when it will officially begin the pregoor for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union. I believe that both the former and current prime minister and Racan and Sandar are aware that on 17 March, with all the merits of their governments, it is primarily the result of the endless patience of the Croatian man and Croatian citizen who is ready to give up and the indifference and facing the better life that we expect. It is no longer a question of whether Croatia will enter the European Union. It will not be questionable when we enter full membership we wish for 2007 while some mention 2009. No matter when it will be in 2007 or 2009, the fundamental question to which we need to answer is how we enter. We have given ready for the stadiums that are required of us and in which time we will be able to adopt them. This is not about negotiators, it's about all layers of Croatian citizens. In a democratic center.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30515	Excuse me, colleague. Time's up. Did you make it to the main one? Well, I can't decide if you can do it anymore. Here's two sentences.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30516	So give me a minute. At the Democratic Centre, we believe that we need to reach an agreement among all the factors of Croatian society, to put the best among us in the negotiating teams, the most capable, wise and patient husbands and women of Croatia and not the like. If these teams are truly the best among us, there is no need to doubt that they will not do what is best for Croatia and its position in the European Union. We know from the experience of other countries waiting in line for the European Union, what standards and we will get. The ability of our negotiators will depend on what deadlines and dynamics will be agreed. In order for all these processes to be achieved in a coordinated manner, it is necessary to implement education in parallel, and to inform all layers of Croatian citizens on a qualified basis, at all levels for the European Union. It is the task of all those who will not be directly involved in the negotiations. While this process of negotiating and harmonising Croatian legislation as well as our own, the whole of Croatia should be targeted and organised towards these processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30517	Sorry, buddy, I'm gonna have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30518	There won't be if one of them negotiates and the other uninterestedly promotes it. We are all called to caution, wisdom of patience, of coordinated action. Croatian society of Croatian citizens awaits them a difficult and thorny path to the European Union. The way we give up some of our established patterns, our behaviors, the way we give up the various weaknesses that we have often highlighted ourselves, how we should free them. Way to get used to some other demanding standards. And finally, perhaps these negotiations should often stress that we have always been part of Europe, that through our history we have always carried that difficult part of Europe less the gracious and glamorous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30519	Thank you very much, colleague. I must admit, I haven't seen this kind of tolerance in the assembly for a long time. We got a good start on the year. Of all of us, colleague Pipplitch. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS, vice president, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30520	In general harmony, would you like a colleague? Here you go. Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This seems to be the easiest part today, and probably in this step that we have now decided and is the easiest part, but the easiest part is because for years we have been on this subject very slowly, very slowly and often very hard to build one position, a political position, the European identity of Croatia on the European membership of Croatia, the fact that Croatia is part of the European circle and after much we have built a consensus which today seems to be understandable, but as all those who have followed Croatian politics or who have followed the work of Parliament and parties in Parliament and individuals in the Croatian public and in Parliament know that the building of this consensus was neither easy nor has been fast, but it is obviously crucial for this decision and that, at least this step has been so easy to take. This can also be a lesson in many other things that we face almost uncompromisingly. And today we are facing almost uncompromisingly, and we will have to, in a year's time, whether or not in five, but we will have to build a consensus if we are to move forward as a decent and normal European state, even as a country that wants to join the European Union. So just to change some of the standards we were conflicting about this morning. The declaration, i.e. the proposals for declarations given here in Parliament from which we are now joint, we are building a joint declaration or a joint declaration on Europe, i.e. on Croatia's entry into the European Union, is one of the 3 documents that we will have to define before the start of negotiations. The shortest, but the one for which we have certainly built the most consensus is this very declaration of Europe that we are talking about today. In addition, we will have to define another document to discuss the strategy of the negotiations, i.e. the negotiating frameworks. And we will have to define the third and most detailed and potentially most controversial document, certainly one that will probably require the longest and most timid talks, which are fundamental negotiating positions. The Declaration on Europe is a kind of joint declaration by the citizens of Croatia, us as a political nation, that we want to use the legal gains of the European Union as a series of roadmaps in the reforms we want to implement in Croatia. Let us also see in Croatia history and in Croatia the present elements, points where we build our European identity by which Croatia is not only geographically but also politically, not only today but through its history it carries this European potential permanently. It carries this commitment permanently for, on the one hand, a clear, enlightened, own identity, and on the other hand, openness and the ability to cooperate with others and different, with the countries surrounding us, with countries that make up this political and cultural space of Europe. This is our joint statement, that by building our country and building our identity at the same time we are building and participating in building European identity and Croatian identity is part of European identity and Europe is also Europe. So what we're deciding today is some kind of public statement that we want to go that way and that we want to develop Croatia according to those standards that, for example, it has benefited in its development from the Netherlands to Ireland, different countries. Of course, not perfect, of course, with a lot of remarks that could be expressed, but countries that represent and must represent for us the minimum standards that we want to achieve. The standards of the European Union cannot be for Croatia what is the end but what is the minimum, and in human rights, and in economic competitiveness, and in the ability of the education system we must go far beyond those standards that we recognize today as European, but we must use them as our minimum and first to that level we must reach. The path towards membership in the European Union, therefore, is for Croatia, so I would say in the 95% internal policy ratio. This is the path to reform, development, the model of development that we want for ourselves, and it is not true that the objectives are not set. The objectives set are very clear and the European Union is used only as a guideline. It is used as a guideline on the road which some of these countries have already gone for those goals they have already achieved and which, of course, are our goals of passing time on that path, but not definitive. Which we must achieve so that we can go beyond that and that in some things we can become leaders of European standards, not those who follow the standards that others have already established. But of course we could become leaders of these standards, in order to initiate new, more quality standards, we must first reach those that have reached other countries. And for this reason, Croatia's path towards the European Union, which is so often seen as an foreign policy topic, so often presented, as an external political theme, is an essential internal political topic. And the people who will technically negotiate on our behalf from the main negotiator to the team members, to the many hundreds of people who will make up all these teams, will, of course, only be able to negotiate with the position of what we want. With the position of our decision that we want to go that way and that we want to achieve these goals, that we want reforms. The goal of our path towards the European Union is not to join the European Union. It's just one of the effects. The aim of our journey towards the European Union is to reform both Croatian higher education and Croatian agriculture and Croatian health and Croatian industry in another way to access certain sectors of life because we think they should be better, that they should be better for us. Our goal of joining the European Union is not to try to push into that political organisation while leaving all things at home as they are. Because if that goal doesn't make sense to go that way, if we have to leave all things the way they are, if we think it's so good and it should be, then there's no point going that way. Because that path primarily means a commitment to reform and what we're going to negotiate is only a pace, the speed that we can and are able to implement with us, but those reforms are our goal. Our goal is not to avoid these reforms, not to escape and hide from what we want, because no one in particular pushes us into the European Union, nor does anyone in particular call, nor does anyone in particular drive us, it is our decision, not because we think it is inevitable, but because we want those reforms that the European Union is carrying with us and that is why we are going on that path. And I think it's important for us to be aware of this at this initial moment because these reforms and these decisions today and these few decisions that we're going to make in the next month, the two of us are actually going to be committed to these reforms. They are our decision, and membership in the European Union is only a casual phenomenon, or one of the conjectures of our decision to go through these reforms. The experiences of European countries, especially those that entered the European Union last year, can be of great help to us and should be of great help to us. We need to look at their macroeconomic data, their data relating to reforms educated in the functioning of the public administration, the functioning of the judiciary, other words on the functioning of the basic institutions, and from which it is useful to go, which means it is dangerous or useless to go to whether this membership in the European Union has benefited them, to what extent it has benefited them, what their growth rates look like today, what they looked like before membership in the European Union and what has contributed to them on that road and on that road. Looking at those who finished this job three, four years ago, we'll see how many, but before us, we'll be able to conclude and what's best to do on our way, and we'll be able to present to our own citizens who are potential advantages of the path we've decided to take. Croatia, I think, has also shown this in its history and has shown that, bearing in it this European potential is permanently certainly capable of succeeding on that path. There is strength, and there is knowledge, and there is determination to succeed on that path, although there is no need to be fooled that unity will become on that path. Unity exists now that we generally declare ourselves to be Europeans and to see ourselves as Europeans. What does that mean? How is this practically realized? What are the practical strategies for this trip? This will, of course, be much more controversial than this general statement that we see ourselves as Europeans, and likely what happened to all other countries on that road will happen to us, which is that at the outset, from great support and consensus, we will enter reduced support and controversy that if we are successful in all things in the referendum we end up with a positive attitude and a high degree of support again on the basis of the general question whether we as Croatian citizens are and see ourselves in the future as Europeans. That is why the experiences of these countries that entered the European Union in the last year were so important to us because they also had these same dilemmas coming from similar experiences. On this road we also take responsibility for the region, for a region which in our case means three regions. So the Central Europe region, means the Balkan region and means the Mediterranean region. Under the circumstances, Croatia belongs to all these three regions and there are, of course, countries that are members of the European Union, countries that are not members of the European Union, countries that have come, some of them even the founders of the European Union, countries that have come much further on this path of reform, those that have just started or have just entered the European Union and those who have entered the reforms and European standards far behind us. But Croatian interest among other things is that this interest coincides with the interest that leads us towards the European Union is Croatian interest to contribute and to put into the role of a country that leads, cooperates, introduces, contributes to the introduction of European standards and the development of European standards beyond what they have come to today in all three regions that facilitate and enables communication between the three regions to which Croatia belongs. For what, among other things, is one of the fundamental reasons why we want to go to the European Union? One is stabilising the region, one is lasting peace. There is no lasting peace for Croatia, there is no stable, stable environment for Croatia without stability in all three regions, and there is no stability in all three regions without uniform standards. Why was the European Union originally created? It's just to bring those standards into line. Exactly so that the countries that came out of II. The World War, by unifying standards and opening mutual communication, has permanently stabilised what they thought was Europe at the time, and this was the first Europe according to Cheslav Milos. It was Western Europe without us, without Milosevic's second Europe. We are now standing before this same task for another Europe, for this part of Europe, which includes certainly Central Europe and the Balkans and then somewhat the Mediterranean part of Europe. And that decision we make here at the same time means taking responsibility for stability and contributing to stability throughout the region and spreading these standards to countries throughout the region and working together with countries throughout the region. The National Committee that we have talked about here and which will still be discussed has a function and purpose that this minimum consensus that we have reached on the declaration or we are just reaching out to the European Union declaration that this minimum consensus is still being built, and, if possible, in those difficult discussions that are ahead of us, this is a debate on the strategy and, in particular, discussions on the fundamental negotiating positions and frameworks of the negotiations. And that is how this National Committee needs to be conceived, and that is how it should function. It is therefore important that decisions be taken by consensus in this National Committee and presented accordingly. The second task is to form a negotiating team. We're right here at the beginning. It is also a task that requires consensus, not just political consensus. It requires a social consensus, and it requires a social consensus because we need to draw knowledge, experience, negotiating capabilities not only from the political sphere, but from the sphere of science, civil society, education, economy, economy, management, so from everything that is available to us, to achieve what we are on the one hand going towards reform, in order for these reforms to be successful. And to ensure that we can spend enough time on the other hand, not to avoid them, but to spend them qualityly. What will be the subject of the negotiations, here? Of course, the subject of the negotiations will not be content. The subject of the negotiations will be quotas, deadlines, delays or do not delay where they will eventually insist on, say, Croatian students later applying certain rights that students from other European countries and possible exceptions. This is the subject of the negotiations in which we are going, and it is not the very content of the European Union's gains. And therefore, by bringing today both the HNS Club and the PGS will support in this case, I hope that I can speak on behalf of the Club LIBRE since we have ultimately come up with our proposal for a declaration, will support this joint declaration on Europe, which was formed on the basis of six or seven proposals that came here. But I would like to stress that by accepting this declaration we also accept not only the exemption from the rules, but also the reform of Croatian institutions and the sphere of life and the economy of Croatia in the role models of these institutions, and we only negotiate on the most favourable deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30521	Thank you very much. Now it's HSP's Club, fellow MP Anto Djapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30522	Madam Vice President, Mr. Chief Negotiator, colleagues and colleagues. The development of Croatian policy relations towards the European Union has certainly marked all these 15 years since the renewal of democratic processes in Croatia as well as the Croatian state creation project. From 89th to today, we have had several phases of relations with the European Union and, in general, towards Euro-Atlantic integration, from myth through mystification and to the real policy which has obviously led to a parliamentary speaker today, practically all representatives of parliamentary political parties in the situation that it is unquestionable that Croatian commitment to the European Union is treated as something of Croatian interest. But it is also evident by the debates so far as there is a certain kind of consensus that he and in this consensus are treated in different ways and looked at the attitude of Croatia's policy towards European integration. In the 1990s, the Croatian public had a relationship with the European Union, I said almost mythically, because with the parallel battle for national independence, entering European integration meant affirmation of this national struggle. Unlike most other European Union countries, the new European Union countries, which were fortunate to have no war armed for their independence, Croatia had to fight parallelly to raise European standards in Croatia, and to say first and foremost bare survival, to preserve Croatia's independence, which, of course, slowed down certain European processes. It is often in the Croatian public and treated and then it begins and stories about how and how to go towards the European Union, when, in my opinion and the opinion of the Croatian Party, rights have happened to some things towards Croatia which, in our opinion and then today, have not been politically or correctly founded when treatment of certain Croatian moves or policies as non-European standards has been set. I remember one situation, I was a member of a parliamentary committee at a seminar in Dubrovnik, where one of the guests was also the European Union Ambassador to Croatia, Mr. Pervin... On one question, how is it that Croatia, Benigno my question, that Croatia did not enter the Phar programme, is loudly, calmly in front of 15 witnesses who were sitting at the time of parliamentary representatives, most of them are not here today, that was the mandate between 95, said that Croatia was already practically ready for the Phar program, but that Croatia was warned very clearly that if it were to walk the armed route to solve the problem so-called. Krajina, you'll give up getting into that Phar program. Clearly, then, in such a way, the desire to influence can also be said of those standards that are spoken of here today. It only says that it is common, I think because of interest, because politics is always a conflict of interest, national, political each, and due to different interests, Croatia has been treated in one way and incorrectly in some segments when it has used its legitimate right to defend and create a Croatian state and to round up its territory internationally recognised state. Also, there were talks here today and the isolation of Croatia. It is true that Croatia was for a time in some kind of polysolation, but also for what? Due to the situation that in the 1990s Croatia had a different relationship and according to the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it also had a different relationship according to the way of reintegration of Croatian territory. She had one way of relations and different than today and relations with The Hague tribunal, for the simple reason that in the 1990s an attempt to make Croatia so... was considered incorrect and unfair. Of course it was all slowing down, so-called. European processes, which are slow, but surely, I don't think they could have been carried out before. Because any sudden or I would say by a shortcut to meet certain standards, if they were all standards at all, and it was often done by the simplest whims of individual officials from the West, and I say again because of interest something against Croatia, someone had something, but because of interest, which one state has interests in these areas, the other has such. And we were well in these international relations, unfortunately, and object, because in the war we created an army, we created diplomacy in the war, and it was all a difficult battle with perception in the Croatian state, which then appeared as an unwanted child in many establishments around the world, it was all printed up with this story of these 15 years of Croatian aspirations to become a member of the European Union. Two years ago, we spoke here for the first time more openly about the European Union when I warned on behalf of the club that 80% and more, 82% of Croatian citizens clearly opted for Croatia to enter the European Union, so it was just over 2 years ago, but at the same time 85% of Croatian citizens were for the extradition of General Bobetka to The Hague. Then, for the first time, it was said here in the Croatian Parliament that these were political conditions that were being set before Croatia, so I had to make it simple until the end in a way that also meant the extradition of General Bobetko to The Hague if we wanted to make a higher instance of entering European integration. It is logical that such political conditions are, above all, the conditions that have been put before us to a good extent through the last... For several years in the Croatian public, I would say the undisputed support that the Croatian public has given to European integration for years, and today, my colleague Tomcic has warned and said that today the support of the Croatian public has been reduced to half, perhaps a percentage more or perhaps less, according to some relevant polls on support for Croatian public entry into the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This certainly warns all of us political parties who are gathering consensually on the project of Croatia's entry into the European Union. The acceptance of standards cannot be really questionable for democratically-oriented parties in Croatia's political life but surely it is, I would say an even easier story of harmonising legal regulation than those things that are still practically before us and that have not yet been spoken of today, so I will warn with one or two sentences. HINA announced today the news that without a positive opinion... The negotiations will not open on 17 March, it will be a disappointment for all, for Croatia and for the EU, etc., said Mr Rehn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's he saying? This says that Croatia needs to do today, the Croatian Parliament of this declaration, we will support it, etc., but the question is what if three, four months from now, the problem of co-operation with The Hague Court is resolved. And in the declaration that is proposed and often spoken in our politicians' speeches, it is said that it supports unconditional co-operation absolutely or full co-operation with The Hague, so it would be good to discuss the same thing once, but I say without the last thought when it is critical to say that someone is against co-operation with The Hague, because we had a climate created in the Croatian Parliament at the time when you have some critical observations on some events, some laws that you are treated or as an opponent of national minorities, or that you are treated as a Eurofob, or I don't always know something was treated in the exact opposite of what was wanted to ask questions which were often unpleasant wanted something to be opened up as a problem and see how to further reflect it. Therefore, what would be the full co-operation with The Hague? If this has not been enough to resolve this problem, it turns out in the end that as long as the problem of Ante Gotovina has not been solved, the way he is arrested and forwarded to The Hague will make it almost certain that Croatia will, at least according to the statements of competent European people from that policy, that Croatia will practically not start real negotiations with the European Union. And now I'm going back to the early 1990s, which is why I had this introduction and today what if we really were asked a question in negotiations when they started that Croatia, as counterpart Tomcic said, would not get a year's delay in the story of real estate. How will we then behave, or whether we have the possibility of some kind of more serious negotiation, or whether the situation will come to terms with what you take or leave. No, we don't like to hear in our club the story of intimidation in a way or this, therefore, acceptance of these conditions or I don't know what we're going to call all this or the isolation or the Balkanisation of Croatia. This general policy in which procedures must not be critically discussed, that this process towards the European Union must not be critically discussed is the worst possible service in the fight against creation... in Croatian society, on Croatia's accession to the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Full openness, full clarity, visibility of all moves without any beauty, this is the only time, the only model for Croatian politics to go to in the next period. We're sharp opponents in our club of clear determination of some of our dates to np. We should have negotiated in 2007 to meet all these conditions, because any limitation makes it practically difficult for our negotiators, who, if they have the goal of negotiating in two years, have to make systematic big concessions to other negotiators who, throughout the whole story, have hundreds of experiences, I would say, not to say thousands of officials who have been negotiating so much for years that their business with Croatia will be easier for them at this point than it could be 15, 20 years ago, etc. And unlike those of us who, for years, had to work hard to get first of all international recognition, Croatian affirmation, the fact that practically our economic diplomacy does not exist, the question is how and how will our negotiators be able to deal with such a challenge that is ahead of them in the first place. We believe that this work that is ahead of us and which practically must protect the maximum Croatian national interests as far as possible within these frameworks from ensuring territorial integrity to resolving... questions with our neighbours, to the protection and maintenance of Croatian national identity, culture, tradition, language, etc., and to the particularly sensitive parts of the negotiations with the Union on the availability of real estate, especially agricultural and forest land, that special insurance is the exception of transitional reasons, that these are things that should indeed be defined through the National Council, if necessary through the Croatian Parliament, the level of lower levels under which Croatian negotiators would not go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have heard here today a statement by the Prime Minister that it is a practice that the Government determines a strategy because something may be somewhat different from how we, at least I wasn't at a meeting yesterday but so far talked about the government determining a strategy, etc., which in itself is logical but then cannot be expected to share the same responsibility of all the factors and all the factors involved in this process. From the opposition, at least I speak on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights, we are also expected to support all these efforts, to support this whole story of the European Union and also to be equally responsible for those negativitys that will certainly appear in Croatian society in various phases, negotiation processes and final negotiations. In the HSP, as much as we will try and support the negotiations, we will retain for ourselves the right to absolute criticism, it is unacceptable for us to say that the subject of the European Union must not be a topic of day-to-day political confrontations, just the opposite, we in Croatia have the right to hold that it is precisely an indication that this is an out-of-the-way story, that the parties must give a strong warning to each other and especially the opposition to the government because the government will bear the main burden of all these negotiations, to warn the situations when from several of our aspects of certain political parties it feels that things are not going in the same direction that this political option that represents something in Croatia's political life that things do not go well during. I caution once again that almost half of the Croatian public has become untrustworthy of the European Union, or perhaps it is a mistrust towards Croatian politics. Perhaps she has not been able to stand in a more firm position in all these processes for all these years. Of course, that job about, about these talks and negotiations isn't easy, it's not easy. We can't overestimate ourselves, but we can't even underestimate ourselves. Croatia no matter what, this is my colleague Cain speaking, I don't think we're Switzerland, but we could have become Switzerland. The European Union must not become an alibi for incompetence. The European Union must not become an alibi for all those Croatian political structures that were in power, government and so on that failed in 15 years of Croatian renewed states have failed to meet those standards that we have pursued. The entry into the European Union itself will not solve all these problems. The European Union will not solve us if we ourselves do not solve our education or our health care or our own, our agriculture. All this work is waiting for us, and he could have done well without inviting a mythic appeal to the European Union, I would have said often and servitude as the first Croatian president once upon a time, after... in the large how small nations know how to slave with great ideas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have that need. So Croatia wants to join the European Union. The political parties in Croatia have therefore clearly defined themselves, but there are certainly differences between us on the pace, on the content, on the topics which, which are priority because something that may be priority will be ours. Someone else won't be a priority, so the legitimacy of those who gain the trust of the Croatian electoral body will therefore have the legality. Therefore, the Croatian government. That's why she must bear both the burden and the success of the possible but also the failure. And for that reason, we as a party and as a club in the Assembly will support this in further processes all that we consider to be really good for Croatia and there is also a pretty good mood for agreements and I would say concessions, but if we consider that some things are below what we estimate that the minimal interests that face directly are, with some of our basic settings of our programme, then of course we will have to be sharply critical. Let's just say a few things. How the government will behave about the story, about the fishing-environment zone. How will the Government behave on open issues with Slovenia? I'm just talking about some here border, some, some problems. About the Ljubljanska banka. I'm just talking about neighbors. We're not going any further. These are all issues that will have to be discussed on that council, that I do not speak to the UN tribunal in The Hague. If this wrinkling continues and we get further news that Carla del Ponte is very concerned with, in terms of Croatian co-operation. And that in her hands, it still clearly depends on whether the negotiations will begin on 17 March. And this is already one of the questions that we must actually see these processes, Croatia's integration processes towards the European Union, and for that reason, I do not express a skepticism towards the European Union when we speak like this, but we would say the reserve and the skepticism towards Croatian readiness, so Croatian policies, therefore, not the people. At this point, it seems to me that the people are more reserved than political parties are towards European integration. How we're gonna behave in that whole story. I've even heard the story here that the public needs to be educated. It's almost... the word to be enlightened about what the European Union is, however, I would say that at this point the Croatian people should also be well heard and heard that he is unhappy with something about European integration and that we must take account of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we'll take care of it in HSP. We'll help Mr. Negotiator in charge, but... We also supported you to be the chief negotiator, and to Ms. Secretary to be the host, but we will surely retain our right whenever we assess it, we are critical of what we think should be criticised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30523	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the SDSS Club, colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30524	Madam Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, this is the reason for our discussion today, the documents, the proposals for documents sent by individual political parties including the party to which I belong, the SDSS, and the proposals for a declaration and proposals for a joint statement, as well as decisions on the formation of a national board of instruments are twofold in character. Duplics in this sense show that Croatian political parties have the necessary common ground for negotiations. And this is an indicator of those with whom Croatia will enter into negotiations. It's not a question of either of these or those political parties and it's not even a question of just governments. And in that sense, of course, that fact doesn't need to be overrated, but it needs to be given the necessary importance. On the other hand, this fact is an important message both for the Parliament itself and for the internal political life. Because that kind of internal negotiation or that kind of internal conversation or that kind of internal agreement should raise no doubt the level of standards of political action, political performance and political relations within Croatia. And in this sense, these documents that we should adopt tonight are the first species, the first step towards the manifestation of a kind of European behaviour both in the Parliament and among political parties. I believe so. The period of non-productive as many counterproductive divisions in Croatia should be behind us. Divisions that actually allowed illegality, which allowed there to be more sacred things than the laws that this House votes. That there are sacred things more sacred than government officials and those who should serve the people according to his will, or by the letter of the law that this House is voting. That's how I see it. That's how I understand it. So I don't understand the ambitions of these documents in terms of now we're going to determine exactly what framework we can move within, as far as we can go, or to strictly assign some kind of homework to those who will negotiate on behalf of the government or on behalf of the state. No, I don't. No, I don't. This first, neither is this story of a large coalition that is heard nor is it talking about a great cooperation that is also heard. It's simply that people in political life are able to bring back what this House needs. The place from which words will be heard that the documents, the laws that come from this House, will be given them the relevance they need to have in society. And now allow me one thing. The issue of The Hague that is often discussed here. Very often, elements that do not have the character of respect for the law and the Constitution are attached to this issue. After a long period of war, quite, a year of war, it is understandable that it should be given, to have that kind of character. Respect for what someone contributed. But at the same time, at the same time, if there will be people, individuals of a group that will be above the law and beyond the law, then it is quite clear that we at home will not be able to have an order that will be in line with those standards that our citizens expect. And in that sense a good part of the assumption of successful negotiations as many have shown here actually we can do at home. This is where some of our colleagues said I should be given assignments to our colleagues who would negotiate. It's clear he needs that. But most of the work we do most of the work is about the government's biggest diocese of the work that concerns the representatives of the state administration and the administration needs to be done at home. At home. And now let me say two words in that sense three about one thing that seems particularly important to me and that other colleagues and colleges have pointed out. While we were doing this declaration, a good part of its content was related to the economic theme. And that's good. And that's necessary. However, the production of goods that people are not meant for life is not enough for us to have good company. It's not enough to have a good country with which people will be satisfied. Of course, there is a system of good value production. And I think it's a chance to say something about it. The production of a system of good values that will be consistent with our tradition and that will be harmonised and with European values is also an important obligation for us here in the Parliament and outside the Parliament. And if we can look for a part of the answer to the question why people have no confidence and why so much infidelity is what we can expect from the Union, and why this enzymeism has fallen apart, is because there is no system of values in which today the average person in Croatia believe. 'Cause it's all rocked up 'cause a lot of things are unscathed. Including the work we do. Including what many people swear, which is the state itself. Just because those vital elements on which the state needs to rest good administration, legality, and transparency in making decisions actually does not exist. And so many people believe that there is one opportunity that politicians will once again take to achieve something for themselves and not for the benefit of the people. In this respect, the question that we as the forerunners of one national minority, and I believe that that is what the representatives of other national minorities in the Republic of Croatia think is our civic, patriotic duty, to make Croatia, together with others, as soon as possible to create assumptions for its own internal arrangements and for joining the Union. But of course it won't be possible and it can't be possible by giving in to unhealthy compromises or by looking through your fingers. It's a firm determined insistence on what I've already mentioned. Including, of course, the question of minority rights. Including, of course, refugee returns, including of course, the issue of strengthening local self-government. Including, of course, the issue of strengthening all sectors of civil society. In this regard, it should not be specialised that this level of consent achieved is not a level of silence. Rather, the level for a new quality of discussion in the Parliament and beyond. This is not a consensus to give up each other's confrontation and struggle for a better state in the country. On the contrary, only to raise the level of this discussion. That I don't listen to what we used to listen to here and not watch what we used to watch outside the Parliament, that's how I understand it. And if that's how we all understand it here, then it's pretty clear we're on the right track. And with the right direction and of course with the right convictions in his head. Here we heard somewhere in the beginning that I am not now speaking another, a vocabulary that is not suitable for what is actually a European send. Europe was created to dominate its internal regional and other stereotypes. Europe, among other things, was created to overcome both the cold war and the consequences of the Cold War. And that is why the issue of Croatia's place in Europe in relation to neighbouring countries cannot be understood or understood as the question of Croatia's Europe, Croatia's Balkans. It's a lady and gentlemen language that belongs to a different time and it's completely non-European. Therefore, the issue of Croatian membership of Western democracies or not belonging to Western democracies is a language that actually belongs to the Cold War period. Where we don't have liberal democracy today. Where we have severe conflicts. But wherever we have a minimum of peace everywhere we have a minimum of security, today is a dominant political idea, a liberal democracy. So what is the refuge which is the foundation of Western political values. Territorially share them, or enter into a political discourse, of course, that's not good. And of course we are losing credibility as a new member of the European family in this regard. And go back to what I think is most important in what I wanted to say. Europe is a community of states set up in a way that was agreed between the first and the later ones to join. But Europe really is a system of values. A system of values that is possible to say something but cannot be silenced when something is said that is inadmissible. Europe is a system of values in which it is possible to create something that is evil but cannot be left unsanitary. Europe is a system of values in which it is possible to give priority to production or development aspects but cannot be insensitive to social issues. And social justice. And in this sense, as a member of this work Mr Hole, I must say that we have failed to add or even point out one element in this Declaration, which is, of course, a question of social justice and social justice mechanisms which both Croatia and its Constitution, and, by its European definition, is ready to respect, to develop and to strengthen. And if possible, this Declaration to be further complemented, I think in that provision where the economic aspect is spoken of. There is one sentence that speaks of social justice and social sensitivity, that it should be strengthened in an additional paragraph, i.e. further clarified. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30525	Thank you very much. And the last Club of Representatives, respected representative Josip Sudec on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retirement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30526	Ladies and gentlemen, let me at first say that strategic commitment and even certain tactical commitment given by Mr. Mimica is fully accepted. We think it's one platform from which we have to go and stand for it. So, however, you wouldn't talk about that platform. I'd like to talk about something Mr. Tomcic has done here, and what's ahead of us. We represent a population called Croatian pensioners. Retired people are the oldest, but also the most conservative group that sees this little life ahead of him live as well as possible, as calmly as possible. All polls say that our pensioners are for Europe, but visits from Europe suggest that we are not welcome as we are and that we must change. What do you change it into? So change our pensions and health care. Two visits came from the World Bank, one is said directly that we are too expensive for the state and that we need to think about coming down to reasonable spending frameworks. How did we pensioners interpret? We've interpreted it as a reduction in pension incomes. As the other social groups interpreted it, you can imagine. The result was 70 or 69% of pensioners are against entering the European Union, and they have children, and children want better. But it also needs immediate survival. The IMF gentlemen are coming in and they're telling us nicely, "my lady, out of these 50% average pensions, forget about the average salary." And as for the formula, we'll apply the Swiss formula to you. And when the pensioners hear about Switzerland, they think the formula will also apply to the Swiss pension. Not on a Swiss pension, on ours, which will take just 50% of the cost of living and 50% of the salary growth. And not like we now have a harmonisation to salary growth. And it comes a second time to the IMF and it says, "you know, in Croatia you have too many rights in health care, you have to participate even more." Retired people, as we are, each of us four diseases, are always with the doctor, etc. We set out a certain part, but the question is, will this Europe reduce our rights as well? I suggest. We are not against Europe, we have to go to Europe, but let us direct our shows, our discussions to that end to encourage them to think positively. And we pensioners and citizens without employment and citizens who have not received salaries, etc., and we open up in the Declaration what Mr. Pupovac here said, let's open up a chapter of social policy. She should be the subject of negotiations. We are talking about this economic policy, we are talking about one word of social security, but we are not talking about this social sensitivity that should put our changes towards Europe first. And to conclude, we're for accepting the Declaration. We ask that this, in this part, be filled in, and we must all act together in a complementary way to create a positive mood. Not just for the pensioners, but for everyone. And those who, through various seminars and discussions, say that the pensioners will be the hardest, I think we should refute them. Yeah, well, if the kids are gonna be all right, then we're gonna get the pensioners, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30527	Thank you. The club debate is over. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30528	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll try to be brief because I think it's necessary to highlight some important things. I will come from one of our own sayings of our people, saying, "If you go into the unknown, walk in small steps." And this should be our main strategy in the negotiations to join the European Union because it is important, above all, the quality of the negotiations... negotiations. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And if we behave like this, then we can secure and have a common ground in all these situations. Because let's be aware and realistic, a joint statement and the Declaration mean nothing or commit anyone. They express the view that is generally known to this Parliament. If we were to join the European Union, but to join the European Union so that we will take care of the Croatian man, Croatian citizens and so that they can improve their standard of living, so that they can live better. And we with negotiations like this, breaking down, so we're not going to do anything important with big steps because speed doesn't mean quality, and it doesn't mean when. Therefore, the most important thing to expect is the resolution and the strategy of the negotiations. The resolution of the sea, the resolution must set objectives, and the strategy should be determined how and how we will negotiate to protect both national interests and everything else. And so we rightists are not Eurosceptics, we are Eurorealists. Because it's a sad fact that we're tripping... Those who were on the move for Europe in the 1990s were on the move for Yugoslavia. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Skeptics and they're Euro-lovers and they're taking us to Europe now. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So we're totally Eurorealists, which means we're going but not at the cost of giving everything we have left of family silver. Let us be aware of Europe and the natural resources of Croatia, Europe is interested in water, Europe is interested in agricultural land, Europe is interested in forest land, and Europe needs Croatia for its own sake, because every negotiation is a question and a realisation of its interests. If we let the water buy us out as it happened in Bolivia and still that Bechtel got concessions and they raised such prices of water that even people were charged for collecting rainwater, they could pick up only 25 liters and everything else was charged to them, then the people rebelled. According to us, I'm particularly concerned that people ask me on the road, says why now so much unity between HDZ and SDP, and I have to say in that part that it's really a little bit of a concern because we can't easily realize the interests of citizens and it's a little bit, I say people on the road ask me and stop me and I agree with that part. ... Now, let's keep looking at the National Committee. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The National Committee, we've looked at the decision, I don't know what the role of this National Committee will play. I don't even know what Mr. Arlovic was doing, but that National Committee is there some kind of ficus, a decoration that can be said, even there, by me will have less authority than the board, from the Parliamentary Committee. There he is, saying in one part that he, the chairman of the board, writes fine, says through the chairman of the board he maintains regular consultations and exchanges information with the president of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament. Well, we can come to the President of the Parliament any minute, we don't need the board president, right, when we're in session and everything. If we want to do what needs to be done and this means that this committee has some power to direct the negotiators, to establish the platform then we put it on but then we go to the variant that is in the European Union to make decisions and to have the right to veto. If the veto is set, then we put it on the plenary session and discuss it. And we're going to have this decoration, a committee that won't have any authority because the situation itself is visible. Be careful, our intention was to be a whole professional team and a professional body that here in the Croatian Assembly will be a service to all of us, but this professional service of these few people means nothing or we will, which is basically a situation that we have, we have nothing. In this we mean all that is good and all that is done well there is government and government negotiators, which is not good then the government will tell us all you were in it, all of you were responsible. Let's establish a resolution, establish a strategy, fight for those interests and determine the negotiators as well. Look, the fact that I've heard that the negotiating teams are going to be secretary of state doesn't mean much to me. You know why it doesn't mean much? Over the last year, we received a significant number of regulations, we know what the non-quality of these regulations is. Therefore, if these people who have delivered such laws to us here, and said the seal of the European Union Ministry is also struck that it is harmonised, I do not trust them. I don't believe that. So let's put in a public tender. Slovenians held public tenders for the selection of the negotiating team. If we want to do what we want to do. And that means we can all be responsible and take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30529	Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30530	So no matter what you have to...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30531	Please, MPs and MPs, let's listen to the representative. Let's let him speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30532	And now let's look at a very interesting question that I, the rightists, cannot accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30533	It's not worth it again, it's not worth it again. A colleague of Kovačević just a little please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30535	Please focus.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30536	I'm still, I can see it's of great interest to vote, so I'll just say one important thing. And Prime Minister Sanader said, but in terms of the political issue, we are required to cooperate fully with The Hague. For us co-operation with The Hague cannot be political, but it must be a legal issue. So there must be a legal question, and even in the sense that I asked the Prime Minister this morning about the need to determine whether the transcripts from July 31st 95 were forged, there are a lot of indications, a lot of evidence that there is a reasonable doubt that they were forged, and we also know that the Hague prosecution got it from Croatia. And Croatia like that can say whether it is forged or not. So let's move these things to legal issues, not just political issues. Because when someone tells me full cooperation with The Hague, it means let's all hunt General Gotovina. Let's do what we have to do and what we should have already done, let's do it, and then let's make a resolution, make a strategy, determine people who will defend Croatia's interests and not perhaps make sure that one day the European administration ends. Because there are such... stories, to end the European administration. So let's not run away from what's waiting for us. We've got a hard job ahead of us. We must be responsible and we must defend our interests through the Croatian Parliament and not only take responsibility but try to influence timely and direct negotiations because this way does not lead to anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30537	Thank you. Minister of European Integration Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30538	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to talk about the negotiations because for those of you who listened, I gave a longer speech here in the Parliament today. I think that we have all really pointed out in our speeches that protecting national interests is one of the fundamental objectives. What I would like to explain at this point and what we did not look at in our presentations is the composition of a negotiating team, i.e. 12 to 13 negotiators. We can't even say that they will be state secretaries or that they won't be state secretaries, I'd just like to repeat the criteria that we agreed on, which is, firstly, that they will be experts, professionals who are valued in their field of work, who speak well English, who are good negotiators, who are capable of teamwork, and I would say for one part of that team, really, a criterion must be the knowledge of the very problems and the 80 thousand pages of the acquis that will be negotiated. So even when it comes to negotiations, I wouldn't say we're talking about a stranger because it really all stands on those 80,000 pages of acquis. Let's wait a few more days to agree on the composition of the team to and it is a consensus solution, I assure you that it is indeed the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, myself personally and the chief negotiator of Mr. Drobnjak that we have agreed together with the presidents of other political parties who have representatives clubs in the Croatian Parliament that we will indeed put together a team that will not be any party negotiating coalition but will be a team of experts who will negotiate to achieve the best possible positions for Croatia and protect the national interests maximum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30539	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Vice Vukov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30540	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So at these moments when we're about to accept this sophisticated, together to say this joint declaration, this common text. It's not my intention to pollemize, but somehow it would be dissonant even though there could always be some objections, but I don't think this is the time. And I'll tell you from another point of view that I think was never touched. I find this a moment to recall the fact that in the long and dramatic history of Europe, there have already been more attempts to unite the continent. Let us remember the Imperial Rome, then later the papal Rome, which has been the only source of political European legitimacy for centuries. Then after that to ours, to Napoleon, to Hitler of our time and Stalin. All those attempts, all those attempts characterized by force. By force of one nation of armies, by force of some ideology or ideological culture, which was certainly worse tried to achieve the unity of the continent. This latest attempt, which has certainly been going on for a long time, has all prospects for lasting success, because it is the result of a different session and procedure, process and experience. He, in my opinion, is the objectification of a tragic experience. Defeat in II. World War I. We should know that this great, great war marked the defeat of all European nationalisms, and not only that of Germany, and the winners of the English, even those in my opinion were actually defeated. Because what kind of victory does this result in the loss of empires and world power? And the famous General Degol is of course from his memoirs it is visible, aware that only by the political will of America was...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30541	Maybe a little louder, a little louder, please. Some MPs, please a little louder, are not hearing enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30542	That's why I don't believe I'll be far from the truth if I say that Europe has finally succeeded. Only because she became aware of her weaknesses, i.e. Conscious of his fragmentation, his true defeat in II. The World War, thus defeating its traditional ideas of sovereignty. I am not sure that we are fully aware of nature here in Croatia, so this new European force that comes from this awareness of weakness. In these proposed resolutions, there were several today. Although shy, yet discreetly supervised, we are not sufficiently experienced, which is certainly understandable in the idea of our own state identity. So it seems that we are not fully aware of the fact that our entry into the European Union is an important part of our creation, our formation, not our disappearance. Some thinkers of Europeans already at the beginning of the last century pointed to the danger of the coming ideologys based on holiness or large social goals such as communism, or the sanctity of national sovereignty, such as all forms of fascism, these ideas and ideologies, were even infected. A young man who knew the answers to all the questions, eventually lost as one famous writer said, a habit of straining his ears and hearing what others were saying and thinking. In any case, the time of obsession with the glorious and heroic past is behind us. The former Austrian Chancellor Bruno Kaski has beautifully formulated that thought by saying, history has left Austria, which is why we Austrians are happy. Of course, when he told history, he didn't mean that event the time, but he meant the obsession with the past with the great heroic past. So I had to say all of this because it seems to me that we will be relatively easy to overcome technical tasks, formal adaptations to European standards. But we're going to have a hard time dealing with the skepticism and the fears that come up, because the fears of course go into the subconscious, and it's hard to get there. So we're going to have a hard time dealing with the fears, that by entering Europe, we're going to lose our soul and our identity. So it goes in parallel with all these efforts that we are now preparing to make sure that our man is convinced that by entering Europe in it we will not find how he wrote Thomas Man in his own time, saying about Europe at the time, that we will not find in it a large number of intelligent, elegant and arrogant individuals who patheticly gesture on the magical mountain of their illusions. But we will now encounter old cultures like ours who have learned a historical lesson and no longer believe in the national supremacy and domination of each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30543	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30544	Thank you, Mr. President, honored ladies and gentlemen, honored representatives of the government, honored chief negotiator. I have to admit, I share the skepticism of all those MPs who are aware that it's very difficult to talk about general places. It is also very difficult to speak against general places. We can only remember there the beginning of democratisation from the late 1980s, when certainly one European discourse was a desirable form of political representation, above all against that, against that environment within which we lived. But there was one big problem that it wasn't enough to stand up for something, if it was usually a completely empty notion for us, and if we didn't know that when you said something about something it was, then you should prove it by doing it. And that is why, in the 1990s, which had been submerged by this very European discourse and the desire for Croatia to be part of the European family, proved to be a failure, precisely because it was not considered necessary that we should also correct certain obligations in that fact. That is why today some colleagues have spoken with full law about this one mystification,... actually Europe, which is how we begin to approach this Europe is also showing some very different reflections, and then talking about Europhobicism, Euroscepticism or varying with what is called and I don't know Eurorealism. I think actually the whole problem with this, these 15 years of ours is that there is one more serious national strategy missing from us being Europe, which is Europe to us. And now I'm noticing, I hope I don't insult any colleagues, but we're showing some anxiety we'd already gone to the polls and we think we've absorbed all the topics and that that's the thing, that's some general dictatorship, general policy after January 3rd, and then 23rd. The 11th things have changed more, there have been assumptions that we are part of this European family and let's vote it out. So regardless of all of our doubts that are even here today, regardless of the consensus being proposed, it is still shown that many people sitting in this House have certain full-right skeptics, it is also a legitimate political view. I think this kind of debate should last so for weeks, months, that these are things that can't be broken within one, within one session, one session, just because we actually have to agree between ourselves and see if any of the behavior is actually passing, whether it gets the green light and whether or not we're just not really a society at that level that we can agree with some things and that we as a Parliament have actually such a policy of power in some way we can convince the citizens who have given us the confidence that this is good. Is it good, is it good to exercise the rule of law, whether it is necessary to strengthen the stability of institutions that foster democracy, whether human rights and freedoms should be respected, whether minority rights should be respected, and whether the political objectives of the Union should be accepted? I think you should. But it's not enough to say it ourselves, and we think we've solved all things. And I just think that all the problems actually arise when it needs to be implemented. What is the European Union? It's a very complex, complex environment that won't let us go, it's not a good teacher who understands then, so that a student should be let out of the second class because he's nice to know his parents rather than his dad, it's one very strict teacher who has one completely different behavior, who wants everything on my mind to be fulfilled, to be realized. Not a promise that we'll do it, but that we really have to do it. And we have to respond to this complexity of this environment with our own complexity, if we think it's possible then we're actually wrong, and then we'll actually keep coming back, so we don't know how some sectors in our society, segments of our society aren't ready, and then the most often mentions agriculture, and then we still don't know what's going on with fishing, and then we'll talk about how Norway behaves, and then the European Union's not really ready to monitor state interventions in shipbuilding, so then we'll remember what's going on with our shipbuilding, and then we'll actually get the problem of buying real estate, so it's very good, but the real estate wouldn't be able to sell, and then we'll remember that there'll be a certain skeptic in the public, and then we're actually running a rather unproductive debate that actually brings us back to the beginning. You can't talk about the free flow of people, values and goods and capital if I don't know you have one skeptic that someone can't sell but I don't know, then we'll get very easy and elegantly through the night and get rid of INE. And that, in fact, today is not clear to us what conditions we've done it under. And what we once said in a joke that we would like to see people, that is, examine the knowledge of the English language of those who did those sales negotiations, when we sold INU... because we haven't received a contract in Croatian yet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm saying, I don't doubt good intentions and good bargaining, but let's just say this clean, if this is how we wanted to be a little cynical why it was just as different. So, the European Union wants us to be able to buy real estate for the time being on the Adriatic, and I believe maybe in some other parts of the country, so then we care about editing our land books, so then actually they pay and participate in some of those projects that concern it, but then we don't know we have certain observations, certain remarks that would somehow delay it or that I don't know question one detail and then we think it's not good that it might not come up I don't know of any new... Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although I believe that this is not the purpose and goal of the European Union that Croatia could be... On the other hand, how to speak, when we speak, as we do, if we are entering the European Union, which means our own regional strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do I not know if 20 counties can pass in that story, 400, 500 municipalities or hundreds of cities as much as we have, or will actually change, and then actually Croatia can be the maximum country of five regions with its centers, and then perhaps this is the opportunity to open up a question about this famous even development of the Republic of Croatia that we like to call on, but most of the time we forget that one little fact, and then it is best read through a state budget that is not exactly in the function of even development. In fact as a member of this Parliament, as a member of the Liberal Party, as a man.../ The speaker shut down and re-enabled....which are part of the European Union and, in fact, in the end and Western European civilization and is not possible without those values, I would like us to actually agree that these things are really common places for us... like, like oxygen and without which we can't, so let's actually start talking, not like we're actually constantly surprise ourselves, and then we're going to prove and try to turn the European Union into some day-to-day political purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although I agree with my colleague Djapic that these are really issues that we have to open today and here and constantly because we have to tell citizens clearly and loudly that entering the European Union will not solve the problem of unemployment, it will not solve the problem of low wages, it will not solve some, I don't know, problem of municipal infrastructure, but rather I don't know that citizens will have to pay for the waste of garbage we are doing more according to European standards, but that is because I don't know in Germany 100 euros is not a problem and in God for our citizens 100 euros to allocate for one such activity, for one such service it is quite a big amount of money. These are the things we have to say, which we must in some way actually protect our negotiators from giving them that, give them that... So they can negotiate on our behalf. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I say, indeed once again as a man who deeply shares European values from those late 1980s and constantly, and even then protesting when we had ourselves, when we allegedly had a European discourse, but our content of this discourse was not adequate to those values. I would actually like us, to talk, or this one of the declarations, about the national state, about the people who will participate, to be a permanent subject of this Parliament, and not to say that we simply take it as a task that we have here today, on 19 January at the beginning of this, of our new session of Parliament, and that, in fact, after that, we have to return to the issue of tourism, of real estate, of fishing, of the issue of shipbuilding and of our regional differentiation, and that we actually have the same problems in the month or even before. It means that, but for this national strategy to be a matter, it will be a daily practice of this Parliament, and this Parament must in some way be a service to our negotiators who will negotiate under conditions that will be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30545	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30546	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government. I have now checked with my colleagues from HSS, this year is the 100th anniversary of the famous part of Stipica Radića Europa, to be reprinted these days, I thought he was 31 years old, it seems that he was 34 years old when he printed the work that reflected the intellectual attitudes of the then political elite against Europe. We should actually determine today what kind of document we want to go to the Croatian public on behalf of the Croatian Parliament. We've received six party resolutions or declarations related to this topic that are individually better than the composites that formed the theory of pairing with scissors by some writer. I think the best of those six documents, it's hard for me to say the SDP and HSS document that is complete, but it has two, two elements in it that may be incompatible. The first element is the declarative character in the context of the start of the negotiations and this should be the document that we should decide on today. This set is simply a reflection of the state of the spirit in this high House and the desire to reach a compromise on the principle of the smallest common denominator. I think it's a bad solution and it would be good to make an extra effort and find one writer. It would be best if it were Slavko, Stanko Lasic, for many reasons that on two, three or four pages would bring our view of relations between Croats, Croatia, the European Union, Europe, the Western Balkans and our neighbourhood in this delicate time. If that is not the case, if it insists on voting, it would be good for the document to express the state of European spirit today in Croatia. A few speakers talked about it. We don't have homogeneous or unitary attitudes in Europe. We still have the dominant positive attitude towards the European Union and Europe, which is measured somewhere above 50% today, let's say that's 60 percent. We have a Euro-comfort position that is about 30 percent and Euro-topic or Euro-sceptic views at 10% level. It would be good for the document to express the pluralism of pro-European, anxious European and anti-European attitudes because up to 10 years and anyway, this document will be read as some kind of mirror of time. That's my first thesis. The second thesis concerns the programming framework. Today you have heard from the Prime Minister and this is a common practice for the European Union to develop either a general or a specific negotiating framework for all candidate countries. For the chief negotiator that I am, here and publicly congratulating him, and I'm glad that he was appointed to that place, it would be good to have some kind of negotiating platform. In old times, in times of Communism it was called guidelines, negotiating guidelines and this notion is not as bad as it is attributed to a time that is no longer popular even though the popularity of that time is increasing from day to day, unfortunately whether it is. So what would be the purpose of these negotiating guidelines? She would, they would make it easier for both the main negotiator and the negotiating team. With regard to the negotiating team, it would really be bad if 12 people who do not have the time to go to some kind of public or invitational competition with the right and obligation to hear those 12 or 13 negotiators from the parliamentary committees were to check their specific knowledge, not language knowledge and knowledge of the institutions of the European Union or of the documents themselves, but to have general knowledge of the areas within which they should speak. As far as the National Committee is concerned, I agree with those views that say that this imagined national committee doesn't make much sense. If the job could then have been done by the Parliamentary Committee on European Integration, perhaps with some extended external members. As far as I'm concerned, I think we have one big debt, a debt to an institution that's been excluded from the membership proposal on the national committee. Here it is proposed, proposed by one imaginary representative of the academic community. The notion of the academic community never meant anything, and today it means less than that. So you should say, give room for several institutions to find places on that national committee that should have one special and more serious rules of procedure. First of all, I think that there should be room for a representative of the European movement in Croatia. There, there is Mrs. Maria Pejcinović. It belongs to the category as well as I of those people who founded a European movement in Croatia, whose merits are to maintain faith in Europe and to advocate the development of European standards, customs, standards and "jusus" behaviours in Croatian social, cultural and political life. I think we should therefore find a place for a representative of the European movement. For many reasons, it should be found in this national committee of places and for a representative of the pan-European Union, which is slightly more traditionally targeted. As far as we are concerned, the very fear of our people towards europeanisation is unique to all small European peoples. So not only was the song "More Croatia has failed", but the Polish anthem has less, more in its content, because the fear of small European peoples about drowning and destruction than the great European peoples is very rational and very objective. And another little bit of illusion. We can't have illusions. We will negotiate and Mr. Drobnjak will negotiate the frameworks of symmetry where we are forced to accept the fact that we are negotiating with Big Brothers, with a "Great Brother" who has virtually no great interest in this area. The fact that we are beating ourselves that we are the smartest, the oldest, the most beautiful European or the worldly people, that we have the most beautiful coast, the highest lakes or whatever we want for Europe is us and we will remain a problem for years. Her interests in this space are clearly defined by two axioms which I will repeat and it would be good for one of them to be found and in that declaration whatever we call it. The first, in the past few years, has appeared in a number of documents from different European institutions that the European integration process will not be completed until Southeast European countries join the European Union. It's a very important attitude. The second is that the European Union has practically invested about six and a half billion dollars in the wider area of Southeast Europe in the last 10 years. Perhaps, perhaps, Mrs. Pejcinovic will correct me and in the next 4 years or 5 years, that amount will exceed around EUR 11 billion. The European Union has about 36,000 troops in the wider Western Balkans, about 1,000 police officers. There are two protectorate systems, one in Kosovo, one in Serbia, another in Macedonia, and a large semi-protectorate in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to say all in all: that it would be good to postpone the vote, to create a bit of pathetic but enough skeptical document that would be called a declaration of relations between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia in the context of the start of the negotiations and to create a more serious negotiating platform that could be called whatever you want to be a framework for the Croatian chief negotiator and the main one, and a negotiating team because the other party will have very clearly defined negotiating frameworks and that neither Mr Drobnjak nor those people find themselves in an unfortunate situation to have to consult either the Government or the European Ministry of Integration or any other ministry, it would be good for him to get one such document on display.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30547	Thank you. And an even more respected representative of Alenka Kosića Cicchin Sain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30548	Thank you, Mr. President, for the debate, 6 documents have been proposed today that should show our will for Croatian citizens to join the European Union. Since it is a subject of national interest that already has some default and familiar frameworks, all the proposals of the text have some similarities in some common lines while this more careful analysis reveals some seemingly small differences. Given that declaration is primarily a political document, it is easy to see that each party takes one of the aspects of the negotiations with the European Union as an extremely important az of Croatia and seeks to integrate and point it in the text whether it is called a resolution, or a declaration. The resolution on the fundamental principles of joining the Republic of Croatia in the European Union is a more comprehensive joint proposal for SDP and HSS clubs and a step aimed at showing perhaps even a joint coalition performance in the next elections. So there are some language dissatisfactions that point to a misunderstanding of terminology in order to become a consensus around the text. For example, this applies to the head of the preamble part eight and let's say this part two. The resolution presents almost exactly the basic principles in which the author of the advances go unnecessarily into the width, and in detail. The resolution should be an act providing a framework for the work of the government's parliament and the negotiating team, rather than giving advice on taking up positions in one part of the pregovoor, so guidelines but not details of the proposals. It appears to be excessively ex ante to the 5th and 6th indents of the first point, as evenly or better proportionate representation should be assumed by the European Union rules as well as by ensuring the political, economic and financial position of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. In paragraphs eight and nine of the same proposal, the reduction of the right to dispose and the acquisition of real estate, where 60 days for the submission of certain drafts of the rules, which we see far too broadly and needlessly in this resolution. For example, the remaining indents state deadlines. as regards the acquisition of the ownership of foreigners over non-cretins, which comes from the framework of the resolution or the expression of a positive will on the accession of the European Union. And instead of guidelines to the negotiating team, what positions to take and how much delay to demand are required. I was disturbed by an imperative expression in the fifth point where relevant factors are called to participate instead of much more smoother formulations are called to participate. The explanation of the motion for a resolution contains the tendency to reach a high level of objective public information that some parties have been proposing in parliament for years and the question of what has been waiting for them so far is raised. In a proposal for a resolution on the fundamental principles of the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, the HSP representative club gave a clear and summarised preamble showing that HSPe has been very advanced in recent years and that much has been devoted to learning the European Union. Although it could still be classified into the euro of skeptics or as the euro of realists say. Immediately at the beginning of the resolution, they mention fundamental principles as a commitment. The binding HSP resolution is called so, it uses the word obligation as a sound phrase and does not say anything about any sanctions or deadlines for not fulfilling such an undefined obligation. And here, in one of the points of point 6, they mention the woods and sell the property to foreigners as an important topic. I believe that there is no room in the text of the resolution on this matter in this detail, but that these should be directed to the negotiating team of the Government, to the parliamentary committees or to the newly formed national committee. Club HDFor a proposal to declarify HDC ClubFor relatively clear, logical and which is important relatively general. These clearly point to significant shifts in civic awareness among people who write and edit the bill's proposals and European integration experts it is visible that all proposals have some common features of the geoplytic positions of the Republic of Croatia, the establishment of a national body committee to which parliament would be more intensively involved in the process of joining and the above all need for information obviously quite uninformed to the public. This proposal shall task the Government with ensuring the availability and objectivity of the information. Informing is a pretty important topic and we all emphasize it. The joint statement by the Croatian Parliament and the Government on co-operation on negotiating, on membership in the European Union, as a proposal for the HDFor parts of this document, do not differ significantly from the previous analysis proposal. In the summary two pages, it repeats the strong pro-European orientation of government in the Republic of Croatia and most of its citizens. The establishment of a national committee detailed in the document before is also mentioned. It is interesting that the HDZe calls for transparency in the conduct of the negotiation process and continuous public notification. Without serious objections to these two proposals and if the declaration is implemented in practice in the best way possible and within the shortest time period, this will be a serious indicator of the government's aspirations and HDZA. However, consistent practice in the Republic of Croatia is increasingly better looking on paper than in real life. The SDS proposal is the most modest in size and content, it is symptomatic that their proposal begins with a greeting of the European Council's decision on the date of the start of the negotiations. Point 2 is already bringing concern to the SDS about the possible interruption of the Europhilic idea in the highest spheres of government. Efforts to impose an obligation on parliament's next parliament to continue on its own track, however, have been exaggerated and have raised a number of questions about the SDS' political projections. Point 4 speaks of too specific issues such as refugee returns and their assets, co-operation with the Hague Court, and in general of war problems in the area of the former Yugoslavia. Point 6 is unambiguously declared that the Republic of Croatia has nothing against its neighbours or to their harm in this resolution with its desire to join the European Union. Totally vague. And in this declaration, the need for information is expressed even though not in such an explicit way as in the other proposals. And finally, the fact is that the Republic of Croatia is going unconstitutional towards membership in the European Union as well as the fact that due to lack of information, the number of Eurosceptics is growing. The proposed declarations of the resolution should go in the direction of setting up broader frameworks to express the purpose of the parliament to engage more actively in the integration process, as well as to direct and advise the government and the negotiating team. Some of the resolutions such as this SDP and HSS and HSP speak too widely about some aspects that fall into some lower level or at least some other document. The SDS proposal, however, puts their political field of action in the right plan, and introduces some very specific topics perhaps in another context. All parties express the need for a body that will connect parliament with the government and the negotiating team, thus making representatives of the Croatian Parliament an important partner in the process of joining the European Union. HSPe may go too far in that, but they're also driven by the same intention. It is commendable that all proposals reiterate the need for quick objective information and transparency of the process. We recognize all of this as a national interest, and we hope to approach it immediately. If only a dead letter remains on paper, the most damage will be to Croatian citizens who will draw from the media, journals, and coffee talks with acquaintances in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30549	Thank you very much. I am concluding a debate on these six points that have been held in a united debate. My colleagues and colleagues, please pay attention because we will stay longer. We now need to vote very carefully on the proposal for a declaration of the Croatian Parliament on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Please, who will explain on behalf of the task force which amendments and in what form and content both the working group and this political agreement of party and club presidents have accepted. Member of the Working Party of the Honorable Representative of Mimica. Neven Mimica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30551	Thank you very much, Mr. President, a working, inter-party task force to whom you have given the confidence to agree on the text on the basis of all five proposals from party clubs, on the basis of the debate which was led, identified the two elements to be declared, one was the amendment to the Declaration and the amendment submitted on behalf of the HSS Club, where, in paragraph 4, paragraph three, the declaration behind the word “best exemption and transitional period” proposes to add the words “and possible deviations”. Following a comparison with the terminology of the European Union, i.e. the legal property of the European Union, the working group assesses that this amendment can be accepted. In addition, the debate also presented a proposal for the entry into the declaration of the relevant text on social, social policy and commitment on the subject. And the working group proposes that, at the end of point 3 as the last item of that point, a text that would read, in line with its constitutional commitment as a state of social justice, the Republic of Croatia will seek to maintain and improve the level of protection of social rights and social policy mechanisms during the negotiations. The proposal is for working groups to accept such a supplementation of the declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30552	Thank you very much. We'll come to conclusions after the Declaration. So we should now vote on the Proposal for a Declaration of the Croatian Parliament, on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia on the European Union with these amendments and the additions which they have proposed, which were adopted on behalf of the working group by a working group representative who have thus become an integral part of the proposal of the Declaration. So we vote on that whole. So, I put on the vote of the Proposal for a Declaration of the Croatian Parliament on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union with the amendments and amendments adopted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that, with 103 votes for and 3 abstentions, the Croatian Parliament Declaration on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union is in the text as proposed by the working group together with the amendments adopted. Your colleague Pankretić, a colleague of Pankretić, is not worth sitting in second place. From the place where you usually vote there, you should sit. This isn't gonna help. They won't, why, don't change places so give it to you. Come on, the system will be in crisis, the system, if you're rocked by these rules. And now let's finally get some more, please just one more moment, to the proposals of the Association of Representatives Club of the HSS. Concealing proposals. Comrade Mimica, as regards the proposal...... All right, buddy Tomcic, here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] These conclusions are now in line with this proposal for conclusions, so please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30553	Can I come here from, like, a place? First, the first conclusion was, nothing changed. The second conclusion is changed and said: before the start of negotiations with the European Union, the Croatian Parliament will hold a debate on the Resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, which will be proposed by the National Committee. Point 3 is amended and read: the National Committee of the Croatian Parliament undertakes to establish negotiating guidelines for the conduct of negotiations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia before the start of the negotiations on a chapter. That's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30554	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30555	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30556	So I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the HSS Club in this amended and updated content that has been accepted. Please, get on with it. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 105 votes in favour and one against the adopted proposed conclusions of the HSS Club of Representatives. We would now move to; - Proposal for a decision on the establishment of a national committee, Proposer of the Decision is the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament; The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law apply when adopting this Decision. Here's the amendment. I would like the representative of the Croatian Vice-President Matu Arlovic's Office to explain the proposals of this Decision. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30862	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As you heard from the Croatian Parliament Presidency, the nominal holder of the proposal for a decision on the establishment of the National Committee, but behind this is actually a huge political effort to make a joint declaration, to make a joint statement, and this decision was implemented and made by representatives of our political, parliamentary parties throughout this time. The fact is also that each and every one of our parliamentary political parties, especially those who have submitted their proposals to the parliamentary procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30863	Mato, louder, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30864	... in the light of declarations or in the light of resolutions, to be adopted by the Assembly, they also asked for the establishment of a large or national committee depending on how someone used the term. Which would, among other things, lead, assist and, of course, ensure that the Parliament is quality and timely informed on the course of negotiations with the European Union and that it can take the appropriate and necessary measures in accordance with its constitutional powers in carrying out these negotiations on the one hand. On the other hand, at the same time as a representative body of all our citizens, it can inform and help to educate our public to prepare as much as possible not only during the course of the negotiations but for the final one, in fact a final decision when the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with our Constitution, most of the total number of voters must make a decision or vote in order to even join the European Union in a referendum. It should also indicate that the proposed resolution, if I may say so more precisely, of the Croatian Parliament on joint action in the negotiations process, for membership of the European Union between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament in paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9. is also called for the role of the Croatian Parliament through its National Committee and, of course, through the direct role of the Parliament through personal debate, or reporting by the Parliament through the National Committee. The Declaration of the Croatian Parliament on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union in points 6 and 7. Declarations, i.e. this joint proposal, of a harmonised proposal between all parliamentary parties. The decision to set up the National Committee has given you and as you know, it is based on Article 43. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which makes it possible to make a special decision on the establishment of other working bodies, which regulates their name, composition, part-cycle and way of work of the Croatian Parliament, and it, by its legal nature, is practically also procedural. She's a characteristic component of actually the Rules of Procedure later. It should also be pointed out that the basic task here is already in point 1. "to set up the National Committee as a working body of the Croatian Parliament to monitor the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union", and in point 2 is trying to enume some of the tasks, i.e. content from the competences of the National Committee, which should be carried out and, inter alia, to monitor and assess the course of negotiations, give an opinion and guidelines on behalf of the Croatian Parliament on preparation and negotiating positions, consider information on the negotiating process, consider and give an opinion on the issues to be reached during the negotiations. It shall consider and assess the negotiating activities of individual members of the negotiating team, etc., etc. Point 3 sets out the composition of the National Committee and, as can be seen, it is that we would have practically 3 groups of members of the National Committee, of the 3rd row. So, representatives of parliamentary parties in the Parliament. Then, the members and presidents of the individual working bodies, acting on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation. And of course, a special group, these would be outside members who would not have the right to decide, but would have all the other rights of board members, which are representatives of employers' associations, so not one but all employers' associations. Representative of the union, again in the crowd, representative of the academic community and president, or representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia. I will then return to this question which is very interesting and related to point 3 and point 2. And even to this extent, it is interesting that an amendment has appeared, which is proposed not to delete the words: "the Committee president maintains regular consultations and exchanges information with the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister of Croatia and the President of the Croatian Parliament". In fact, this is a very interesting constitutional issue and we had to find the possibility that all those involved in the creation, the implementation of foreign policy could contact, exchange information and opinions with the National Committee and allow the National Committee to carry out its part of the work on behalf of and for the purposes of the Croatian not only of the public but of the Croatian Parliament, and at the same time not to enter the constitutional powers. In this respect, the President of the Republic, as you know under the Constitution, may only have those duties established by the Constitution and in this respect we could not oblige the President of the Republic to attend the meetings of the National Committee and therefore it is not possible for the National Committee to contact the President of the Republic directly in its entirety or to invite him to those meetings, but may, through the chairman of the Committee. And in the end of the line, and it is the task of the President of the Working Body, it can be seen more precisely in Article 45(1), (2), (3), not to list all others, and where the President of the Working Body is required to obtain certain documents and information in the preparation of the meetings. And of course, in the context of the debate on this and that part, actually the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic can then participate more in the work, which is already feasible. A similar situation is also related to this question whether and with how many associations to take representatives on board. It could practically be extended to a huge number of members, even more than the Croatian Parliament itself, especially given the number of associations in Croatia, and each could find some small or greater interest in being present in the work of the National Committee. Of course it had to be rationalized in a certain way. I must express the satisfaction of the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament that the representatives of our parliamentary parties did well in these talks in fact renovate and evaluate and propose to be four external members. Why? Because in item 5, they added as a possibility that, in fact, when the issue that is important for the agenda negotiations process can be called upon by experts from different areas that are important for accession to the negotiations. So then, I don't know, when it comes to crafts, small entrepreneurship and crafts chambers, etc., etc., people who professionally deal with these issues, when it comes to some of the human rights and employment, then from these associations, etc., etc., may also be invited in such segments, they can certainly be professionally involved in the work of this Committee. Of course, like other outsiders, they will not then have the option of making decisions. Interestingly, I am also immediately answering the question whether the work of the National Committee can and should be attended by representatives of the representatives' clubs, or more specifically how counterpart Damir Kajin, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, proposes that they be the presidents of the Clubs of Representatives. Well, you see, according to our Rules of Procedure, the presidents of the club representatives have the status of president of the working body, and as you can see in item 5 of paragraph 2, reads: "at the meeting of the National Committee, the presidents of other working bodies may be invited", so the club presidents. But if it is good to repeat it again, I do not mind, in a substantive sense, accepting this amendment and putting behind the president of the working, other working bodies to put the presidents of the clubs in the Croatian Parliament, and then the text would continue "scientists and experts on individual issues and areas in force". I think that, in a substantive sense, we actually accepted the idea of this amendment. And for that, let me conclude, respected colleagues and colleagues. For constitutional reasons, Amendment No. 1 of our fellow Lesars could not have been accepted, if I may show myself, Mr. President. A similar situation is with Amendment No 2 concerning secrecy, i.e. non-disclosure, open and closed session of the Committee, the National Committee. I must say that it is accepted as a fundamental commitment, not because of the Parliament, not because of the Committee, but because of the European Union and because of the character of the negotiations, that the meetings are closed, but the public must normally be informed. And in such a situation, it is also important to suggest that this ensures that the principle of timely information of all interested and subjects who have to do so is respected, the Croatian Parliament. As a result, we could not accept this eventual 2nd amendment, and it is a similar situation, I also said about this representative whom my colleague Pecek is asking to accept and extend the number of external members to 5 to be a representative of the Association, i.e. the Chamber of Commerce. Here are my colleagues and colleagues so much I must say that it is mainly formal legal issues and, of course, constitutional legal nature that make it important for these issues to be brought into line. But at the same time, I must point out that I am the concept of a decision, its composition, part-circuit and, in particular, through point 5, which enables the invitation of external members to actually be included in another way, a working way through the work of this National Committee, and that, in the end of the line, if something had been missed, it would have been accepted by the general clause in point 8, a special position on issues which are not regulated by this provision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the work bodies and, as you know under those provisions, it is always possible to invite scientific, professional and many other interested entities to the meetings of the working bodies, and therefore this National Committee, when it comes to issues of interest in which they could contribute to the achievement of their mutual interest or special interest in the associated group. At the same time, of course, help the National Committee and the Croatian Parliament to take the most qualitative position in the report and debate on these issues, which will be of interest both to the Republic of Croatia and to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in negotiating with the European Union. Thank you very much. If there are any special questions I will try to answer as much as I can on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30865	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected MP Anto Djapic, quits. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a debate over the National, the decision to put a stop to the National Committee. Yes, yes, to open a debate. First, if you'll excuse me, he answered... And on behalf of the club, you've come to sign up on behalf of the club or on behalf of the club, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And when the amendments come. Okay. Then, on behalf of the HSP Club, a respected representative, Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30866	Thank you, Mr. President. We at the HSP Club keep it a little fast tonight with this. I think we've already managed to advance the big deal with the discussion of a possible consensus on a declaration that is what it is but I think, we've decided to support the declaration. However, in the proposal for a Decision establishing the National Committee, we did not take part in the preparation of this proposal. We also have a whole series of objections to the decision itself, in particular, I would say this order of procedures that we have agreed at least at the meetings so far, from first making a declaration, then making a resolution that would determine the starting points of view, after which the National Committee. We have no objection to the turn of order so that the first establishment of a National Committee would then possibly propose starting positions, resolution and strategy. However, the content of this decision does not show that it is in the national committee's ingenuities for which we held that it will play a very important role in front of the Croatian Parliament in relations with the negotiating teams. However, this proposal does not show this. That's why we at the HSP Club are proposing because today, we are, I said, a little bit of a push for this, and the debate has been cut short, and the topic is too important to delay the vote at least on this decision. We would even suggest that the vote be postponed and the first points discussed so that we can sort out a little bit of impressions and agree in clubs, see the amendments and then vote. I don't know what this is about, I think I can imagine why, but I don't want to speculate and speculate, I appeal and call on that if we need to have a debate about this decision, but in this form we won't be able to support it, we won't be able to support it. We haven't even written any amendments now because it's only been given to us now, I mean I can't do it on behalf of the party, in the name of the club I can't function in this way, so I suggest that at least the vote on this be postponed for tomorrow, or when it can be done. If he insists that the debate be held, but it is far from the role of this committee, from the spirit of what we have discussed. Even here, according to what is written here, how little has been discussed in the benches so far, this does not even have the power of the board of a parliamentary one, let alone that it has the role of that body which should practically play a very important role, perhaps a corrective and even the creators of Croatia's negotiating positions towards the European Union. Well, I'll cut it short, and I suggest that the general postpone the vote for tomorrow, and if that's impossible then at least on this point, because otherwise we won't be able to vote for the National Committee's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30867	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30868	I thank you, Mr. President. I would also ask on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS PGS if this debate can be postponed for several reasons tomorrow morning. First of all, it seems to me that this National Committee is too important to discuss at half past nine in the evening. Secondly, I don't think this debate will be long-term if we have a good time, or if we make a better look at the materials, and if we compare it with the other committees that are at the level of the Parliament that exist. I therefore join the opinion of the HSP because we would also not vote tonight for this decision. I think it would be appropriate given the importance of this decision...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30869	Please circle around a little quieter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30870	To get a more appropriate time for it, or in the morning, when it is possible to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30871	So if I understand correctly, you're suggesting that...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30872	The debate will be delayed for tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30873	Delay the debate on the Proposal for a Decision establishing the National Committee for tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30874	For tomorrow morning, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30875	For tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30876	If possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30877	Okay. Dear Representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of the Club Libre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30878	Mr. President, I also think it's a very important body and I think it's almost without a debate to accept a decision like this, I don't think it would be wise. And I'm only going to warn here one fact, and that's in point 5 of this decision talking about who can participate in the work of the National Committee. According to this, if it is seen so strictly and it is not considered to be regulated, then it turns out that representatives of the Croatian Parliament could not participate in the work of the board. It would be the only working body of the Croatian Parliament in which and in the work that is known, therefore, from the possibility of speaking, to be present, etc., without the possibility of voting could not be representatives of the Croatian Parliament. It's a huge thing. I absolutely disagree with that on my own behalf and on behalf of the club, and I think that that reason is enough in itself to make that decision if we can't agree on the way I think we should, or I suppose most MPs think it'll actually be delayed by tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30879	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic, the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30880	On behalf of the club. Thank you very much for this opportunity to address me. I'd like to suggest that Mr. President we finish our work today. Of course it belongs to your authority, and I ask you to listen to what I say. We made a lot of efforts, as far as I know at least three meetings of party presidents on December 28th, January 5th and yesterday. Then, at the working group meetings that we needed from these six documents or from these proposed resolutions and declarations, propose one possible joint document. Obviously, there was inconsistency between one conclusion and other conclusions, etc. I have also suggested on behalf of the Club some conclusions that should be, which we propose to bring about this debate of six points and a declaration. Any haste or any exclusion, I'm afraid it will lead to a violation of what we've achieved. However, for the time being, we have achieved a fine consensus on which we can build further work and work on the National Committee and draw up the necessary documents and look for all the solutions that are ahead of this Parliament and the Government to join the European Union. I don't see any serious reason for now in this atmosphere when we see that there are some doubts and twins to disrupt what we've created to potentially compromise this way of further work. I was present on the task force just before, where some of my amendments and suggestions were held, from which it is quite visible that we are in an unnecessary hurry and are not ready to use what we agreed on. So I suggest that we do not make a wrong move, that we do not cause any revolt to anyone, that we preserve that possibility in full consensus that we continue to do this, that we simply did a big deal today, a big debate, tomorrow, or Friday, if tomorrow for famous sports reasons it makes it impossible for us to do this seriously, continue this serious work on Friday, and until then we leave the parties to agree on all these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30881	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the debate and the proposal for a statement by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the joint action of the EU membership negotiation process, there was no objection to the text of the proposal for a statement drawn up by the six-member group of representatives. As regards this proposal for a declaration of the Croatian Parliament on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, there is an amendment to the Club of Representatives of the HSS, and there is also a comprehensive proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. With regard to the Decision establishing the National Committee, there are several three amendments and there are proposals to postpone the vote and in general on all these proposals for decisions or on the proposal for a decision on the establishment of the National Committee of Four Clubs. I will determine one break of 15 minutes and ask that the presidents of the parties, members of the six-member group of MPs, the Prime Minister who is also the President of the Party, the Minister of European Integration, the chief negotiator on behalf of the motions of this decision, Mr Mato Arlovic, and that we assess in this short stop whether we can continue tonight or continue, in accordance with these proposals of the clubs, tomorrow or Friday. Here's a break for 15 minutes. Please, room 149. And finally a proposal for a decision to set up a national committee. On behalf of the promoter, Vice-President Honored Representative Mato Arlović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30883	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues after we had the debate and after that, we withdrew an inter-party agreement between the representatives of clubs and the president of parliamentary parties in such a way that individual issues and individual amendments have actually been incorporated into this proposal for a decision. How should this be read and look now allow me to expose myself and put it in a phonogram so that we can adopt the whole decision as we wish. In point 3, paragraph 1, the last sentence reads, "All parliamentary parties are normally represented in the National Committee," the sentence would be crossed. In point 5, paragraph 2 would be amended and read: "At the meeting of the National Committee, the presidents of other working bodies, the presidents of the clubs in the Croatian Parliament, representatives of professional associations, scientists and experts from certain areas of importance for the negotiation process may be invited." And point 8. would have been amended and it would have been said: "Detailed questions about the work of the National Committee will be regulated by its rules of procedure." This is what has been achieved, and in this way we have practically reached an agreement to reach a decision on the National Committee in this amended and updated section, which practically incorporated the amendments of fellow IDS colleagues and reached an agreement with colleagues from the HNS on their position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-19-0.u30884	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Representative, Agent Cain withdrew his amendment on behalf of the IDS Club. ... Well, he was withdrawn on that deal and consummated in this proposal. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I formally have to find out that this amammandman has been withdrawn. And we also had the amendment of a respected representative, Zeljko Pecek, who was also consummated in this reformed amendment and was therefore formally and withdrawn. We also had two amendments, or amendments, to the HNS, PGS Club, which were also withdrawn. I am now voting on the Proposal for a Decision establishing the National Committee together with these adopted amendments which become an integral part of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the National Committee. Please engage. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that, with 103, 103 votes for and 3 abstentions, a decision on the establishment of the National Committee in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the session On the agenda - The proposal for a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2005 - an add-on to the national programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union – in 2005 the material was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and European Integration. You received the reports at the session. I ask the Minister of European Integration, Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarevic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
