ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38939	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament, I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, the Vice President and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda. With a call for the session, you also received a proposal for the agenda. At the session, you have both been divided and the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda I included one new point and this Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission for understandable reasons. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. In the final draft agenda under points 2. — 4, paragraphs 11 to 13 and 17 of the laws proposed for the adoption of an emergency procedure are set out. These are Bill No 307 of the Law on the Confirmation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia on the one hand and the European Communities and their Member States on the other. It's a short name of the law. Second, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Protocols with a harmonised international Convention on Cooperation on Air Navigation Safety, P.Z. No. 308. Third, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank, the Framework Multi-Sectoral Loan for Community Infrastructure for the Project "Integral Development of the Local Community", with the Final Proposal for a Law. Fourthly, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on secondary education, with the Final Proposal for a Law. Fifth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act. Sixth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the patent law, and the Seventh, Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Coffee. Do any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? There isn't. Let's take it in a row. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Protocol Confirmation Act with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States on the other hand? Mr. Baby, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38940	The keys were not taken unfortunately, so we will have to apply that handlifting article on our part.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38941	Okay, at the confirmation of the agenda. Then please, who's in charge of an emergency procedure for the adoption of this Act? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 114 votes to be included in the emergency procedure. Who is in favour of the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of the Protocol with the International Convention on Co-operation for the Safety of Air Navigation? Thank you. Against? With 115 votes, the adopted application of the emergency procedure is unanimously accepted. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 116 votes included in the agenda. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on secondary education? Thank you. Against? 86 for, 32 against. With that majority, it is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act? Thank you. Against? 85 for, 33 against, listed by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the patent law? Thank you. Against? 101 for, 18 against, listed by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the special tax on coffee? Thank you. Against? With 91 for, 28 against included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Under point 1, reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission have been included. Any of the MPs object to including this point in the agenda? There isn't. A mandate-immunity commission? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38942	Your Honor, Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I'm looking for an explanation for the 14th point. This is the final proposal of the Civil Service Act. That's what we're looking for for, in Article 151. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which says if the final draft law is to be submitted by the Proposer within 6 months of the date of adoption of the bill. And we ourselves know that the first reading of this Law was done in July of last year. So we're interested in whether this was a violation of Article 151. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, and how did this final proposal happen now after a year on the agenda? Have we broken Article 151? Rules of Procedure. It was probably missed by your services that they didn't notice. So in July 4th, the debate was held in 2004 so not even a full year went by.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38943	In accordance with Article 151 of the The final draft law shall be submitted by the applicant within 6 months of the date of adoption of the proposal for a law, if the legislator does not submit the final draft law within the prescribed time limit, it will be considered that the law-making procedure has been suspended. I don't know if that bill, which is the time limit when the conclusion on the adoption of the bill is in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38944	In July of last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38945	We'll see about that. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Honored Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38946	Mr President, on behalf of the representatives of HSLS and LS, I have submitted a proposal requesting a report on the talks of the Government of Croatia with the International Monetary Fund, given that the session will last for 15 days and I think there are conditions for the Rules of Procedure, however, we are here and when it was not fully in line with the Rules of Procedure when it comes to deadlines we have the right to such information. Namely, talks have been conducted that can very much refer to the standard of citizens, reforms in the field of health, pension reform, encouraging housing, these are information to which the public should know, not only the representatives, so I ask you nicely to accept the answer you wrote me as adequate, because you say that you are asking that we deliver the relevant material, namely, the relevant material can only be delivered by the minister or prime minister and not by us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38947	Thank you very much. On 27 June of this year, so the day before yesterday you submitted a proposal to include the report on the negotiations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the International Monetary Fund. The next day, I sent a letter to the Prime Minister stating that you proposed and asked the Government to conduct a discussion on the proposal of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and LS to deliver the relevant material, so not from the Clubs, but from the Government, when we get it from the Government, then I will put it on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're crossing, and please. Here's Agent Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38948	Thank you very much, Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club I will ask you, the HSP Club is located, has come into possession of documents showing that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has embarked on an adventure to change the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, without debate and without the approval of the Parliament, it is about introducing export quotas for sugar. So the HSP Club is asking the Prime Minister to explain what it is before the current clock begins because it is actually a violation of the international agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38949	Col. Rožic is not in line with the Rules of Procedure that following a set agenda, before the current morning that the Prime Minister answers certain questions. I can't make that precedent, you'll get that information during today but according to the Rules of Procedure, I can't do otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38950	Mr. President, I'm asking you on behalf of the HSP Club for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38951	You can't get a break because the Rules of Procedure don't allow before crossing to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38952	Then I'm going to look for her behind the first question, and that really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38953	All right, all right. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. First, I would like to propose Article 204(2) in the follow-up to the session. Rules of Procedure supplementing the agenda of this session with the following points: Report Mandating the Immunity Commission, Proposal for a Trust to Ivica Kirin to perform the duties of Minister of the Interior. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profit. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on areas of special state concern. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the laws on mountainous mountain areas. Proposal for a law amending the law on free zones. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax avoidance. Proposal for a law confirming a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for a project to build the Dubrovnik port coastal infrastructure. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing health insurance laws. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail. Proposal for a law on humanitarian demining. Proposal for a law on special rights in the pension insurance of employees in demining operations. Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on local and regional (regional) self-government. Proposal for a law on the election of mayors, mayors of Zagreb, mayors and municipal mayors. Proposal for a law on the State Election Commission. Proposal for the Srebrenica Declaration. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? I note that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act with the Final Proposal for the Law bears the P.Z.E. mark, and in the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161(1). We don't vote on the rules of procedure. Who, please, has a representative of the objection to the application of an emergency procedure for adoption? In a row. Take it easy, give me the paper and the pen. First, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38955	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Prime Minister. The HSS Club is this way of proposing emergency laws against all laws proposed under the emergency procedure. I would especially like to highlight Bill 321. Amendment to the tax legislation on additional value, i.e. abolishing the zero VAT rate on those tourist services that have been registered and done abroad for organised tourism traffic. We believe that the time in which it is brought, the way it is brought will do relatively great damage to tourism and is neither in line with our business practices. That's why I suggest that in every way, this gets taken down. And also, given this enormous dynamic of the bill you made to take a break on behalf of the HSS Club for 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38956	Thank you very much. So it's an objection to the point, especially the 3rd point and all the suggestions. Okay. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38957	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am for that parole that, while there is no rest, but now the question is whether we are entering an extraordinary session of the Parliament, and absolutely on the basis of this discussion by Mr. Markov, the club IDS opposes the urgent procedure in the parliamentary procedure going to propose a law on amendments and additions to the law on value added tax. I mean, we're just here now with this agenda, I don't know, loaded, and there's a real question, when MPs can prepare themselves during these day-to-day sessions at all, so important agenda topics in the days ahead without a single consultation and preparation can be thoroughly prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38958	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38959	Thank you, Mr. President. Also on behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, please pause for 10 minutes so that the club can be manifested, we are now on the agenda of more structural laws than we seem to have had this whole semester, therefore, half a year. From value added tax to choice for local authorities, local self-government authorities. So, we have such a, such a line of laws that practically changes the profile of the legal structure of the state at all to do it in the next three days, I don't think it's realistic and in some way, or if you think it's necessary we have to talk about extending the session, or about reducing the number of laws because we're going to do everything that didn't happen in the first half of the year, it seems like we're planning to do it in the next two, three days, so please take a break so that the club can be obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38960	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38961	Mr President, here on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to share my predecessors' dissatisfaction with the fact that in the last three working days of this House we have placed 16 points of the agenda, of which almost all points other than the two laws go according to the emergency procedure, it is very important and important laws and we believe that because of this Parliament's responsibility it cannot be decided by an urgent procedure. We equally believe that in this House we had enough time, we had a session where we had 80% of the points given by opposition deputies and we had almost no law that the government would give except for international contracts that we should only ratify. Therefore, what has not been done in the first half of the year, but for the last year and a half, cannot and must not be compensated so quickly in the last three days of Parliament's work. And just like the rest of the clubs, I'm looking for a 10-minute break for the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38962	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38963	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club, we're also looking for a 10-minute break. Unfortunately, this has already become a practice for all sessions, meaning when it comes to the constitutional deadline for Parliament's break, the last days include points, and very large and important points. We, in fact, have at this session, now the sequel, so the state budget, it's the only one that can be discussed for three days. So it's already become a practice and we need to break it up. We don't have any material that matters all the time, and eventually all the important proposals come along, including public gatherings, all the other stuff. That doesn't make any sense anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38964	Thank you very much. Agent Cain, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38965	Yeah, well, also in front of the IDS Club, we're looking for a 10-minute break. I agree that some points must be discussed, this is the law on avoiding double taxation. Then I'll say it later. [[All right, all right, look for a break, all right. All right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38966	Yeah. This way, I'm setting a 10 minute break at the request of HSS, HNS, SDP, HSP, IDS. Ten minutes. Continuing right after 10 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, after the break, we will proceed, and we will proceed with the session. On behalf of the HSS Club, a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38968	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the HSS Club is in principle dissatisfied that in this way this session is taking place with many new points especially of those points that are being adopted by an emergency procedure, and that we are being seen as very strong instruments of legislative policy that will act on the overall processes in this country. It is also not appropriate and business order that certain points of the agenda could not be obtained at least in addition or in materials such as the Public Procurement Act. I'm going to be very specific about two points of the agenda. The first is of course: Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Act on additional value because we believe it is a very important point and that it is very reckless. The introduction of a zero rate introduced by the coalition government showed responsibility for tourism as the most significant Croatian branch for the fact that there were certain structures of this tourism and certain areas in Croatia that were not touristically active. The introduction of a zero rate is recognised by the so-called export component. The introduction of a zero rate has created all the preconditions that we have today and which we are using today, which is fully active tourism and in those areas that it has not been active in. Since the introduction of the zero rate, the efficiency of budget filling has increased, as well as in the framework of the VAT. Investment cycles have also occurred in tourism, and Croatia's regions have experienced almost all the openings in the world's broadcasting markets. The issue of introducing a zero rate is not the issue of introducing a differentiated VAT rate. That's completely different. It is a strategic definition of opening the door of tourism and that it can stand on its feet and run the rest into, the rest of the economy. The introduction of differentiated rates as proposed in this Bill proposal is a serious business and requires a total reform of the tax system, and not this kind of VAT scratching for reasons I don't know what. It is completely unclear, the bill itself says that damage to the state budget will occur from about 100 million kuna. In the reasons we had heard publicly, it was said that certain budget gaps amounted to a billion kuna. We therefore hold that there is no reason for this bill, not particularly for economic, especially for fiscal, but for business reasons. Also, as far as the proposal for a law on public gathering is concerned, we were hoping that he had moved away from us, but it is evident that he has gone too few hundred feet away and we believe that this bill is not in line with what the Croatian public requires of this House, which is the seriousness and assurance of the democratic conditions of life, work and those who want to protest their democratic right to do so. For all these reasons, the HSS Club will not vote in favour of any draft law by emergency procedure, and in particular we warn the Government of the harmfulness of the adoption of the Bill on Value Added Taxation because this will lead tourism to the position that it will not represent the commitment that we all hold in Croatia, and that there will be relevant damages, because it is inappropriate in the seventh month to modify the conditions of application for a branch that is up to 1.6. finished negotiating, for it is operating, because that Mr. President is operating on the world market and must be measured according to the standards and criteria that exist on that market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38969	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected deputy vice president Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38970	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the government! With a rough and fast, quick analysis of the type of law that is proposed to further fit the agenda, the following structure can be detected. One part of this legislation concerns centralised, decentralisation. So, first of all, financial centralization, decentralisation. One of the key issues for Croatia's development. Others refer to the electoral system, so the other type of legislation refers to an electoral system that largely defines or otherwise defines the country's political profile. So it is known that HNS has already been in favour of the direct election of the mayors and mayors for years and it has never been able to pass in this House and legislation is now proposed which, precisely because we think it should be done as a new profile of political responsibility in Croatia, is now proposed two, three days before the end of the session without being able to be thoroughly analysed. The tax system is also one of the key issues for Croatia the issue of ownership and the question of the exploitation of agricultural land, so it is also one of the key issues that define the profile of legal, institutional and political if you want Croatia. This type of legislation is wanted, so we don't see it as the HNS Club PGS any of what's not as important. Of course, we see a lot of things that we think should be arranged differently. None of this as a topic is irrelevant, but that is why we think that putting it on the agenda three days before the session ends simply means trying to push through some solutions that will neither be able to be thoroughly and qualitatively considered, and will have long-term consequences most of it by emergency procedure. Of all the proposed agenda points, only two have particular legitimate reasons. These are the two relating to international agreements and international agreements, so the first two have particular reasons to be included in the agenda. We can't see for others that they have these particular reasons. We believe as a club that it is unsystematicly included in the agenda, that it would be the smartest to return or to the Presidency of the Parliament, extended to club presidents to analyse what of these points is really necessary to go to the agenda? Whether the session is extended for a week and then systematically accessing this legislation, and not that this kind of structural legislation that has not been considered in the first six months is being considered in the last two, three days, especially since it came to the benches mostly yesterday evening. We therefore ask you to consider this possibility to analyse these points at the presidency extended to club presidents and find some solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38971	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38972	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, we condemn this way of working in Parliament in which we have spent the first semester, but also the last year here, days, weeks and months working on laws that were of little importance for the citizens of this country, which did not have a single reform move that, even moreover, did not have the character of harmonising the law with the European Union, so in the past year and in that part, we are quite lagging behind on what we planned and what we should have done. So we condemn the practice that now for the last five minutes four days until the official by the Constitution, a certain deadline for the end of Parliament's work is included on the agenda such a large number of points, so for now 16 points of the agenda that are very important for the citizens of this country. We've calculated at the SDP club to make an example. Now to start working and discussing all these points that we have on the agenda, without which, most likely, still coming tomorrow, because that way we can see from media announcements, so we're working 24 hours without a minute's sleep, we'd have five hours to discuss for each of these laws. It should be said that today we are starting to discuss the Rebalance of the State Budget, a document that defines how to live in this country, how much and how to go in the development of the country. It should also be said that it is unacceptable for us to talk in such a quick way about amending the Law on Value Added Tax, because for the first time in Croatia, the introduction of an interrelationship. We also believe that the scandalous bad law that has now become part of the agenda, which is the Law on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, we believe that someone by bad law wanted to ruin a good idea of direct elections and we do not think there is a need to discuss it now, since the law stipulates that the elections will only be carried out in 2009. So we don't see any reason why he's in such a hurry right now. We have also heard the announcement that by 15.7. this House will be visited by the Reimbursement Act, which means that tomorrow or perhaps even during today’s day, we can expect this law to be on the bench. There is also the Health Reform Act, which, according to what we read in the paper, is everything but health reform, is not even the beginning of health reform. Therefore, it is about large-scale laws that define the standard of citizens of this country and cannot be accepted to be discussed for the last five minutes. It seems to us that this term is now chosen with intent, because it is about annual holidays and such important topics as concern the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and which will be important to determine the way, conditions and quality of their lives, will remain conscious therefore, without the full attention of the Croatian public, and it seems to us that this was the intention of the Croatian Government. However, we from the SDP Club are protesting this kind of work and will not support the inclusion of these 16 points in the Croatian Assembly agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38973	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP club, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic. Tonchi Tadic. You've changed? All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38974	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the distinguished gentlemen of the Croatian government. One bad practice in this House of Commons has already been slowly addressed, that every time before the constitutional break we get on benches at the last minute of about 15 points of the agenda, at least 10 of which is an emergency procedure. This is where we went one more step further. Representatives have neither a shared text on the bench to supplement the agenda. If it were one or two points, one would have managed, but it is about some 10 points that are according to an emergency procedure, which we have to hear and assess whether they are for an emergency procedure or not. So we ask that MPs be given the text to supplement the agenda. Secondly, we're asking for this to be seen as an extended Bureau of Parliament. During the debate on the Republic of the State Budget, the extended Presidency of the Parliament, Mr President, may discuss this amendment to the agenda and to set priorities. Some of these dots are really priority, something isn't and can be left for autumn. Something may have to go now, but not as an emergency procedure, but in the first reading. Let the Bureau of Parliament be shown about it in its extended composition. But speaking of additions to the agenda, I must mention here that the club of HSP representatives has asked to extend the agenda of this session with our proposal for a conclusion on sugar trade with the European Union. It is inadmissible for the Government to enter into negotiations with the European Union on the sugar trade regime without having been implemented through the Stabilisation and Association Council and that the Croatian Parliament, which should adopt its views on this matter, had not previously been manifested in accordance with Articles 3 and 4. Law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. That material of ours is being sent to the procedure. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr President, I ask that this should be the most urgent part of the agenda, that we do not leave the Assembly before the constitutional break without any indication of how and how to conduct negotiations with the European Union on the sugar trade regime, but the most urgent issue is the session of the extended Presidency of the Croatian Parliament which will decide which of these points are really important that they deserve an emergency procedure and that are so important among them that they are at the top of the list of priorities that they must be discussed in these few days other than the rebalancing of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38975	Thank you very much. And club IDS, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38976	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and the esteemed gentlemen of the council. Indeed, it is not possible to seriously discuss such a serious agenda within three days, which may be consistent with all the points discussed from 2004 to today. I.D.S. I said before, it's okay with the extraordinary session. The IDS is to continue this session. If the government can work until the 1.8th or continuity, then the Parliament can do the same. I said before that this country needs rebuilding, and I'll do it again. Indeed, there should be no rest during the restoration period, and this country's gentlemen really need to be restored because the wages in it are rising at 1.6% for the first five months, the gross state product is growing at 1.8%. Peace rates of only 1.6% and it is clear that one serious parliament in the country would expect a serious crisis and recession to work without a break. What needs to be discussed is this Law on the avoidance of double taxation concluded in Brijuni by Prime Minister Sanader with Mr. Jansa because he is tanging 14,000 people who are receiving pensions from the Slovenian state to express themselves and it is understandable that they need to be met. These laws kind of change the concept of state leadership. So we have the VAT Act here, we have the Tax on profit, we have the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on Areas of Special State Care, the city of Vukovar, the mountainous and mountainous area. They change the relationship means state - central government. None of us had a chance to get acquainted with these legal decisions. These steps of ours are kind of extorted. We're talking to each other, ad hoc. In a way, we're plimising with the media that gets ahead of us or, as Mr. Tadic said, we're arguing by ear. Indeed, we dispute by ear. On the one hand, for example. The famous law on 0.0 has changed acidification for one year, and now the emergency procedure needs to be discussed, for example, the Law on Local Districtal, Regional Self-Government, the choice of mayors, then I don't know what else, the law on Special Rights from Pension Insurance, and we've also introduced the Srebrenica Declaration here, which may be a little tendencies of this Parliament, although it doesn't mean it's unnecessary. I would like to say once again that these substances and these legal proposals are too serious to rush us, so let's call an extraordinary session for next week and work nicely until 1. 8. if you need all summer. We need to discuss the double taxation treaty as soon as possible. These laws, in a way, entangle the entire Croatian tourism, through income tax and profits of all the employees in this country, millions and 400 thousand people, tang the economy, health care, 4.3 million residents as many as there are, the mountain-mounted area, which will say local self-government, the double taxation of 14 thousand citizens, the proposal I don't know, we do in this week the existing agenda plus this law on avoiding double taxation, and the other points up to 1. 8. We now have electoral legislation on the agenda, regarding local elections, it can certainly wait for a while but it cannot wait for the Law on the return of debt to pensioners, and it is to be assumed that this legal text will also arrive at this session and therefore Mr. President in front of the IDS Club I am indeed asking you a higher seriousness and moment in which the country is located but also the dignity of this Parliament, let us not rape the agenda to go to the extraordinary session of this House, we are working until 1. 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38977	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of including a proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the draft law under emergency procedure has been resolved by Articles 159 and 160. The Rules of Procedure, and the President of the Parliament, have only the duty and obligation to propose to the Croatian Assembly, adoption, whether or not they accept or do not enter into the agenda of the law according to an urgent procedure. I cannot convene the particularly extended Bureau of Parliament because the extended Bureau of Parliament under Article 37 discussed the agenda of the upcoming session of the Parliament, there was a proposal here during the session of the Assembly to include certain items 12 in the agenda by emergency procedure. Whether these items will be included in the emergency procedure or not in the agenda will be decided later by the Croatian Parliament. I'll put later this proposal by the HSP MPs' club on a vote that came in writing a little while ago, which was proposed today about an hour or so ago. Proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the positions of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the decision-making process of the Stabilisation and Association Council and the proposal for this conclusion on the agenda. We now have to go to the vote, to show our Parliament's views on the implementation of the emergency procedure. Dear Representative, president of the HDZ Club Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38978	I've been briefed by several MPs that they've forgotten the keys again, so please vote by raising your hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38979	... The Rules of Procedure when someone proposes anyone to vote by raising their hands we exchanged the Rules of Procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I find that, with 62 votes in favour and 46 votes against this bill, it is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax? Thank you. Against? 63 for and 47 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act supplementing the Law on areas of special state care? Thank you. Against? Peace. We don't have a quorum, there are 72 MPs. We'll wait a little while to see if we have a quorum. Thank you very much. We have a voting quorum. Who is involved in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax or the amendment of the Tax Act in the areas of special state care? Thank you. Against? 74 for, 3 against. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar? Thank you. Against? 78 for and 1 against. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on mountain-mounted areas? Against? So concentrate. 75 for, 4 against. Who is to apply the emergency procedure the adoption of the Act amending the Free Zones Act. [[I'd like to ask you to give me your word.]] I saw your hand, when we're done voting, you'll get your word. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Free Zones Act? [[Mr. President.]] Thank you. Against?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38980	By the authority of the President...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38981	There's no word under any authority, they have clubs and not by authority. 76 for, 3 against Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on Agricultural Land? [[I'm on behalf, I'm on behalf.]] Thank you. Against? Seventy-six for two against. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure under the Final Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Public Assembly Act? Thank you. Against? 74 for, 4 against. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act? Thank you. Against? 75 for, 3 against. Order! Who is the emergency procedure, the Law on Confirmation between Croatia and Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation and preventing the avoidance of income tax and property? Thank you. Against? Unanimity 78 for. The contract between Croatia and Slovenia, o, not confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project and construction of the Dubrovnik port coastal infrastructure? Thank you. Against? I find that with 78 votes in favour and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. And I would also like to suggest that we include the agenda of the Croatian Parliament's proposal for a conclusion on the positions of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the decision-making process in the Stabilisation and Association Council. And a proposal to conclude the report on the implementation of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 31 January to 31 December 2004. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council pursuant to Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 15th session: Proposal for a candidate to elect members of the State Judicial Council to which the term of office has expired. Any of the MPs object to including this point in the agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the agenda are finished. I'm interrupting the session. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Agricultural Land Act Well, let's take it in a row. [[Tell us, Mr. President, which points will we have tomorrow?]] In a row. [[/Invasion: Except for this?]] Agricultural land, ratification of these two contracts, the Public Procurement Act, the Postal Act and humanitarian demining. That's for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38984	Mr President, I object on behalf of the SDP Club to an urgent procedure in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings. The very explanation of the proposal shows that there is no respect for what is prescribed and no respect for the criteria for which it is possible to carry out an emergency procedure. It clearly states that this is about saving budgets, budget savings. We know that you've also been budgeting by cutting a whole series of rights and imposing new commitments precisely to address the major problems that are being suffered by the government, one of them is certainly indivisible and since you don't use and don't propose any measures here by denying the existing rights in such an extremely inappropriate way, changing the important and drastic conditions of the citizens or the rights achieved even some kind of business relationship in this one seems to me rather boasting that we now have to vote tomorrow and not yet in the ordinary procedure, but in an urgent procedure, I think it would be really appropriate that at least this Law, since if you didn't or the Government didn't seek consensus or association... saves neither savings nor many citizens who may have been seduced or whose significant changes are made to the conditions under which they have become savings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38985	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38986	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Retirement Party Club opposes the urgent procedure proposed by Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act with Law No 338 with the following reasons. There is no business reason to rush with this matter since the eventual adoption of this Law would mean its application only in March 2006, so we have plenty of time to discuss this bill in two readings. Furthermore, the process has been opened, the process of agreeing or analysing the entire pension system with the Croatian Party of Retired and Retired Associations, from which it was intended to produce a new formula for harmonising pensions, however, in this process has stalled and is now, in some way, past the will and retirement associations and the Croatian Party of pensioners, this Act in some way, proposes an emergency procedure for this Act. So let's object to an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38987	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38988	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HSS Club, we oppose the urgent procedure of adopting the House Savings Act, the State, and the state incentive of housing savings with the final draft law. I think there's a lot of reason and it's the most elementary right to know how to plan well and to use your rights on the basis of the benefits obtained. I have to say that now that we've got him we see that he'd been applying himself this year and I think it's irresponsible from the government that we're bringing back such a bill now for seven months, and it's an emergency procedure. If there has to be a procedure, then it should remain in the regular procedure and not be applied but rather projected for a second year means fiscally third year, 2006. Thank you very much. And our proposal is to go into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38989	Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38990	Dear Mr. President, clearly whoever offers the Parliament, let's say a two-year debt return, even with this huge discount, the MPs will certainly vote for it no matter what the IDS thinks there are other ways of repaying the debt. However, I agree with Mr. Hrelja that it would be opportunised that this legislative proposal on pension insurance goes to another reading. Even this formula that is now in effect is something more unfavourable for the pensioners, something more unfavourable. In the long run, however, it certainly carries savings to the State budget if it is accepted and so much Mr. President really doesn't need to be rushed. There's time at 9 a.m. to discuss pension insurance. Let's make a deal with the proposal... I can't talk about another one because I didn't get the agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the bell.]] What am I gonna do?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38991	Thank you very much, therefore, for the objections of the Retirementary Club and the IDS Representatives Club to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act and the SDP Club of Representatives and the HSS Club for the application of the emergency procedure in the context of amendments and addition of the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings with the final proposal of the law. We'll vote on that now. I'm asking for MPs and counsel to be involved. My colleague Markov, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38992	Some keys are missing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u38993	You vote with your hand. Please quorum, how much do we have? 87. Including you, 88. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Retirement Fund Act? There was no objection to that. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 79 votes for, 4 abstentions and 2 against the inclusion of this bill in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act? Please, let's get on with it. Can we vote? The result? With 68 votes for, 4 abstentions and 11 against this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 77 votes for and 5 against this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings? Please engage. We can vote. The result? 70 votes for, 4 abstentions and 5 against this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the Mandate-Immunity Commission reports? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. Let's ask a question, first question, the respected representative Shemso Tankovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39009	Ladies and gentlemen, before I address the question to Prime Minister Sanader, allow me to express my gratitude to Prime Minister Sanader and his associates in this House because we solved a difficult issue about a month ago in a satisfactory manner. It is a group of 200, 300 people, Bosniaks above all who have been in one very difficult state without their guilt for 10 years, because simply the administration did not treat them in a satisfactory way. This government, this prime minister and his associates have managed to address this issue in a satisfactory way both in the name of these people and in my personal name I thank you. And now to start with just a parliamentary question, the direct cause of this question is, the local elections and the results of these elections that relate to members of the national minorities. I noticed that a very numerous Slovenian minority, unfortunately due to great dispersion, but also the fact that around 40% of the members of the minority and the practicality of statistics were not adequately achieved in the local elections. The same situation is with members of one of the oldest ethnic minorities to the Albanian minority. NO, I am particularly interested in Bosniaks here, because the statistical game with Bosniaks says the following. ...is 20 grand 755, and...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39010	Comrade Tankovic, please ask a question, time is running out.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39011	An old definition of Muslims 19 thousand 677, this playing with Bosniaks produces that in many towns, in many municipalities Bosniaks cannot achieve their legal right, what can we do to make it right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39012	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister Dr. Here you go, Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39013	First of all, Mr. Representative, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you for this recognition when it comes to resolving this issue for people who were, by their own free will, victims of political opportunities at the beginning of the '90s, then this status has lasted until now. Secondly, when it comes to Bosniaks and Muslims, the Republic of Croatia accepted the decision made by the Bosniak people 12 years ago to rename the name Muslim who was written with a capital letter to Bosniak and we accepted it. What the question is, is the constant question of principle, and we've talked a lot about it, and I want to share it with everyone else, whether it can be one act, or whether it should be allowed to let people decide for themselves from that in Croatia from that former name Muslim to move as it is now called the Bosniak nation to Bosniak, that's a question that goes into some other segments of even constitutional law, we've consulted constitutional experts, and I think we still have to talk about it in any case, but what the state has to do is to allow it when it decides a very fast effective effective approach so that there are no bureaucratic obstacles. Here I think you've succeeded in your question, and in that sense we'll do everything we can to make this copying happen without any problems. But I repeat, there are some constitutional legal implications so we still have to wait for the opinion of the constitutional experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39014	Dear Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39015	So I thank you for this answer and I believe that together we will settle this issue in a satisfactory way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39016	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39017	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In connection with what I've already explained, the HSP Club is looking for a break of 10 minutes so that we can see how to set ourselves up as a club to this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39018	It's not possible yet because we haven't moved on to the agenda yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39019	Mr. President of the Parliament, I appeal to the Rules of Procedure, to Rule 111 and 112 to do this without raising tension. But if we move to the agenda, we'll talk differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39020	Col. Rožić, Article 223b. The Rules of Procedure say as follows, I quote: "The Chair of the Assembly will not approve a recess for the meeting of the Representatives' Clubs if the request for a recess is submitted: a) prior to the established agenda and the transition to the agenda for reasons related to the work of the Assembly's working bodies in connection with the resignation or statement of representatives outside the Parliament." So point a) here we haven't moved on to a fixed agenda. It's the current morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39021	Current morning is not the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39022	When we cross over, when we're done, I'll grant you that break in accordance with your rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39023	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39024	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39025	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Madam Vice President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I refer my question to the Minister of Health Mr. Neven Ljubic. It is known that the social care system is fully and particularly important for social care centres in the exercise and protection of numerous rights. With that in mind, they have great powers. I also pointed out that in a recent debate in the attorney general's report for the children. The problem of inertness, system slowness, lack of material resources, space of action, need of staff and too few experts is highlighted. My question is, is the health ministry preparing to reorganize social care?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39026	Thank you. Minister of Health Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39027	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Madam Representatives, for this matter. I will only actually remind myself that in November 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted a project of development, so a system of social care. The project was practically a prerequisite for what followed in June this year, which is the signing of a contract with the World Bank, something that was actually born, I can say so freely for the last two years. What does that basically mean? This all you've actually found is a whole series of things that we were practically faced with in 2004 exactly inert systems, a system that's sub-capacitated, that doesn't actually have enough educated people. And precisely in this context this project of development of the social care system has been made. The basics to say the thesis that is actually going through it are certainly quality people in quality space and, of course, with certain equipment. What is important is that the strategy itself supports the practical system and institutionalisation, so in some way an alternative to institutionalisation, something that we can actually describe very simple and it is to close the user in four walls and offer nothing. What's much, much more important are different programs, programs that unfortunately are not represented at this point in the extent that they should be. And just in that context is the largest part of this strategy is directed. The strategy usually has three different works. The first part is practically one segment based dominantly on centres of social care. Therefore, social care centres should behave or move into one reorganisation structure that would generally be all in one place. So that every user in that center can get instructions and exercise their right and do so very, very quickly. At the same time, it is necessary to informically connect the system not only of the centres but also of the homes, because what I really have to admit we are now faced with what we are doing to large registers and one part of it is already already, and at the end is actually a complete decoupling of the system. Not only does it say that two centres in two counties or 20 centres in 20 counties issue different practical forms. And we've now done this to be a common system, so we've issued common forms that will be on the Ministry's website next month. The third component of this is actually a project that is also very important and that is to improve living conditions in homes. It's something that's actually been warned more than once here, so in the Parliament itself, which we're aware of. These are primarily hygienic conditions, living conditions, so the user, and that is the third component, which does not mean that it is irrelevant, but is actually such a sequence of systems that is configured. In other words, such a strategy can, of course, not give solutions in a month, but it can certainly give them within a year and a half and three years, respectively, as much as the whole project is imagined.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39028	Thank you. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39029	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the answer, and I believe that by this effective system of yours, potential clients will receive adequate accommodation, that they will also receive adequate processing and that the Stancic case will never happen again and that thousands and 600 children living in 80 homes will really have better conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39030	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39031	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer the question to the President of the Croatian Government Mr. Ivo Sanader. Mr. President, Jakov Gelo is now the former director of the State Statistics Institute ten years ago, so in 1995 he was removed from his post because the state summit at the time did not like the statistics on price developments and the cost of living. Ten years later, i.e. Today, Mr. Gello is experiencing the same fate as statistics do not indicate the economic growth and progress of the Republic of Croatia as your government wishes to demonstrate. Mr. President, official statistics don't make sense unless it's independent of the government's desire to embellish statistics and the fact of the lack of development and stagnation of the citizens' standard of living. My question is why kill the messenger of bad news instead of you and the government taking responsibility for the bad news and changing economic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39032	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39033	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for this matter. This question shows all your hypocrisis. In fact, it's that you replaced Gel at the beginning of the third coalition in January and we returned him but since he didn't respond exactly to professional and not to political demands, we replaced him because he didn't do what he was set up for. But I'm curious to know why he was removed in 1995 and you didn't mention that he was removed at the beginning of the January 3rd coalition. So you know why it was changed in 1995 and why it was changed now, and you don't know why it was changed at the beginning of your coalition. It's a very strange question to ask. So my answer is: Mr. Gello was replaced because he didn't do professional work because we set him up, brought him back after you replaced him. We brought him back to that place, this government, not yours. Yours has changed it. We brought him back. But since he hasn't responded to his assigned tasks, he's been changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39034	Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39035	Of course, I'm not happy with the answer because it's not true. Secondly, I am interested, and also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are interested in getting growth data and, and the standard that the international monetary fund has, so I ask you to write these data so that you can tell the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39036	Thank you very much. And before the fourth question, colleagues, the esteemed Kovacevic. Now, we've checked out this Civil Service Act. It was in its first reading on 8.12.2004, and the Government submitted the final draft of the law on 2 June of this year in a second reading, in accordance with Article 151 within 6 months. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39037	Mr. President of the Parliament, my question has been addressed to the foreign minister. Dear Madam Minister, whether, as a credible, a credible fact should be taken by Prime Minister Sanader's statement of 18.5, which he gave in response to the possible introduction of sugar exports quotas which he unequivocally stated would not make it difficult to export sugar to the European Union. It's sugar, I remind you of a 100% Croatian product. The annual value of its exports is EUR 100 million only for significance. Or it is credible and more accurate that your interpretation is in a letter sent from 7 June by the European Union Commissioner in which the quota is unequivocally agreed to, and thus, the reduction of sugar exports. Brussels has made it clear that the export quota for the so-called so-called export. The Western Balkans are 300 thousand tonnes. We know Serbia already has 180 thousand tons. It's already signed. Macedonia 23, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has no sugarcane, has 10. It is logical if Croatia agrees and you have already agreed in advance to Croatia to remain 87,000 tonnes or exports 50% less than possible and feasible from now on. Madam Minister, this is a loss of EUR 50 million, which is a disaster for such a disproportionate amount of imports and exports of agricultural, food products. I ask you why you want to destroy 3,000 Croatian peasants and 1300 Croatian sugar workers on the road? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39038	Thank you. Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39039	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. It is true what Dr Ivo Sanader said would not make the position of Croatian sugar exporters difficult and it is not true that in my letter, Mrs Fischer-Bol apriori agreed to the introduction of sugar export quotas. Talks or consultations on any quotas do not mean that Croatia will eventually agree to those quotas. The fact is that consultations will begin and we asked the European Union to explain the reasons why they want to launch talks on these quotas. The initial explanations are the reform of the overall sugar market in the European Union, which will be reached as soon as possible because the European Union has lost its sugar dispute in the World Trade Organisation, thus imposing a restriction on subsidies and production quotas within the European Union itself. There will also be a drop in the price of sugar by 39% according to the latest proposal of 22 June this year, which means that in this case our sugar industry must think in this context about its future. The Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy will talk to sugar exporters these days and all arguments will be taken into account and I repeat in the letter does not say that we will accept but states that any, possibly possible quotas so at this point we are also looking for an explanation why this issue is being raised in relation to Croatia? The fact is that there are limited quotas for the Western Balkans, that they are unilaterally introduced to Serbia-Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania, and that Macedonia is subject to quotas under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but this will be subject to further consultations and talks and trust me that we will generally take the most possible account of the interests of our sugar and agriculture producers and that we will finally find a solution that is acceptable to each other as it stands and in that letter that you hold in hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39040	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39041	Well, I'd trust the minister, but this one, however, I'm reading the letter you wrote. Come on, I still trust the Prime Minister and I believe we'll fight it, but I'm warning you. It's a very difficult thing to do. Let's not get into things, let's not rush into it. We have few products that we have and we can offer the European Union and are worth EUR 100 million. I assure you, let's be firm on this, and let's insist at all costs. And let's not volunteer to agree to some things no matter how they print us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39042	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39043	Mr. President of the Parliament and Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I ask the question to the Ministry of Interior or State Secretary, Mr. Buconjic, and it refers to the events surrounding the explosions in municipal buildings in Trpinja and Borov and the killings in Karin. I'm just going to say that it's content and consequences of serious events and dangerous events. Furthermore, these are events that scare the citizens and turn the Croatian public on, and thirdly these are cases that seem to me to be resolved at all costs. I ask at what stage is the investigation and when will the cases be cleared?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39044	State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39045	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, there has been quite a lot of this in the media because of the sensitivity of events that occurred both in Karin and in Vukovar or in Trpina. Immediately after these events, the directorate or the ministry reacted by sending its top-ranking criminals on the ground to try to resolve cases in cooperation with the officials of the police administration and as soon as possible to find the perpetrators. As far as Karina is concerned, a number of operational procedures have been carried out to find the perpetrators or perpetrators. Talks have been made with over 379 people. Several dozen people were invited to a polygraph test. Except for traces found at the scene, at the scene of the crime, and DNA analysis was conducted at the Crimea Arts Center. Unfortunately, the traces found at the starting point were very scarce. They were almost unusable for skill and based them on it was very, very difficult to come up with some more concrete knowledge than we had at first. But here I now announce to you that these days final procedures will be taken which will practically be the finale of all that we have done so far. The processing was included and POA, so the police and all the security services of the security system have used all the legal methods to obtain information about the perpetrators and these days will be said to be defined by this procedure, and the results will be made public. As for the planting of explosive devices in the building of the municipality in Borovo and Trpinj and the installation of an explosive device in Vukovar in a private apartment, a number of very extensive operational measures were carried out there, so there was a criminal processing of over 25 people. More than 10 people were invited to a polygraph test, a search of space and persons in more than 10 apartments was carried out. The same applies all those legal measures, meaning the POA was involved and there were certain results and there was a problem that the clues found at the place of initiation were very scarce and there were no direct eyewitnesses. However, the investigation continues, the processing continues. It includes directorial criminals, the Vukovar-Srijem Police Administration and the neighbouring Police Administration of Osijek-Baranja and there are certain indications of possible perpetrators and also these days we expect to decide, in agreement with the State Attorney's Office, on the launch of the indictment against persons for whom at this time there is doubt on the basis of those measures that we have taken that they are potential perpetrators. So, I repeat. It's about three cases that were committed I'd say professionally, where there were very few material clues, where there were no eyewitnesses and which were very difficult to process. However, I think that the police have done a good job so far and that we have significantly narrowed down the possible circle of perpetrators and that, as I said these days, we will do those finals that will be notified today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39046	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39047	Mr. Secretary of State, I thank you, of course, for these explanations, but I'm afraid the matter will not be clarified, and if that doesn't clear up then we're losing credibility both as a government and as a third country, and I'm afraid that some people would then draw the conclusion that they can do serious things unpunished and as long as the man is afraid cannot be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39048	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39049	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm speaking to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr Calmeta. The coverage of TV signals as a signal of a mobile phone network in many places of the Dalmatian Fire is weak, and sometimes almost nothing. The most dramatic example took place by giving concessions to the third RTL TV programme, so that today the RTL programme cannot be seen in the settlements of Ruda, Dolac Donji, Dolac Gornji, Srijene, Trbusi, Mali Prolog, Hržano, Zakučac, part of Omis, etc. I believe that other TV houses should also fulfil their concession obligations to ensure that quality of life and villages in this segment are adequate. The question, Mr. Minister, is whether the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development has legal opportunities and what measures will be taken to ensure that the Dalmatinska Zagora settlements are properly covered by TV signals as well as by a mobile phone network signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39050	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39051	I thank Mr. Representative. Namely, the question of TV signals, but also the question of signals in this case of T-mobiles or otherwise mobile operators, is a question regulated by concessions, or concession contracts. The Ministry shall not directly, but the Telecommunications Agency shall exercise expert supervision and shall have the power to control special concession contracts in which the coverage of the area which must be or when it comes to the TV signal or when it comes to the signal in mobile telephony is defined and covered. When you mention RTL TV, she has a concession at national level. According to the Law on Electronic Media, it is obliged to cover 60% of the population of the Republic of Croatia and it is respected. So RTL TV respected it and that's fine. Now, if there's an interest primarily commercial, it's about commercial television to cover and some other areas clearly that they're going to do it. If not, he won't anyway. However, what should also be said is that there are about a hundred locations from which a third programme of Croatian television was once broadcast, which did not enter the concession contract when the concession contract was received and signed by RTL television. But that was the question of that concession contract back then. Also when it comes to radio spectrum and mobile telephony, then I must say that when it comes to these parts of Croatia that you are now talking about, the situation will be clearly improved because in this case T-mobile plans to build a whole series of repeaters in these areas that will lead to that area being better covered by a signal. However, and there was, there's a problem somewhere, somewhere the locals are rebelling, he doesn't want a repeater, somewhere it was planned to be done this year, so it's going to be done. I don't know, when it comes to me that it's not a problem, but here's a short time when it comes to cell phone signals, then this area of the Dalmatian Burning Area where you're now saying, surely within a very short time, will be a much better coverage.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39052	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39053	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with the answer. However, we would certainly point out that the region of Dalmatia is no longer economical or informational, and I believe that TV houses that are national such as RTL, TV Nova must carry out obligations for these areas as well, and not just from the urban environment. It is precisely on the trail of the government's policy, which is a balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39054	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39055	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government, Madam Minister and Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Mr. Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Branko Vukelic. We all know that the cancer of every economy is a gray zone, so working on black, traffic outside the VAT system, not reporting crafts and all activities, and that's not only the state treasury, the system, but also the unfair competition for all those entrepreneurs who work and pay all the contributions to our country. Therefore, Mr. Minister, please tell me what your ministry and Croatian Government is doing and is planning to do to curb the grey economy in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39056	Minister Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39057	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A brief question you asked, but I think this question is very important and that in fact the answer can hardly be short in this time that I have available today. But I must say, first of all, that the Croatian government has clearly put in its programme a focus on curbing all forms of grey economy and is determined to curb as much grey economy as possible, because we well know that there is essentially no country where there is no grey economy. But unfortunately, in Croatia there is a percentage, the participation of the grey economy above the average of developed countries. Once again, I want to say that it is clear to all citizens what a grey economy is. Often, it is identified only by working on black or selling goods on black. However, there is also fictitious import, export or export of goods, there is smuggling, illegal activity without enrolment in the Trade Register, avoiding all taxes, customs, contributions, etc. At the end of last year, all resolution ministries and competent authorities prepared a proposal for short-term and long-term measures to curb the grey economy and finally last year, the Croatian Government adopted and, I would say, a review of the measures, i.e. measures to curb the grey economy that are being implemented, so, with this year and for the first 6 months, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship has prepared and will soon be at the government's meeting of the report on the activities carried out and measures to combat the grey economy. It should be said, therefore, that two different types of measures are involved. One is the measures that are continuously implemented in all relevant inspections, therefore, to institutions that are important for the control of the grey economy. Other measures are actually changes to regulations and laws that are necessary and important to make our system effective and effective. First of all, the State Inspectorate Act, so that inspectors have greater powers, so that they can be more efficient and efficient on the ground. Also, the Law of Infractions, since it is present today that in fact many such procedures end in old age, actually does not have any effect. I could read for a long time, therefore, and all the measures taken by the other ministries and related to the surveillance of our border. We know a large number of border crossings that we have on both the control system and the border and transport of goods and goods across it. Also the issue of a black charter that has been resolved in the jurisdiction of counterpart Calmeta. And many, therefore, other activities that have been carried out and for which I don't have time to tell everyone here today. But what is particularly important and important is that soon, next week, in fact, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is preparing and one is expanding the meeting with all those who are interested in the grey economy being reduced to as low a level as possible, and that is to say that they are really interested in everyone. And employers, because this unfair competition is actually taking them a chance on life and business. And trade unions because working on black, in fact, as one of the significant forms of gray economy directly affects the standard and life of workers. And at that meeting, therefore, the long-term measures will be considered next week, which would be measures to be implemented in 2006 and 2007 and I believe there will be more new proposals at the meeting, more new activities to be installed in these measures to combat the grey economy already established by the Croatian Government. And I believe that at this job with all the ministries, with all the bodies, with the Chamber of Commerce, with the Chamber of Commerce so far involved in the trade unions, that we will succeed in the ranking of those developed countries of the world, which, after all, bring the participation of the grey economy down to a lower limit and level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39058	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39059	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure say the MP can ask one question. It must be brief and clearly formulated and generally such that it can be responded immediately without preparation. The question asked by fellow Member Sucec-Tracostanec was of such a nature that it could not be answered without preparation and Mr. Minister replied preparedly. He read his prepared answer to the already prepared and delivered question. Which actually makes fun of the whole current morning because HDZ representatives are asking pre-cut questions to which ministers read pre-pre-prepared answers. So the nature of these questions is about why you and how the ministers are so brilliant that your resources work so immaculately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39060	Mr. Stazic, representative Ivana Sucec-Tracostanec has asked in the prescribed form and at the prescribed time to the Rules of Procedure of Minister Branko Vukelic the issue the government's activities are taking to curb the grey economy. Fully set up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as well as any other questions which will come and which are raised from the area, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. So it's not about any damage to the Rules of Procedure, and you know it very well. And please, no more, because you'll be in a situation very soon when other questions are asked by other MPs to deny yourself. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39061	As HDZ's representative, I asked a question that interests all the Croatian public, especially entrepreneurs. And I am pleased with Minister Vukelic's brief response. I expect a longer debate after the report is discussed at the Government on the results achieved by the government's measures on benches in the Assembly and when they come as a proposal for a new measure. So, fellow Trainer, you and I will be able to talk to the public about this subject a lot wider. And my question is very clear, very specific and not pre-prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39062	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Spaincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39063	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. So my question will be addressed in a brief and clear way, and I want to refer it to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr Calmeta. Pacrac and Lipik, after the city of Vukovar, were the biggest victims in the Homeland War and suffered huge war casualties. In addition to all these were in two years of traffic isolation and certainly that the reconstruction of roads, therefore, and which was primarily to be done because of war destruction, but two years of traffic isolation will help further rebuild and develop these two great victims of the Homeland War. The existing road D-47 Lipik-Novska is in extremely bad shape. The initiative of the two cities is old, for the construction of a fast road is 3 to 4 years old and now I want to take the opportunity to take advantage of it, thank the Croatian government for putting it into a 4-year plan to build a fast road D-47 Lipik-Novska. Surely it will contribute to the more rapid and quality development of these two great victims of the Homeland War. Mr. Minister, I'm asking a question and I'm appealing and I'm asking that this four-year plan be one of the building priorities, so that road because that way you're going to help our cities as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39064	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Calemta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39065	Well, thank you. D-47 Lipik-Novska is on the air. At this point, all the necessary preparations are being made for its construction. The moment everything is required, all the necessary documentation and all the studies that precede the construction of such a road begins and its realization. I hope it will be as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39066	Honorable representative Damir Spaincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39067	I'm happy with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39068	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39069	Mr. President, Prime Minister and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I am asked, in fact, the sense of asking questions when the Prime Minister in his answer gives inaccuracy and untrueness. At the same time, he attacks the previous government. It's about that answer to my colleagues' question, because Mr. Gela's predecessor was Mr. Russan, who was in office until 2001. His term of office is up. As acting official, he was succeeded by Mr. Grizel to be appointed Mr. Gredelj in 2001, and Mr. Gelo was appointed 15.7. That's actually the answer to that question. Now let me ask the Prime Minister a question. In fact, the president stands for transparency in spending tax money, which indeed each of us and every citizen must support. However, in a series of inconveniences organised in his short term by the former foreign minister, Mr. Zuzul, who, on behalf of the government, signed the contract with the London lobbyist company DLA Piper... The time of the contract coincides with the time of Mr. Zuzul's daughter's internship in this company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to some sources, which were reached by journalists, DLA sent an e-mail to the foreign ministry about what foreign media are writing about Croatia. And that's why she received about £280,000, or more than 3 million, kuna, I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, how long will you tolerate your close associates using taxpayers' funds for private purposes and personal breakthroughs?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39070	The Prime Minister Dr. Here you go, Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39071	Madam MPs, first of all, is my impression and I have the right to say that in the first part of your address to the Government, you have not asked the question but have gone to commenting on something you may have the right to and may not, and let it go to those who will judge and make a decision, I have not seen the question referred to me, and in the second part of your question you give firm findings as if everything you have said or the journalists have written the truth, I have no intention of answering it in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39072	Dear Representative Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39073	Mr. President of the Parliament and Mr. Prime Minister, a comment on my statement could only be made by the President of the Parliament, not by the Prime Minister, but by the refusal, forgive me if I finish and you will say so. And the refusal to answer my question actually coincides with the announcement by you and your government that you will change the Public Procurement Act where you will propose to abolish a public tender for many cases that have so far proved to be the use of the position, for your own personal benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39074	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39075	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government and colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer the question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Secretary of the Defence Family, the intergenerational solidarity of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. In early June, a two-day national conference of young Croatia was held in the Croatian Olympic Centre Bjeolasica with a theme of youth and others in transition. This is the first time since the Republic of Croatia has held a national conference dedicated to young people in Croatia. My question is this: what was the goal of holding a national conference of young Croatia, what was the response of young people, and have some conclusions been reached at the conference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39076	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39077	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of this month, the first national conference of young people at Beolasica was held, it was very successful, the conference included 160 or slightly more people if we included all those who participated as modernists and representatives of interested and ministries and other bodies, but I must especially point out that on the basis of a public call, young people who represent youth associations as well as youth clubs were also invited and participated also representatives of young political parties in Croatia. The conference was by my court but also by the assessment of the participants was extremely successful because everyone, i.e. all the most important issues that are being debated today by young people in Croatia and, of course, with the main goal of improving the position of young people today, but here all the documents were discussed first and foremost on the national youth policy on how to improve these documents, whether and in what parts of them should be changed, it was also discussed, of course, what a part of young people are particularly concerned about this is employment, education but of course also touched the problem of drugs. What I am pleased to say is that in the past year we supported also 33 youth clubs in the Ministry of the Family, that this year we have increased that number by 10 and so on, from the lottery funds that are partly going to the Family Administration to support 39 associations, or clubs that deal with suppression, or specialising in various projects in countering all forms of addiction. Finally, I would like to point out that the conference was also attended by a representative of the Council of Europe who pointed out that it was actually one of the first such conferences in Europe, i.e. in the countries of transition and that she was extremely pleased during the debate and of course what was happening in special workshops, I would like to inform you that this way of gathering of young people will become traditional and that we are starting preparations for the next youth conference in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39078	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39079	Thank you, I am pleased with the answer and I am pleased that these gatherings will continue and that young people will take advantage of the possibility of active decision-making in politics towards themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39080	Dear Representative Marian Bekavac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39081	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Education and Sport Science Mr. Dragan Primorac. Dear Mr. Minister, a month ago on HTV, a show was shown asking whether there were more patriotic songs in elementary school textbooks before 1990 than there are today. The question is also asked whether children in today's elementary schools know the meaning of important dates of a newer Croatian history than children in France and the United States, Israel and some other countries where children sing patriotic songs and know the history of their own people very well. After the comparison of the teaching programme today and before 1990, there was a devastating fact that before 1990 there were more Croatian patriotic songs than today, and that our children are very well acquainted with the newer Croatian history. Dear Mr. Minister, what you and your Ministry will personally do about this defeating fact in order for our children to get to know Croatia better the history and culture of their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39082	Thank you. Minister Primorac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39083	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, here I will briefly try to say the current history course that you most likely thought about from the 5th to the 8th grade of primary school which is now in importance published in the Educational Vesnik special edition in 1999, has been through in detail those crucial historical moments of Croatia meaning from receiving Christianity to today, and what is particularly important to say I have looked at it in another way from 91 to 99 years until this programme was created, approximately the change of national and international history has changed about 60% in favour of national history. However, what is important to say today is that these days it has been completed as an experimental programme of Croatian national and educational standard involving nearly 300 Croatian experts dealing with these issues through various subjects, and where concrete conclusions have been made regarding Croatian history and you know that it is moving into the implementation of around 50 Croatian schools at the moment, and there is a whole Croatian history from Croatian immigration to... Croatians today, and he is available to you on the pages of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports where you can enter in detail, I will just say some of the topics that exist today. Extraordinary efforts have been made to relieve those historical facts... dates that Croatia's children do not need because they are already burdened with many things. However, issues concerning Croatian history, including the earliest stages, means the immigration of Croats to these areas until the Homeland War, where the creation and development of an independent Croatia are going in quite detail very well explained in the Croatian national educational standard and as such an experimental programme will be available to the Croatian public, parents, teachers, teachers throughout the period from one year until the ninth month of 2006. As such, he is prone to criticism, of course. His opinion was given by a number of history experts because more than 60 people participated there and the Institute of History gave its special opinion. I think that after the Croatian national educational standard we will look differently at Croatian history, objectively, measurablely in accordance with scientific postulates and principles that are available and familiar to all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39084	Thank you. Dear Representative Marian Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39085	Thank you, Mr. President. I am partially satisfied with the answer because my question has been referred to a newer Croatian history and I think our children should know more about it and as far as the experimental program is concerned, I hope that it will get the results we all expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39086	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirko Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39087	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking the Secretary of State Mr. Buconjic. The question is: when will the special police of the Ministry of Interior begin to carry out the sole tasks for which there are, and these are, the resolution of kidnappings, hostage situations and arrests of the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, and whether you plan and if you will allow the smooth functioning of the work of the special police that today at a time of global terrorism plays a key role when we talk about global security in the Republic of Croatia. Today, the 350 special police force is being used to carry out second-rate police tasks. These include, for example, the specific preservation of "hazarded persons" as was the name and last name of General Zagorec. Every day, 20 anti-terrorist units members of Lučko were spent on its watch. Within six months. Now I'm curious about who paid for it and whether they were so many needs. After that, keeping and transporting money from the Croatian National Bank, which is a job of security services rather than anti-terrorist units. After that, I don't need to mention that the average gun age is 20 years in the counterterrorism unit of Lučko. Maybe I shouldn't say that, but I would like to warn the public and especially the members of the government and the prime minister that this should change urgently. A little rifles have been purchased over the last year. The number doesn't matter now. A small part, not a fifth needed for normal functioning of members of the anti-terrorist unit, not to mention the salary for members of the elite Croatian police force who have passed the bloody training after a year's police academy on Mali Losinj whose salary is between 4000 and 4000 and 200 kuna, with the Ministry of Interior still taking away 200 kunas of room fees they have to use in their own unit, on which they have the right to hold the equipment they work with and whether it's correct and whether you think what changes the coefficient of their salary because the people who first come out on the bullet and who will risk their head for a salary of 4 thousand kuna. Not to mention the outflows of the highest-quality personnel who, if they have the opportunity to leave the special police department for a better yet paid place, not to mention housing loans that are not available for members. I'm talking about 350 people at the state level we need to function properly and use the aircraft. Croatia Airlines refuses to give. I ask you what will happen in case of hijacking an aircraft, whether we will call Austrian troops or German to solve it after Croatia's airlines refuse to give the aircraft to train special officers, that we do not have three men in the state who are trained to solve hostage situations on board. The same situation is repeated with the Croatian Railways when it comes to use.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39088	Thank you very much. This issue lasts longer than your struggle over there that you ended in two minutes and something.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39089	The question has been asked, and I ask the answer when these jobs will begin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39090	Thank you very much. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39091	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, I'd just like to tell you that during these years and a half, this government has made a series of efforts to repair and reconfirm the position of specialists. You're probably familiar and if it's not known I'll tell the public that our lead six police departments are ex-Specials. They were all appointed during this government and this leadership of the MUP. A number of also high-ranking ranking officials starting with deputy police directors, department chiefs, police chiefs, police station chiefs are former special forces. These are all people who are in years and in health who no longer allow them to be active to the extent necessary in the special police department. Therefore, we have shown that we really appreciate all the contributions that special police members made in the Homeland War and that they are absolutely accounted for as the most exclusive units of the Ministry of the Interior. We are not satisfied with the equipment and equipment of the special police, however, we are such equipment and equipment and found in part. Last year, the world's most modern 80 Hekler rifles used by the world's most elite special forces were purchased. Several night shooting devices have been purchased, the most modern diving equipment has been purchased to conduct the training of specialists. The most modern ballistic equipment used by specialists and training has been obtained, but also in case of need of intervention in hostage and other crises. We've got 320 special forces in the M.O.P. right now. According to all estimates, this is too large in terms of both population and safety assessment. We are really trying to take full care of these people's wishes, needs, interests, and when new systems are under way, we will certainly try to keep the best, most ready, most capable people in special police units. I say again, it's done enough but not enough and we'll try to do with the kind of budget that we have to ensure first and foremost that members of the special police get that treatment in the equipment they really deserve. For the sake of your information, our special forces have been trained in the hostage crisis in the aircraft that we have provided to them in Austria and we ensure that we are not ready and able to provide them with training in other countries on our own. At the same time, around the hostage crises were members of Germany's special police force training with our special forces. All this really says that this special police force can complete all the tasks, that it can prepare for all the most difficult, most demanding tasks, and that's what the heads of special forces of other states who have been in contact with us have told us directly. And to conclude, this condition is partly found, we are trying to fix it, we are not satisfied with it, but surely in the next year, two, three days, we will significantly improve the material position as regards the equipment of special units and also as regards salaries or personal incomes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39092	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirko Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39093	Mr. Buconjic, I have no doubt that our special forces will perform every task. After all, I had the honor of serving with them for a while but the state’s attitude toward them and everything is shameful. Now you're specifically saying that you got 80 rifles and you said before that you had 320 Special Forces. What about 80 guns? Three hundred and twenty men on the field. And when one goes down, he's gonna add a colleague or something. I mean, it's a shame to the state that the state can't afford 320 guns. The price of one rifle is about 3 to 4000 euros, so it is a symbolic price for one country. Also, shirt vests have long expired and other equipment is in disaster. What you're saying is that special ops have been sent to foreign courses. Yeah, it's true, but they've been sent two, three, and there are three, you know how many there are 320. Of those 320, maybe five people finished their course outside. That's it. I am not satisfied with this answer, and I will not be satisfied until the situation has changed in the Ministry of the Interior or a specific situation. Not a single answer can satisfy me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39094	Thank you. Honorable representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39095	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union of 2001 allowed free and quantitatively unlimited exports of sugar from Croatia to the otherwise highly protected sugar market of the European Union. Thanks to the agreed provisions, Croatia's export of sugar to the European Union has increased to about 100m euros annually. As the European Union cannot unilaterally change contractual trade relations under the provisions of the SAA, the European Commission has asked Croatia to give up these export privileges and to agree to negotiations on the introduction of quantitative restrictions or quotas for the export of our sugar to the European Union. The public has not been informed so far whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia has considered the request from the European Commission. That's why it's a question for the Prime Minister. Has the Government considered this request from the European Commission? If it is why it hides its views from the public and more importantly whether the Government is willing to stand in defence of the interest of the exporter of sugar or better to say the total Croatian economic interests in a way that refuses to negotiate export quotas, it is moreover not mandatory for Croatia to accept the opening of negotiations on the issue under the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39096	Thank you. The question was asked by the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, Mr Peter Cobankovic, and he will answer that question. The question was asked to Petra Cobankovic, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. [[Intruder: If that's what it says.]] Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39097	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Let me answer it very briefly. We are well aware of the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The European Commission has received a request to open negotiations on the fixing of sugar exports-related quotas. We're also very familiar with all this data. We are aware of the importance of sugar exports, as much as it is represented and can show when we combine exports to the European Union for the first three, for the first four months or better, then for the first quarter, practical sugar, the export of sugar to the European Union makes up one third of total exports to the European Union or somewhere a circus of forty-two, three million dollars means in the first quarter. So we really care, we really care what happens and what happens with sugar? But the government also made a decision on the start of negotiations and the conduct of consultations. This is also said by the foreign minister, and does not mean that Croatia will agree to some conditions and some quotas that will not be in the interest of Croatian producers. We will certainly know how to protect the interest of our sugar and sugar producers as well as what we knew through negotiations on an additional protocol or so on. Protocol 7 protects the interest of Croatian producers of agricultural food products. And finally, I might remind some who don't follow so much the external trade balance and say that in the first quarter of this year, exports to the European Union mean 25 has increased by 54%. The index is 154,4%. At the same time, our imports increased by 7 and a half percent. Or the index is 107.5%. It means that the situation relating to the external trade balance with the European Union is being corrected but the issue is focused on sugar and I say responsibly that the Croatian Government and the Ministry of Agriculture will know best how to provide sufficient quotas for our sugar producers from the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39098	Thank you. Honorable representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39099	Thank you. I cannot be satisfied with the answer which confirms that the Government has agreed to negotiate solutions that in no case can be better than the solutions that exist now in the treaty with the European Union. It means anything to agree in the negotiations if it means changing a contract can only be worse than an existing contract. Since it is unlikely that the written answer would be different from this attitude I will not ask for a written reply, and for those interested in Croatian exports and from this oral response it is quite clear to the extent that the Government is concerned about the interests of the exporter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39100	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39101	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to ask this question to the Honorable Minister Calmeta, and it's about paying the pausals on the beds of tourism. I will first focus on the question of one of the most important ones to try to reduce the injustices that have been achieved on the ground by this Law on Paushal. We know that the pausal laws, taxes are unfair, but now with this application on the ground, there's been an absurdity. The destination specified under A category is paid 600 kuna per bed, and this same destination has a belt by the sea, centre of the town and along the highway. An example of Mr. Minister in Zadar. There can't be a bed in, on Borik also taxed on Bill Brig. I'll try to explain it to you plastically. The second category bed by the sea is charged EUR 10 and is filled for 80 days. The second category bed 500 metres from the sea is charged 6 to 7 EUR and is rented for 25 days during the summer season. That's the difference in money like this. 800 EUR is charged, due on one bed and 150 EUR on the other bed. And the tax is 600 kuna for the same bed. So the one who earned EUR 150, he gives half of his profits to the tax and the one who earned EUR 800, and he gives me no idea, an eighth of his earnings. What's the point? Where are the citizens most dissatisfied? Within one destination should make a zone. So a zone by the sea, a 200-metre zone from the sea and a 500-metre zone from the sea. That's the only problem right now. And I think that you, Mr. Minister, can do that to make a citizen try to even himself up to the point that citizens can pay their taxes in a way that's fair enough. I don't think the destinations by the sea in the whole categorized under A, B, C and D zone are fair-cut. I think a destination like any personal destination, meaning Zadar, Pirovac, Pakostane, doesn't matter what place it must have within itself zone to make some distribution of that tax and get fair. My question is, can you as a minister do something about this season that this tax that's in itself being unfair since the pausal tries how much equally to the citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39102	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39103	Thank you, Mr. Representative, for asking. There are two questions. The first question was paused. I will remind here that we have discussed this and that virtually accepted all the remarks and ideas about not paying for everything but that the possibility of a choice is therefore who wants to choose and pay a flat-rate payment. Anyone who doesn't want to pay casually is a so-called little tenant who rents a week or two or has a small number of beds so that they can choose. It's either a cot or it's like a bed so far. I think when that part comes to him being pretty good, he's pretty well-placed. After all, and when there was a vote, it seems to me that it was almost, well, almost by consensus, that these amendments to the law were passed. This second part of what you're talking about, I agree that there is there, that there is a non-resonal somewhere and that there should be certain, certain changes in a way that clearly one that rents 100 or 200 meters from the sea can't pay the same as the one that pays, like the one that apologizes, like the one who lives a mile or a half a mile from the sea. And in that sense, we're going to suggest some kind of change to make that part too, so that that part goes to some, I'm going to say, I'm going to say more honestly, than paying taxes. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39104	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39105	Mr. Minister, I am pleased with your answer. But at the speed of your response on the ground, I don't know how the citizens will be satisfied. I think it should be updated immediately to make it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39106	Thank you. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39107	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. My question is to address the vice-presidents of the Croatian Government to the minister of family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. In the struggle with space, in the race with time, in the fight for material existence over the Croatian family overcame the dragon, the dragon was overcome in the context of alcohol, drugs, increased aggression, divorce, numerous abortions, child neglect. This dragon simply devours our family and in Zagreb every fourth family is divorced, in Split every fifth. In Croatia there are 180 000 single parents, homes for children without adequate parental care are full. You recognized this project, and you started opening a counselling center for children, youth, marriage, and family. How is this project coming along, and what has it been like so far? I wouldn't dare tell you what the results are, because it's too short a time for these counselling centers to talk about. For example, in my town of Split it was opened last year in April of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39108	Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The reasons you listed are just some of the reasons why we started this project. You have every right, many of the problems facing the family today, and these were the reasons why we started to open these counselling centers that I believe will quickly move into really family centers where all the problems you've been talking about will be solved. The first such centre is open in Split, then Dubrovnik, Vinkovci, Karlovac, Sibenik about 14 days ago. We expect a very fast opening of such a counseling centre in Koprivnica. A contract has just been signed, or an agreement. I also believe almost in Osijek and Krapina. Of course, after that, we'll keep going. Experiences so far, even if time is too short, are very good. We already have incentives based on experiences, for example from Dubrovnik, where they have already set up some suggestions that we can do very well at other counselling centres. The basic idea is in one place in the co-operation of the ministry, the county and the city, where I point out, the good co-operation of the ministry, the county and the cities where we have opened consultations so far, but also the health and social care ministries. So we start with projects that primarily have a role to play to strengthen the family, reconfirm the role of the family, but also to support especially families that have disabled children, one parent families, but also to point out that to families who face evil drugs or any other addiction. As the latest data suggests that more than 20,000 addicts have been registered in Croatia. Last year, unfortunately, more than a hundred died, and that's a figure that must be very worried about us. One of the objectives of these consultations is to prevent addiction, to provide so before evil happens family support, to organise natural counselling, to organise different ways to help families. These are counselling facilities that are open, which can also be a family in general and every single child, a young man visits anytime, and I believe that this network will soon grow into real centres that will really empower the family. Here, thank you very much for giving me a chance to talk about it. I think that the position of these consulates is still insufficiently known, that it is both unknown and the fact that in certain environments there are, but the response of those who come looking for help is extremely large. I can say on behalf of the Ministry that I am extremely pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39110	Thank you. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39111	I thank you too, dear Minister, for someone who will give us counselling, which will give us family centers. There are existing laws and regulations, however, family relations cannot be imposed either by law or regulation. Marriage and family relations are never resolved until the end and the family community is an undertaking, an undertaking that needs to be developed and where everyone must never stand in the development of this community and therefore, in crisis situations, this is exactly the kind of counselling that is necessary, and in European countries, marriage and family schools are also open.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39112	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39113	Your Honor, Mr. President, the question is for Minister Neven Ljubicic. Dear Ministers, there is no doubt that the burden of health reform that envisions more expensive participations will fall on the back of the patient, so the differences in Croatia between those who have and have no money will become even more drastic. Let us not forget how the consumer basket covers these food, directorial costs and housing costs while health costs are not included in it. So these reforms will actually contribute to the fact that the poor will have to choose whether to feed the family, whether to pay for the apartment or buy medicines and pay for expensive participations. So there is no doubt that the dissatisfaction of the sick will grow, the dissatisfaction of all those who are referred to health care, and these are the widest layers of Croatian citizens. On the other hand, the Medical Chamber also called yesterday, its President Mr. Minigo and said that according to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, 150 general medicine teams are missing in the paediatrics of 85 teams, and women protection 71 teams are missing. The average age of a specialist doctor in Croatia has been stated for 55 years, and is predicted to be missing 382 interns and 340 surgeons over two years in Croatia. So, we predict dissatisfaction among citizens, impact on the poorest layers and dissatisfaction of doctors and deficits of doctors. How do you plan to overcome this situation with this reform and how you plan to prevent a part of Croatia's citizens from falling into even greater misery by protecting the most fundamental, their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39114	Thank you. Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank Mr. Representative for asking. Look, in some ways this second part of your question might be the answer to this first question. You know that in fact Croatia is in its current way practically financing health care, we are not talking about reform. We're talking about changing funding in health care. This change in health funding as it now stands in Croatia is an exemplar, not only European but also a world exemplar. Such an exemplar is actually impossible, on the one hand you have a limited flow of money, you said it yourself, and that's true. 38% of Croatia's citizens stand out for this health care, we all spend it. On the other hand, our needs are high, and we want to have needs like any developed country. It's a discrepancy. This discrepancy has to be overcome in some way. What you have also warned, and with that I agree, protect all socially sensitive categories and the sick, this system, and I understand why you're actually looking at it somehow because you haven't seen it. And you're right to wonder. However, what is important, we will protect the sick, protect all those who need great care, of course and socially sensitive. In what way? In such a way that we will do categorization of the disease, categorisation of medicines, something that actually Croatia has not accepted so far, and what they have done, for example, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary. So we have to look up to those countries that are very similar to us. As for the doctor and... They're projections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know that every statistic and every projection, so they always have their doubts. Every statistic and every projection serves what you have as an idea. So the question is how much it's actually scientifically founded and how much it's made when we say in the absence of specialists. However, the fact is one, right, I agree with you that we don't have enough pediatricians. So that's why in 2004 and this year over the budget, through the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, we started over 40 specializations precisely in pediatrics and gynaecology. And I think it's actually very good that you raised that question. Of course, this project continues to be part of the financial opportunities that exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39116	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39117	Dear Mr. Minister, we've heard a lot of clever words, but life is ruthless. Humans, people don't exist abstractly but specifically as human destiny, and they don't care about my or your rhetoric if we stay on that level alone. In waiting rooms, hospitals have concrete fates and people who cannot afford health because it has become expensive. At the same time, there are about 350 unemployed doctors at the employment offices. There's a restraining order for a doctor. So there's something wrong with health care. I'm not accusing anyone now, but you're both the Prime Minister and this government. And you bear the responsibility that what is most needed by these people, which is primarily health care, then schooling, I won't talk about another. Now we're talking about health, to afford it, not to be a privilege of the rich, but all of Croatia's citizens. And I say once again, it is inconsistencies that we have at the Department of Employment an unemployed doctor, and that at the same time they are missing and that we have sick people who can't pay to be healthy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39118	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39119	Your Honor, I would like to address the question to Minister Calmeta. By opening a long dream highway Zagreb-Split you have announced the construction of numerous kilometers of highways, roads and roads in almost all parts of Croatia except in its northwest part. You didn't say anything to the Podravsko-Prigorje ipsion, and you didn't spend words on a national important Podravska highway that should connect Central Europe via Varazdin, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Virovitica, Nasica, Osijek, Vukovar with Southeast Europe. Is it true that northwestern Croatia will remain a blind transport Croatian hose and whether citizens with Drava must wait for all other roads to be built in order to start building the Podravska highway and from the settlement... this intense cargo and passenger traffic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39120	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39121	I appreciate the question. Certainly they should not wait for citizens of northeastern Croatia, northwestern Croatia to reconstruct and build roads in that part of Croatia. What you're talking about, the Podravska masteral, it's really one big project. You yourself said it was a road that went from practically the Slovenian border to Ilock. I have to say that parts of that future Podravska highway are already working. It's about the roundabouts of Osijek, it's about the bypasses of Varazdin, it's about the detours of Virovitica. So these are all parts of that future Podravska highway. What has been done so far when we talk about the entire route then we must say that all the counties have been agreed upon and consistent with the spatial-planning documentation where this new road route would pass. Then, the first phase of the project preparation is done and all that needs to be preceded by the construction of that highway. I can say that with these detours, that job has already begun. Be assured that it will not stop and that it will ultimately be done as planned, as agreed with all the counties and that we will also have this very important transport link from the border with Slovenia to Ilok, i.e. to the border with Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39122	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39123	Well, I'm convinced that the Podravska highway will be built, and the only thing that we're different is in the dynamics of construction. I really think that apart from the bypasses that should be connected to something, so those bypasses should be connected to that fast road that's not being built today. I ask you and appeal on behalf of the citizens along with Drava who have also shown their protest and personally, but also through the leader of the units of local self-government to put the construction of the Podravska highway really into priorities because you yourself were forced to make a decision to ban freight traffic on the Podravska highway, but today it is equally intense in number and type of vehicle. Only now that it's driven by domestic carriers, they don't drive foreign carriers anymore. So, even more so, the traffic intensity of the Podravi highway has increased further. After the construction of the highway, I think this will become one of the key roads to be built and please put it into priorities. And if there is a promised rebalancing plan for the construction of public roads in Croatia by 2009 to include the Podravska highway in the plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39124	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39125	Mr. President, members of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking Professor Ljubic, Minister of Health and Social Care. As you know, thanks to the Franciscan province of Bologna and the children's Italian festival "Golden Cekin" 13 years ago in Slavonski Brod, the Centre for the Rehabilitation of Children and Child Rehabilitation with the most severe forms of disability was opened, primarily with the result of cerebral paralysis, but also with children with war injuries. Unfortunately, due to the unsettled way of funding this year, for the first time, the Centre was forced to close one part of its activities, or part of it. It is a stationary that has about 20 beds and has children from more distant parts of Slavonski County, which serve not only to rehabilitate children but also to train parents who can then continue the same exercises with children. The issue is referred to the government's activities, i.e. your ministry, in order to reopen the stationary. Or the way in which, to me, it's completely understandable, it's a private institution. However, the institution and the institution that has certainly shown their quality and expertise the justification for opening and which is very much needed in this area of Croatia because it is the only one from Zagreb to Danube. So how will the government help, or your ministry, to continue the smooth functioning of this facility? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39126	Thank you. Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank Mr. Representative for this question. In fact, before I actually answer, we might actually be able to explain because it seems to me that this problem is somehow being updated, which is practically what it is. It's a polyclinic, a polyclinic is practically a service that can be organised as two infirmarys, or a clinic and a lab. This system of Zlatni Cekin is practically organized as a polyclinic and has been agreed with the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, however, beyond the knowledge of the Ministry of the Problem I personally learned about it at the beginning of May, it turns out that the hospital in Slavonski Brod had practically one part of the stationary within that polyclinic, which did not actually have one agreement of the Ministry of Health of the then or current Ministry of Health and Social Care. Of course, that's one problem because having a stationary activity within a polyclinic isn't the first one under the law, the second professional question is actually who controls the surveillance in that segment. This is extremely important because it is absolutely certain that this problem will be updated, why it will be updated, exactly, inside it is a regular rehabilitation centre within a polyclinic where 22 children are coming if I do not cheat on rehabilitation treatment, it is a sensitive population, children with special needs, and the modality of how we are going to solve it now, why, because some travel 60 km, I have to admit right now, we have three solutions that would come into consideration, of course it's a little difficult, why, because the budget year is surrounded and needs to be set aside new ones for that, but I hope that this problem will soon be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39128	Dear Representative Drago Prgomet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39129	I thank you for your understanding I know that last year the Ministry really helped to a significant extent that this institution function normally but I am using the opportunity in my comment to call on the local heads of the county, the town of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding counties because I believe that these units should also find their interest in helping this institution and its normal functioning thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39130	Thank you. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39131	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Before I ask the question, I would like to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Mr. Prime Minister on the completion and opening of the Zagreb – Split road, which was launched by the first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman in late 93, by breaking the tunnel of St. The rock and everything under the grenades, thank you all. Now I'd like to ask Mr. Primorac a question. We are witnessing these days in the assembly that there has been a lot of debate about schooling, and I am interested in a brief and clear question and I would like to ask the answer to clarify how the application of the Bologna Process is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39132	Thank you, Minister Primorac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39133	Thank you very much for your question, here we are today bringing to the final stage and we call it the finals of the first phase of the Bologna Process, one of which I am and believe the entire academic community is extremely proud because on this issue a national consensus has been reached, and thank God it would be good that on other issues such a situation is also. Over the last few years, the entire academic community has been on its feet. To run the Bologna Process which means the government before us, it launched, we continued, had to make a series of legal adjustments. Overall, we are talking here about 15 amendments and additions to the Law of Regulations, approval of foreign qualifications, diploma and in fact we have launched this process by taking care that this will be the first amendment of Croatian higher schools after 2nd. World War I, which is an extremely large and demanding process and you know how sensitive it is yourself. By adopting all the provisions of the Law, by setting up national councils for higher education, the National Council for Science, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, and by having the whole funding strategy, we have launched the whole process in collaboration with the European institutions dealing with the issue of higher education and around 1050 reviewers, which, from country to country, took part in the evaluation of a total of 835 study programmes. Of course, I do not have time to enter the entire philosophy of the binary system here because Croatia has for the first time defined its system of higher education through higher schools and through professional studies. At this point in time and we will have press conferences after the evaluation and extremely hard work done by the National Council and the Agency, we will issue passes for 640 study programmes, supplementals on the condition of 36 with a letter of expectations, of course when the devices complement them 13, the refusal solution exists today for 11 study programmes and what is extremely important to say that 89 study programmes have been withdrawn by higher schools because they have not met the conditions. The process and the whole number of study programmes withdrawn are trending with Europe because the review found that they do not meet the conditions or that they do not have professional staff or that they have staff who hold classes in several places. And, of course, it is extremely important to say that Croatia has been in Europe since the 10th month at least in terms of higher education, regardless of what political decisions are on other issues and we are proud of that. On the other hand, I would like to say that several thousand people participated in the full process of implementing the Bologna Process and that there were more than 150 public debates. And today in my hands is the thematic number of Vesniks dedicated to studies from 2005 to 2006 and in fact the final phase of the first phase of implementation of the Bologna Process. In order for Croatia to be competitive in Europe with regard to the implementation of the Bologna Process, we are now moving extremely strongly into phase two after phase 1 and this second phase says that of 1. 1. In 2006, the funding system shifts to universities, so-called Lansam model, a advice has been formed to finance the scientific activity of higher education with a projection of where higher education is going for the next 5 years and what is particularly important to say, legal integration of the university has all the conditions for implementation in 2007. With regard to higher education, Croatia is not behind Europe and after this successful phase that will be these days and when students start their classes I assure you that Croatia will ensure that its universities are enrolled and that many students from the surrounding countries so I am not afraid whether a Croatian student goes to foreign universities. If we keep this quality we work on, then these neighbouring countries should be afraid that their best students do not come to study at Croatian universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39134	Thank you. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, not only am I satisfied with this answer, I think we're all happy with this answer, thank you again, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39136	Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking Mr. Bishop a representative question. On 29 May 2002, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the termination of the Law on the Determination of War and War Victims 2. The World War and the Pores have been abolished by a parliamentary commission. Mr. Ministers on the same day of May 29th, the Croatian Parliament reached the following conclusion, I will quote only one part: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to prepare and ensure within 6 months all the necessary normative, legal and scientific and technical and material assumptions for the work of the National Centre, Institute as a special institution or autonomous institution at the Croatian Institute of History which would form the Croatian Parliament instead of the so far Commission for the identification of war and war victims 2. World War I with basics." One of them is, I don't have time to read everything, investigate and care for decent marking and protection of graves and cemeteries of all war and war victims 1st and 2nd. World War II as well as the victims of the Homeland War. For the Homeland War, we have passed the Law and we are establishing a memorial-documentation centre. Mr. Minister, my brief question is, who will determine the historical facts of the victims, i.e. victims 2. World War I and Pores.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39138	Thank you. Ministers of Culture Bozo Biskupić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, it is true that what you have said is that the Parliament has passed the Law on the termination of the establishment of war and war crimes but the Government, it should be mentioned, is that, in preparation for the adoption of this law, the government has made a decision to suspend the validity of the establishment of war and war victims in connection with war and war victims during and shortly after World War II and that it has actually committed to implementing these decisions by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the State Attorney's Office. It should also be mentioned that the government then made a decision to launch as you have already mentioned scientific research, especially from the time of the Homeland War and tasked the Croatian historical institute for the holder of these researches. At the same time, she established scientific advice for monitoring research and also encouraged the Ministry of Science to study the entire period from 1918 to the end of the Homeland War, of course with a special emphasis on political persecution and crimes both during and after World War II. And there were just over twenty projects reported at the time, and those projects are ongoing. I am asking Minister Primorac to report in writing which projects are funded because all projects and activities are financed through the Ministry of Science. And of course, not only are the projects being financed, but in which, of course, the results have been reached so far because it is one process that is not possible or will be able to end in a short period of a year, two or three, and as these projects are some in that effort I think the Ministry of Science has all the information about it, so I hope that we will be able to give it to us. The conclusions that were related to the section of the Ministry of Culture, which is to prepare the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, have been implemented and you, the Parliament passed this law in December last year. So far, according to that decision, the Government of Research needs to be conducted by the Croatian historical institute, although I think that when it is established in this Croatian Memorial and documentation centre, the Croatian Archives was also in charge of providing full assistance in researching documents and of preparing of course documentation on all of this. I think that we will be able to establish together with the Croatian historical institute and, of course, we must also set up an institution that will then take care of the victims of porn during World War II and the porn of World War II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39140	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39141	Mr. Minister, there is an item in the budget from somewhere 500 thousand kuna that has not been spent and is always promising and it has already been three years that the historical institute and other institutions will start working on a very important part of Croatian history and in the hope that this will happen I hope that I will no longer ask you a representative question. Mr. President, just one more minute can I say something? There's a question today about Mr. Gel's shift. Well, in the former coalition government in 2002, you replaced Mr. Rusan with a former director.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39142	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39143	It doesn't matter because they keep saying that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39144	Don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39145	So let me, if you let them, let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39146	You can.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39147	They replaced Mr. Russan in 2002 after a census in the Republic of Croatia because he refused to publish counterfeit data. Here, now give me a warning, what I'm gonna do, but that's the truth. Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39148	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39149	President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Assembly! I ask the question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, we have witnessed after the May 15th local elections to manipulate the Electoral Law for representatives of national minorities at the constitution of representative bodies of local and regional self-government. I'm not against the rights of national minorities, but I am against any manipulation. The elected representatives of the Serb national minority are resigning and are being replaced by Croats, thus deliberately manipulating them to achieve the lack of representation that has been achieved by the elections. And there is a possibility that these representatives may be replaced by the unselected representatives of the same national minority on that same list. I believe it is inadmissible that after such manipulations it goes into the expansion of representative bodies, which leaves the electoral majority a minority. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, do you also believe that these events are manipulation? If so, what will you do to stop the Office of State Administration and end these manipulations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39150	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, here's just a short word to finish this whole Gale story. In the meantime, I checked the exact data related to him, and it's true that Zgrebec and Leko represented them. He was therefore relieved in 1995 and re-appointed during my government but it is true that we do not know why Mr. Russan was appointed at the time of the former government. I stand up for it and I think we all need to do everything that expertise and not political similarity. In the case of Gel, we set him up, we solved him. Here, so much for that. Now that this is about me, I know this information, and it's true that this case happened, and it's not good. We are all for the full application of the Constitutional Act on National Minorities and on the representation of national minorities in units of local and regional or regional self-government. At present, however, the office, the Central State Administration Office, was ordered to investigate what legal options could prevent the manipulation of council members. Unless there is a legal justification to prevent this, therefore, because it is wrong for someone to be elected and the next day to resign in order to come to the Croats and then to come to the minority on the key and support the coalition. It's all, of course, calculated. This is not good because the law should allow representation of national minorities and when a councilman is elected if there are no objective reasons for health, going to a higher duty then it is necessary to fulfil that councilman's duty. Therefore, this question is whether it has run and, if it does not, cheat voters and does some artificial structure of support for the majority who do so. And that's why we're gonna work on it. I also appeal to our coalition partners and those who support the parliamentary majority for minority representatives to jointly find this solution, or to make such a practice. We do, if the law allows it, there's nothing we can do. If the law allows a councilman to resign regardless of the reasons, then he resigns but it is not good to create an artificial majority. That's where I agree with you, and we all have to work on it together. But there's also something else, that we need to do much more so that we don't just stay if it's some council members of national minorities, that we have to do a lot more and we have to fully apply the Constitutional Law on National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39152	Thank you. Dear Representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm half satisfied with your answer because I thought you wouldn't say what's wrong but what you're going to do to prevent that law from being manipulated. Namely, you confirmed what I said but I was hoping that you would at least say if it happened or if it happens you would urgently go into amendments and additions to the law to avoid these manipulations. Anyway, you might want to give me a written answer to this question so you can have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39154	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we would now set a recess by 12 o'clock. There are 16 other MPs and advocates to ask questions. The first in line is the respected representative Ljubica Lalić at 12 o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the current morning, by asking parliamentary questions. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39156	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for Minister Cobankovic, whom I first wish the Minister's name to be happy. Well here are dear ministers today in Croatia no more posters, but we remember these posters. Those posters were being preached, we bought all the wheat, and that's the truth. Last year, the state bought about 380 thousand tons of wheat and took a 400 million kuna loan for it. We're convinced that the model is perfect and that the state will earn money on that job. Short luck turned into the sea because today there are about 263,000 tons in silos, and this year's harvest knocked on the door. To ensure accommodation, Mr. Minister, you must sell at least 100 thousand tonnes of wheat to export. The only price possible is 60 limes. Since the ransom price was one kuna including the price of accommodation, the cost is now kuna and 40 limes. So only on the first 100,000 tons of the state will lose 80 million kuna. In total, more than 200 million kunas will be lost. That's what's left of a successful job. I'm asking you, what model is this year's harvest going to take place? By this alone for you successful or failure to solve the wheat problem at the beginning of the year, all for one-quarter of the loss you've made to the budget? What will be the ransom price? When will money be paid and what will be the incentive?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39157	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for your congratulations and allow me to answer your question. The fact is, last year, we took part in the state's participation through the department of supply supplies in the purchase of wheat. She bought 318 thousand tons. Up until now, she's placed 70,000 tons, so somewhere around 250 thousand tons of it's still in the warehouses. As far as this year's harvest is concerned, she's at the door, and when we decided last year on that model we decided on, we said it was the last year when the state would intervene in that way for wheat. As for this year's wheat harvest, we have a regulation on the wheat market. The regulation on the market order will likely go to the next cabinet session next week and will then be adopted. The regulation will set out the guaranteed price, the price of circus 75 lipa which is at the level of the guaranteed prices in the European Union countries and above, higher the price guaranteed than the price guaranteed in the neighbouring country, in Serbia-Montenegro. The price guaranteed is one of the categories of the regulation on the market order and the obligation of the State is that, unless the wheat is bought at that price, it purchases all the surpluses offered. The second category or second, second parameter to be established by the market order Regulation is a minimum price. The minimum price, in accordance with the Agriculture Act, is the price at which purchasers are obliged to purchase a particular product, subject to the subsidisation of a part of the State in that minimum price. We know very well what the current situation is with wheat? What is the situation with excess wheat in our environment and in the countries of the European Union from last year's harvest on the one hand, and we also have the 2005 harvest projections with equally certain surpluses. So let me tell you, we're expected to have 20 million tons of extra wheat in our nearest environment. Croatia expects a harvest of wheat in order size somewhere around 500 thousand tonnes, which is conditionally said something below our needs. For these reasons, when we take that Croatia has wheat from last year's harvest and this wheat so that there is no fear that Croatia will not have enough wheat. Now let me go back to what you're probably interested in. There will be no problem and no problem will be about the accommodation of the wheat. That's the least of the problems. But to go back to the market order regulation where I said one parameter is guaranteed price. The second parameter is the minimum price I hold that we will determine at a height of 90 lipa with a certain coverage of storage costs, reception and the like up to 6 lipa per kilogram and so the ransom price for producers would be 90 lipa. As regards support in line with the current situation with the heated surfaces, it may be responsibly stated that this year 1650 kuna or the maximum amount of incentive will be paid for the wheat. Which means, ultimately, that the practically financial result for wheat producers will be very similar to last year. And I think that's how we created one, I'm free to say a good framework for the wheat to be directed towards the market, according to the processors on the one hand, and on the other hand, that, to regulate and to get the state out of part of the wheat problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39159	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39160	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, I am not satisfied with the question because the answer, with the answer you gave, does not give a message: "Calm down my flock because I am with you." 75 limes guaranteed the price next to the blue diesel, which with two kunas and three limes went to four kunas and sixteen limes, with the recognition that only 70 thousand tons of wheat were sold, I wonder where, where did the remaining wheat come from? It's probably over the border. I didn't know Bosnia and Herzegovina had become a cereal. It used to be Slavonia, and now we are now feeding from Herzegovina and Dalmatia. Dear Minister, you're optimistic when you say the ransom price will be 90 lipa plus what the state gives. Buyers do not accept this because they can obtain 60 lip wheat from imports and imports. One is the only message for our peasants. Prepare tractors. You'll see us on the roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39161	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39162	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister! One of the biggest troubles a man can face is being a worker from Croatia. Labour insecurity in Croatia has reached a worrying level. The Institute of Contracts is being played for a certain time because more than 80% of new employees are working on the contract for a certain period of time and are thus constantly faced with job uncertainty. Croatian labour is unpunished. Many workers work on dangerous, underpaid jobs. They accept longer hours. Unpaid overtime and have little or no social protection. More than 30,000 workers are on minimal. Some don't get that either. And the cost of living is European. Out of fear of losing and such a job, they do not ask questions about working conditions and their labour and social rights. While on the other hand, employers don't rarely hire strangers and do it in black. Here's the director of the hotel "new" found precisely in such a thing mocking us, mocking you, mocking the state. He's mocking the whole system. So it's all a common-known situation for Croatian labour today. Tell the prime minister why the government has persistently refused to sanction under the threat of criminal responsibility of those employers who deny paying off a fair and deserved salary to a worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39163	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39164	Mr. President, Madam Representative. It is a very big problem, and I agree with you in the assessment that not only the rights of workers have been lifted, but they have been brought into a difficult position in which hard and almost impossible to resist employers. And in doing so, not only is the worker at risk and his social status at risk, but the state is also threatened because this one doesn't pay the tax then and the full pay contributions give him the minimum wage, and then the rest eventually on black or not know how. Besides hiring strangers, but I wouldn't exempt our entrepreneurs from that practice. You mentioned strangers. It's true that they do, too, but they do, unfortunately, ours too. So Croatian entrepreneurs and this is one of the big topics not only of my government, but of all governments, former, future etc. and in that sense, I think that we must first of all achieve a broad consensus of the social partners and one of the topics at the next session of the Economic and Social Council will be how to solve this problem in general, the problem of the gray economy, and that is the grey economy. First of all, how do you protect workers' rights? How do you protect these people from such employers? There are several solutions, we are thinking about them, we are going to refer them to the Parliament, but we would like to make one perhaps broader consensus of all political parties, but also of all the social partners and employers and trade unions around this big topic, which is a big, big problem for the workers, but I repeat once again for the state, and finally I think of the employers as a problem. Because if an employer escapes from the law, flees from the fiscous, treats the worker in such a way, in the long run harms himself. Therefore, there is no solution from the sleeves here, there is no solution from the sleeves. Of course, we need to strengthen what I can say right away, which is that we've already done, that we've stepped up the inspector's surveillance, strengthened it. However, this also raises the question of paying the inspector, because if you send them on the ground, etc. It can't be an ordinary salary, but we also have to evaluate their work to pay even more. But we won't solve it either. The old question that always remains and who will control the controllers, who will control the inspectors? So it's about one phenomenon, not one crime, one phenomenon that we have to eradicate, but it won't be rooted out overnight. We will therefore consider this topic with the social partners and with employers and with unions and review what solutions we will bring and refer them to the Croatian Parliament. But it's true that the problem exists, it's true that it also hurts the workers. It is true that it harms the state, but that is also true, and we must say that it also damages long-term employers who have such practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39165	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39166	I agree with your findings, but you haven't answered my specific question, because the government with a whole series of amendments to the law has just enabled incorrect capital to behave like this and similar behavior, and the protection of workers and it has been formally reduced, not to mention the practice. In such a way, here, it is possible to do exactly what is currently happening and Mr. Prime Minister here while you put Croatia on the international stage on hold, better said in the donkey bench, slowly but surely turning Croatian dream into a Croatian sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39167	Dear Representative Joseph Judge, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39168	... for the ongoing alignment of pensions with nominal wage growth or the determination of the current value of pensions. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] So far, we have been satisfied with this formula and retired, and it seemed to me that it was government. However, government representatives have recently claimed that the formula is unsustainable for the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and representatives of the International Monetary Fund that the share of pensions is too high in the social gross product of 14%. However, the data says otherwise. The state budget with regular compliance for the first half of this year was 2.3 and a realistic estimate for the second term of 1.6 on pensioners will save 1.1% this year. So the money is not a problem and the budget is not compromised. Second. The International Monetary Fund data is not correct, there has never been a 14% pension exemption. Retirement for pensions in this year is 12.56% for ordinary pensions 10.22 and for pensions under special conditions 2.34. If something has grown in 2003, there have been an increase in preferential pensions from 1.87 to 2.34 in 2004. Mr. Prime Minister, who cares about the formula so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39169	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39170	Mr. Representative, first of all, we need to remind the public that this government has brought about a change in the formula for reconciliation in favour of the pensioners. It is something that is often forgotten in public and spoken little of in public. Because when something good is done, then it's thought to be self-comprehensible, that it should have happened anyway, and then why didn't it happen before? So, I'm asking that it be determined not to compliment the government, but because we are really interested and that we are at heart improving the material position of the pensioners. In Croatia, we respect and respect those who have worked in Croatia or elsewhere and have the right to a Croatian pension. Therefore, the material position of the pensioners is at our heart. But I will also say very publicly, very openly and publicly what we are in our talks at the beginning of the coalition co-operation negotiations, or in the co-operation in the parliamentary majority, that you, too, who represent retirement associations and pensioners, have a high degree of responsibility for the state of public finances and that we have said from the beginning that we will coordinate pensions and improve the material position of pensioners in accordance with the state's capabilities. So, the two principles that we're also talking about on behalf of the ruling party, that is, the party that, and you who are...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39171	My friend Cain, calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39172	I don't believe it, I didn't hear what you said, but I don't think you have a problem with this. So, I want to say two principles of our cooperation, the co-operation of the parliamentary majority in which the Croatian party is retired, which is that we want to improve the material status of pensioners. And secondly, we need to take care of the state's possibilities. These were the two principles that we agreed on and agreed on last year and last year we just changed the formula in a way that you were satisfied, we changed, we included 6% plus 100 kn in the base. We've passed the Retirement Act, at the end of the talks and arrangements on how to form the fund. So it's that this government is really doing everything and much more than many people thought of on this plan, but of course our pensioners and I understand that it can't be that much, because a lot of us could, we could list a lot of segments where we could even improve their status. So let me get this straight. Straight as you asked a direct question. No one's in the best interest, nor will I allow the pensioners' rights to be reduced. But neither can anyone be in the interest of the state beyond its capabilities, through its ability to provide anyone with any group, any group in Croatia status that we cannot monitor in view of the state's capabilities. Therefore, it is these two principles and I am convinced that in our talks we will find the right environment, find what we can represent, taking care of improving the material status of pensioners, but also about the possibilities of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39173	Dear Representative Joseph Judge, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39174	I would ask that equal status also have preferential pensions in coordination and ordinary pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39175	Thank you. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the government. I will refer my question to the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. One of the many programs in your ministry, and in order to improve the living conditions of Croatian defenders, is also a training and employment programme for Croatian defenders. Significant funds have been allocated for the establishment of Croatian defenders' cooperatives. How many cooperatives have been established so far and what effect do you expect from this project?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39177	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, one of the most important objectives of this Croatian government in the segment of care, i.e. care for Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned and missing defenders, is the employment of Croatian defenders. As a result, the government has adopted a employment programme from 2004 to 2008 and this programme, for which about 30 million kuna is allocated from the state budget each year, we will, I'm sure, manage to solve a good part of the problem of unemployed Croatian defenders and children, I repeat once again, dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. Because children are included in that program. What is new in the programme is, among other things, a measure to establish Croatian defenders' cooperatives. In the last year when, therefore, we started, thanks to the ministry's support, 10 cooperatives were founded. Each cooperative gets an incentive of 150 thousand kuna and I am pleased to say that, from then on, the number of interested people has increased significantly. So now, in 2005, we have requests to establish 19 new cooperatives, and I believe that all those who have submitted the request and managed to provide support, i.e. all of us, will be able to give support to a ministry that does not only stop in cash support, but we are also trying in other ways to address the various problems of land and all other problems to the problem of space in cooperation with other ministries, in particular with the Ministry of Agriculture and local administration units, to ensure, therefore, the conditions for the operation of these cooperatives. What I would particularly like to point out is that they co-operate and begin to connect with each other. The day before yesterday, for example, I was in the Society of Long Resa, a defense community connected to Rab's cooperative. They started off with a great program because they make vegetables. The hotel complex program on Rab, therefore, provides the hotel complex. Now, as of July 1st, one truck a day will move for Rab. So, the two cooperatives had a great connection. There are opportunities, therefore, to penetrate the market. More and more space is being released because it is mainly cooperatives dealing with agricultural, or craftsmanship and I think these, I would say, last year's pilot projects show which direction we actually have to go through these employment programmes. The program is 6, but this cooperative program has, and that is, the most interesting thing for it. The number of cooperatives joining each other is different, but more and more are involved in the work of existing cooperatives. And in this way I believe that here we will solve one of the biggest and most significant problems of unemployed Croatian defenders. Only those who work and, of course, live with dignity and dignity from their work can be satisfied and, behold, I want to say in the end that we will try to strengthen this measure, give it even more importance. And I would also like to point out that at least 80% of our demands from the ministry towards other ministries or other authorities have come across a good echo. So I believe that everyone will slowly recognise the importance of this measure in particular and that the number of cooperatives in this year will at least double. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39179	Thank you. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39180	Thank you, Madam Minister. I am pleased with this answer, but I must say, I have referred for the reason that the Croatian public really knows little about this good project. I come from a town in Sisak that in one small town, Black has founded such a cooperative. They are doing a lot of work, but I say there is very little public talk about this project that has been very well received among Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39181	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39182	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the government. I want to ask the Prime Minister a question. Prices of oil derivatives, we see for ourselves, they go wild. We know the reasons, from the American intervention in Iraq and beyond. I agree, it is not the Croatian government's fault. In June 2003. One barrel of oil was $25. It's already $43 in June 2004. The end of June this year is $60. However, your government and you yourself, Mr. Prime Minister, have announced that if the Super 8 Kuna fuel passes, there will be an intervention by reducing excise duty. The question is whether it's going to happen. Whether the government will cut excise duties because oil is too expensive in the Republic of Croatia. For example, we have more expensive oil than rich Ireland, super-rich Switzerland, we have oil or gasoline more expensive than super-priced Japan, Czech Republic and so on. Specially affected are the users of blue diesel, fishermen. There are certainly farmers, and what will be winter when it comes to order and buying a lot of oil, we can only guess about that. The more an initiative arises that, in fact, they suggest in the government that the government make a pact with the unions on the freezing of public sector wages, and then that there will be no problem with pensions either. Indirectly to reduce wages in the public sector, to retain or reduce pensions. One word, I'm asking a question about this vine of oil. Will the government intervene by reducing excise duties?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39183	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39184	When the time comes, Mr. Representative, I'm sure the government will intervene. But I want to say that the problem is not simple, which you have warned about, and that it is not only connected, nor has anything to do with Croatia. It has to do with the world market price situation. And there we can be, and it's not a pessimistic approach, we can be really concerned about price developments, world prices. In fact, it's about the forecasts saying that the price could reach 80 or maybe $90. Which will be, of course, one great shock for the entire world economy and we in Croatia must already start preparing if such development will indeed be realistic. And why many macroeconomies in the world claim to be real. Therefore, it is a very serious problem, and when the time comes we will intervene when we estimate that it is the right time on the Croatian market.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39185	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39186	Not that the time has come, that time has actually passed, you yourself have recently announced that you will intervene when that super crosses 8 kuna. On Monday, there is a new accumulation of oil, oil prices in Croatia, still below 8, 7, 8, but 7.8 kuna is more than in Ireland, Switzerland or Japan, or the Czech Republic. More expensive than us are Italy, Germany, France, and Norway, which is rich in oil, however, these are economies 10 times richer than the Republic of Croatia. I am aware of the fact that in this cost of oil, there are also excise duties that go into the budget, and the 0.60 lip for highways and should modernise refineries with 500m euros or dollars but I think it is still necessary to stand on the ball at this point because it has become an unbearable budget expenditure for almost every average Croatian citizen.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39187	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39188	It's about a really worrying fact that seems to or missed the government, I hope it's just missed. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] In fact, about 120,000 tons of dangerous chemicals are imported into Croatia annually, plus, Croatia's roads carry about 40,000 tonnes to other countries. Until now, the control of imports of these dangerous chemicals and dangerous substances of biocidal products of different species has been carried out at the border and it has been established whether these chemicals can be used and if they are allowed to be introduced into Croatia, it has been done by the Department of Toxicology. Unfortunately, in 2003, the Toxicity Act was repealed and the Chemical Act was passed, and since 2003, when it was passed to this day twice delayed and did not enter into force and this control was already carried out in a way that was already described in the borders. Unfortunately, under the new law that applies to chemicals that enter into force on July 1st, that means two days from now, and the government has not yet delayed its application for the third time, the sanitary control of imports of chemicals beyond our borders will be completely absent, because the office that should only control paper, so there will be no more border controls, but only the paper that should have been manufactured has not yet been approved by the Government. So I ask you nicely to answer, does this mean that after July 1st, almost 200 thousand tonnes of chemicals will be imported into Croatia without any control.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39189	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Here you go, Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39190	Of course, Mr. Representative, that's not going to happen, we have a meeting at the government's meeting right now, and we'll let you know after, we don't have a decision to postpone application from July 1st or not, but we'll definitely report tomorrow what the government is going to make, which decision we're making, but we're taking care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39191	Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39192	Thank you very much as a contribution to your cabinet session, then just one sentence, Mr. Prime Minister. This state's toxicology office has cost nothing and all the surveillance they've been doing at the borders so far has cost nothing, according to the new Chemical Act, the new office that's being set up will be financed from the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39193	Thank you. Dear Representative William Herman, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39194	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, when I was thinking about asking what kind of question were two options, the first question was to be an attractive question of what kind of love is in that or this assembly or city council towards HDZ, so the incredible transitions are taking place, or what kind of love for the likes of the Glavas list, and yet one question that is not attractive is happening, and it is sad to say that in our Croatian it has become a general attractive question about the clinical hospital Osijek, according to which the government is clearly in debt of 20 million kuna. Not to tell the whole story because of the exchange of certain properties, the return of property, the debt happens and it's contractual nature, 20 million kuna. Mr. Prime Minister, you have worked in Austria, you know the treaty sanctity well as one type of institute, and the political opportunities of Slavonsko-Baranja towards the government and you, too, would be very sad if in this political capture due to these relationships there was a possible response to respect for the contractual sanctities. I'm asking you for a clear answer because last time I didn't get it from your deputy, then I was told the same question that you'd be seen first, so it'll answer, and then it didn't answer for a long time, and when answered, it was answered the following way. The debt will go into the three-year budget, you haven't seen that answer, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm ready to hand it to you, and I'm sure as a person who knows the contractual sanctity can go on, you will, you can. Here he comes. So, I will conclude the sanctity of the contract, unequivocally, since you did not know the assumption of that answer, now I expect you to answer unequivocally that the clinical hospital Osijek belongs to 20 million kuna, not over three years of planned budget, but directly because the obligation comes from the contract, it is necessary, it is important and other ongoing needs for the clinical hospital Osijek should simply be resolved, and not through the political relations Drmić - Šišljagić – Glavas, it is a powerful troika whether in relations with the centre, but whether it is calmly concerned with the quality of life of Slavon-Baranjski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39195	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Here you go, Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39196	May I see Mr. Representative's answer before I answer? Before I answer, let me see what it says. Not only do I see what it says, since it's been quoted. Mr. Representative, thank you for this response you gave me, and I will tell you that the government is fully in line with its obligation to the clinical hospital in Osijek, regardless of these political opportunities you spoke of, regardless of the state of one or another list, this has nothing to do with central state policy and health obligations in Slavon-Baranja County. And in order to not only stay on this one and thank you for bringing me that answer, I'll say that 14 days ago let it be known in public, that the department of intervention cardiology is open, so for those people who need to save their lives after a heart attack, that the reorganization and restoration of the ear, throat and nose disease department is ongoing. So that's what the public needs to know, those two things, and that for next year we're planning cardio surgery and now it's going to be in space. That fourth thing that we opened up a cyto-genetic emergency medical lab. Therefore, there are several very important projects that we have already implemented at Osijek Clinical Hospital. And in order for us not to just think about it, we believe that you will support it, that the Clinical Hospital Osijek as the backbone of the health care of eastern Croatia will soon cross over to the Clinical Hospital Center. So you can see from these answers our relationship to the hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39197	Honorable representative William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39198	Well, I was now a member of the government at one point if I understood all this together because I gave the document in good faith and I'm not leaving it to you because there are my notes there. Maybe that's something for the next answer, question. But look, Mr. Prime Minister, there's a very unusual situation going on here. It's like a little experiment. You're talking about current investments in Osijek Clinical Hospital. It's not about that, it's necessary to do and if you do that it's okay. By the way, you're late. But if it's invasive cardiology, for example, then take care of it, but this is a debt, a contractual debt due to a property that's dedicated to the D.A.'s diocese. I want a written answer. I am not like Šišljagic, Drmic and Glavas saying we will write a letter to the prime minister because they have not yet decided to open that so-called. a political battle on regionalism and decentralisation. This is life and this is a direct contribution to regionality and decentralisation. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm looking for a written answer in which I'm sure because you respect the contracts, you've been out there, and you know what it does that makes you manifest yourself in such a way that the contract will be respected and 20 million kuna will be paid. In that hope, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39199	Thank you. Deputy Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39200	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Damir Polancec, in charge of the economy. I also asked the question in writing, so I expect a competent answer. I ask why the laws of the Republic of Croatia are being violated when imports of beef and beef from Brazil and Poland and do not respect quality and quality? I am asking this because certain rules of the ministries are placed outside the law or above the law, and because of the undefined competences of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Health, there is actually an interspace where there is no adequate control of food in tourist facilities. Such a situation favours only the import lobby but therefore inflicts enormous damage to agriculture, more specific livestock and tourism, which, apart from the beautiful sea and good roads, we should also offer healthy domestic food. Namely, the data I used to prepare this question are data that I received from the Baby bif association, which has its headquarters in the town of Bjelovar and those in this data warn that more fresh beef has been imported into Croatia in the last five months than in the past five years. If so, according to their data, and there is another information that is also very serious to consume about 800 tonnes of imported beef with an expiry date. This meat was to be processed under existing laws, not on the tables of people of our citizens or tourists. I ask you, Mr. Vice President, first to answer the question in which I ask why the laws are being broken. Then I suggest you also receive representatives of this association who will certainly provide you with additional information and information that will probably allow you better control in that portfolio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39201	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for asking. Let me put in a few words a chronology of events related to these allegedly controversial imports and shipments. Therefore, imports of meat, bovine animals from Brazil and Poland were made on the basis of a solution from the competent ministry which was issued on the basis of the request of a potential importer and only after it was found that the potential importer and in this case, the meat industry "Pivac" therefore meets all the prescribed conditions. The consignments which arrived at the border crossing on the basis of that solution were accompanied by a prescribed international veterinary certificate issued by the competent veterinary inspector of the exporting country confirming compliance with the criteria of health regularity of the consignment imported with the requirements of the resolution of the ministry. At the border crossing, the veterinary health check was also carried out and sampling and samples were sent to competent and therefore certified laboratories for further examination. During the period until we had no solutions to those laboratories, meat could not be transported, so it stood in a special space of importers. After the solutions or findings of certified laboratories have arrived and after the health correctness has been confirmed, meat has been placed on the market. As far as quality control is concerned, the State Inspectorate is in charge of the Quality Control Regulation. I would like to make a clear note here that the regulation on the quality of meat has been taken over from the SFRJ legislation in 1991 and that it definitely needs to be modified. In our Regulation on the transport of fresh and chilled meat, it is not fully in line with the European Union rules and only in this segment, which provides for a period of sustainability for those meat types, meat categories, for 15 days until there are no restrictions in the European Union related to the period of time. On the basis of the report of certified laboratories, it was precisely because we had a certificate of health and meat quality that the relevant ministry decided not to release those consignments of meat into retail sales but that meat could be exclusively used for further production or processing purposes. The Ministry of Health issued the basis of Article 15. Food law can be sold directly to customers in the hotel or tourist segment under special conditions. During this morning, I asked the State Inspectorate for a report on imported meat users, and I expect a report this week. As soon as I get that report, I will be able to inform you in writing and receive both you and the Baby Biff Association for further discussions and clarifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39203	Thank you. Deputy Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So it is clear that we have non-compliant regulations and laws to be amended. This is a good diagnosis, and now it should only be a time limit for these measures to be applied but of course we are also interested in the entire public where 800 tonnes of imported meat could have ended, on which plates they are on. And I thank you for your reception because I believe it will be useful to you as a new member of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39205	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39206	Thank you very much. My question again concerns the credibility of the Prime Minister. Answering Mr. Cain's question about the rise in the price of gasoline you've respected the prime minister recently told him when the time comes the government will intervene. By doing so again, you refuse to fulfill what you have promised publicly. In fact, I remind you that on April 2nd, you promised the public that the government would intervene when the price of gasoline crossed the eight kuna line to prevent the negative consequences of the intervention on citizens' standards. The condition is fulfilled. Last Monday, INA announced new prices at which lead Super 98 in retail stands 8 kuna and 13 limes. Instead of fulfilling your promise, you are pushing the fulfillment back into an unfathomable future and saying "When the time comes". You don't have to wait for a good time for a man to keep his promises. I ask you when will you finally accept this simple fact? When will you finally accept that simple fact? [[I didn't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39207	Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39208	So I could answer you politically that I will accept every fact that you prove it. But since you haven't proven anything yet, then I can't accept it. So I'm staying with my answer that we'll intervene when the price of unleaded gasoline is 8 kuna. You probably associate with someone else and, and here you should say that in Croatia as well as everywhere in the world we all go towards unleaded gasoline. If it's a word here, then we'll do an analysis. See how many categories of people still use lead gasoline, so we'll react there.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39209	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39210	I'm not happy with the answer, but it's easy that I'm not happy with the answer. I don't think your answer will even be satisfied with the citizens who buy that gas. Every day. So they're also buying that lead super 98 that's already crossed the 8 kuna line. But I think it would be good for them to show up again to cry with Pinocchio and his nose. Only in this case, that nose should be a little longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39211	Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39212	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, the other members of the government. I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Sir, Madam Minister, I ask you to brief us on the state of judicial reform especially in the part of the regulation of land books whose sloppy management, mismanagement was the reason for many court proceedings, as well as the initiation of the avalanche of media inscriptions, I would say freely and be the brakes of the economic development of our country of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39213	Justice Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39214	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, here is the briefness of the 9th month of an accelerated reform of the state of affairs in the land books. I'll just keep you posted on some of the steps we've taken in that sense. The entry into electronic form of hand-run land-based books into electronic form of all 96 courts has been initiated, and the translation into electronic form is an assumption of speedy decision-making and judicial decisions in the land-booking process, which is, of course, the assumption of publication of land-book data on the websites. The data verification process for 17 land and book courts has been initiated. They were published as you know land-booked data on websites that contributed to the availability of data to the general public and that citizens and all interested parties could make an insight into the land-book situation without going to courts, and for illustration in a month there were 3 million entries on the land-book website. Material and technical assumptions have also been created for the introduction of land-book systems, information equipment has been obtained for land-book departments. Adequate education is also being conducted, including information and legal education for grantovnica leaders. The procedures for the establishment and renewal of land books are being carried out, and in the procedures for the establishment and renewal of the land book and the catastros, the land and the cadastrian state is being coordinated, which of course contributes to the legal security of the traffic of real estate and for the time being, the procedures for the establishment of land books are being carried out in 20 courts. The procedure for determining the reasons for making it difficult to enter real estate in land registers and to establish case law in the application of the Law on Land Books has been initiated. Regular and extraordinary controls on the work of land-booking departments have also been carried out and hastening measures have been introduced to determine the effectiveness of working with the parties and to increase the working discipline of employees in land-booking departments. Self-referencing country-books were brought in, leading to the dispensation of judges in the work on land-book cases, as well as the speedy work on judicial decisions proposed by the parties. We still have some 258 land-book backlogs left, and over 5 months, 60 thousand have been reduced. So things are going well, and so far, we're working on creating an assumption that public notebooks can also publish land-book statements. The assumption is that they are connected computerically to grants and will no longer happen to convince the notebooks of some purchase contract, I don't know, country and that because there is no possibility of an immediate entry in land books, such a country is reselling several more times. So we'll prevent that kind of malfeasance from happening this way. Here's the short one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39215	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39216	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I am pleased with the answer, with the desire to move forward with the implementation of the judicial reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39217	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39218	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government. I'd like to ask our prime minister a question. I guarantee Croatia tax cuts. We will cut taxes and thus strengthen entrepreneurship, agriculture and domestic production. Unlike others, we will remove bureaucratic obstacles and provide equal conditions for all. Economic growth. We're going to invest in science and technology, encourage exports and introduce order into state finances. Unlike others, we will not take Croatia into bankruptcy. Employment growth. We will increase employment through strong economic programmes. Unlike others, we young people will not be taken to the future without hope. Standard growth. We will increase the standard of better care for families and pensioners, more investment in education and health care and respect for Croatian defenders. Unlike others, we will restore dignity to Croatia. Signed by Dr. Ivo Sanader. I don't know, Mr. Prime Minister, if you remember, it's so-called. the guarantee card that you personally signed and on which this government today received most of the voters' votes. By all accounts Let me talk. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Not only are these promises not fulfilled but it is simply not seen that the government... /The speaker has been excluded./... the problems solve or is the situation really as hopeless as it seems from this perspective?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39219	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39220	Mr. Representative, on that program, you entered the Croatian Parliament. And this programme will, and this programme will be implemented by this government with or without you to the satisfaction of Croatian citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39221	My question, Mr. Prime Minister, was not provocative at all, but I asked him just to calm my conscience. Because I'm aware that on your behalf, I've shared these security cards in cities and municipalities. It's just that even though I've distanced myself from this government's policy and still before I go to sleep, I imagine many times what I've shared, and what promises have we made together? I believe you because I trusted you. I hope that you will do anything by the end of this term to make my conscience easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39222	Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39223	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I will refer the question to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Branko Vukelic. In the last century, the last hydropower plant was built in Croatia in the 1980s. So far, only about 45% of that potential has been engaged to produce electricity from hydrotechnical potentials and the possibilities of our water streams, and in the coming time, even slightly less, about 40% can be used. It is known that the production of electricity from, from the use of water streams is the safest and most stable and economically fair in the long term. My question is to Mr. Secretary. What will the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship do to encourage Croatia's electricity industry or other investors because it does not have to be Croatia's electricity industry, to launch a process to build hydropower plants in the Republic of Croatia in the coming time?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39224	Dear Minister Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39225	... Another area I would say is the energy and energy future of Croatia, which is very important and important, given that we know daily, and we are increasing the consumption of all energy and electricity. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] And it's also exactly what you said about energy participation, electricity from hydropower plants in this percentage, and we'd all like it to be far bigger and more since it's about a long-term really profitable and best source of electricity, an acceptable eco-renewable energy source is about, water. However, for the sake of accuracy, it is also necessary to say that we let the last hydropower plants drive in 89 and 90, respectively. These were the Djale hydropower plants and the Dubrava hydropower plants, and what I can say is, this is what the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship has just given energy consent this year for the construction of the Lesce hydropower plant, 40 megawatts, and it's starting this year in construction. The scheduled completion of the work is 2008. Also, Croatia's electricity industry has two completed projects for two hydropower plants that are designed to build in this future development. It is the hydropower plant Subsidized and the hydropower plant Dranje on the river Savi with the costs of building these hydropower plants being quite large. There is also an agreement with the City of Zagreb, with Zagreb County and with most likely Croatian waters. So the construction of the hydropower plant isn't cheap, it's not simple. Lately, we know that the problem is often the biggest and as far as the Environmental Protection Association or the local community's inhabitants are concerned. I'm going to mention the greatest potential for the hydropower plant, and we have practical projections for this project. There is a Novo Virje hydropower plant on Drava, but there is a problem and difficulties with the Hungarian side and their opposition precisely because of the impact and for environmental protection, therefore for the construction of the hydropower plant. Therefore, plans exist, Croatia's electricity industry has plans to build hydropower plants, as well as plans to build thermal power plants. It is very important not only because of the provision of sufficient electricity sources for our economies and consumers who are growing from year to year, consumption is increasing. So, new sources need to be provided, but the next thing you know is very important. We know that by releasing a transformer station Ernestinovo Croatia has received one important role in the central and Western European electricity distribution system with Southeast Europe and precisely because of the stability of this system Croatia's electricity industry has to play a significant role in the coming years and there will be very large investments in the construction of the hydro power plant and in the construction of the thermal power plant in order to simply meet the security needs of this system, but also the needs, the growing needs and economies and all of us electricity consumers in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39226	Dear Representative Marko Širac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39227	Mr. Minister, I've only asked that question for the next one. Between the 1980s and 1990s in Croatia, strong funds have been invested in the construction of the Kosovo Four thermal power plants, Obrenovac six, Tuzla, Kakanj etc. Therefore, these energy facilities are practically inaccessible to us and we will only be able to use them when it is settled in interstate contracts, while our natural potentials remain unused within the borders of the Republic of Croatia. And for this reason, I am pleased for the truth both as a citizen and as a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community, that our ministry and public enterprises are having such a orientation that further investment in electricity production is directed independently from one, second or third or fourth source in the direction that you have explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39228	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39229	I would like to thank Mr. President, Croatian Prime Minister, Mr. Minister and Minister. I'm asking the question of the Minister of Culture, Mr. Bishop. Master plan of the Split-Dalmatia Tourist Board abandoned villages in Dalmatia Zagorje are the backbones of rural tourism development. Along the river Cetina, the Peru Lake, the Dinara and Svilaj mountains, all the way to Biokova, Mosor and Kozjak, there are ambience Dalmatian stone houses, houses that carry them to the builder, houses that are built according to the man. This treasure is at risk today. Unfortunately, the real value of these houses was first recognized by the various merchants of a valuable stone that destroys these houses and sells stone on the coast and on the islands. They take big money for themselves, and future generations deny knowing how old ours lived. I am interested in what the Government, or your ministry, intends to do to protect these old stone houses that are of historical and cultural value to all of us, both this end and the Croatian state, and as we see the tourist community on them is the development of rural tourism. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I ask you to take this request as an appeal for the salvation of these values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39230	Thank you. Minister of Culture Bozo Biskupić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39231	Well, here's Mr. President, Your Honor. The Ministry of Culture takes care of all kinds of cultural heritage, especially when it comes to monuments of culture in stone, especially those of very valuable value, such as buildings in stone, Diocletian's Palace, St. Jacob in Sibenik, St. Donat in Zadar and not to list the big and significant monuments now. But also taking care of rural heritage so that 50% of the registered cultural heritage in Croatia actually makes rural cultural heritage out of it 80% of the registered monuments of rural culture are actually heritage built in stone. When it comes to this problem that you mentioned, there are fine examples. The culture ministry of the registered part is an example near Primosten, Primosten Gornji oli Primosten Burni I think Jurlinina's court is an entire complex that the Ministry of Culture has been helping and editing for years. But I think the solution to this whole problem isn't just the Ministry of Culture, that on one side is a solution in the local community, the solution is in the Ministry of Environment and Construction, the Ministry of Tourism, because this stone heritage in the back of the Adriatic coast, the Central Adriatic. Because we see an example in Istria, a very good example in Istria, I mean in which way it was quite well used. I mean, the solution is, these are future oasis of peace for tourists who will be on the coast. They're very valuable and valuable attitudes. In fact, with the help of the Ministry of Culture, he recommended that we actually preserve that cultural heritage, its restoration, not the sale of this, as you mentioned. It is not necessary to allow, in the first place, to develop consciousness in the owner of such a monument, or such a building, that it is not sold by the Buddha why today, because it will be far more valuable in the future. And in our care, what is registered, the Ministry of Culture will, of course, help and restore and preserve in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39232	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39233	Thank you, Mr. Minister. This question was actually updated by TV show "Deleted Space", and I also put it on behalf of the employees of the Split-Dalmatia County Tourist Board and I express my satisfaction with your answer, and also on their behalf. And I expect from you, as lovers of the ambience of Dalmatian architecture, to find a way to preserve this unique cultural and historical value. But also to enrich our country's tourist offer for the benefit of the people of Dalmatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39234	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39235	This issue is directed towards the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. In the last two months, long-term cover-ups have been discovered in the House of Unsupervised Children in Brezovica, as well as certain new details of child abuse in the home, as well as of volunteers convicted of pedophilia working with those children. In these two months, everyone has reacted from the prosecutor for the children who reported this to this House a month ago, the police, the state's attorney, all of you as a resolute ministry. In 2003, first surveillance was made during the former government, very unprofessionally as in 2005 when you in your ministry found that everything was fine in Brezovica, that there was no abuse because neither the former ministry nor this in terms of supervision was involved in children but in mere formalities. My question is, do you mean as a resolute ministry to do something to ensure, not only in Brezovica, but in all homes, supervision by professionals, not ministry officials. Likewise, control controls that are very rare to prevent future child abuse in homes. And do you mean to put under control and volunteers in all of Karitas' homes?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39236	Thank you. State Secretary Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39237	Your Honor, Mrs. Opacic. It's not true we didn't react. We're working together on this case of Bezovica. As you know, it happened in 2003. So, at this point, this ministry is working with all those who need to be co-operated with, which is the State's Attorney's Office, the Ministry of the Interior and Ms. Advocate for Children. However, I think for the first time I can say that we work very closely together and react without delay to everything we need to do. As far as your inspection surveillance issue is concerned, because you know that homes have inspection controls, unlike social care centres that have administrative oversights, which include expert supervision. So inspection of homes, it can really be said that here is control not that it was not good but it is insufficient because it cannot be controlled more often. However, I must admit that by this year at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, therefore, no inspection unit has been organized at all in the previous Ministry of Labour and Social Care. Therefore, it is only now organized. We still lack employees and therefore, if something does not change in our rules and laws, you well know that inspection supervision can be carried out by persons who are civil servants with special powers. As for the children's studies, I must stress that we have no right to question children under any law in such a way as to possibly come up with any knowledge. Therefore, it is within the jurisdiction of the state's attorney's office. While this is the case, according to the existing laws of the Republic of Croatia, we cannot behave differently. And to strengthen the inspection, it's clear to all of us. Therefore, we will push for that line of employment that was banned within the ministries and even when the government passed, to simply leave out certain ministries and ours as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39238	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39239	Well, look, Madam Secretary of State. I would have been pleased with your answer if you had told me that you would encourage in the government a change in these laws. Because I think it's scandalous to keep this up and continue with the problems of the children the state cares about, so you're at the moment when the children are taken care of in their home and mother and father. You're in charge of taking care of them, and we can't say that because of some law, it should still be done by the clerks in this way that they've worked so far, and that's that they don't care about children at all, but they're dealing with whether the statute is like this or not. So, I'd like to hear from you here that you're going to encourage and initiate some amendments to some laws and you've stayed in my debt to answer about volunteers. This is scandalous, volunteers who are convicted of pedophile, drug addicts and simply people who do not have any permission to stay in Croatia because most of them came from Austria. Volunteers work with children in homes, Mrs Nikolic, for which the state of Croatia controls. So that's what you need to worry about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39240	Thank you. And the last question. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39241	I thank you very much, Mr. President. I am taking this opportunity to welcome all members of the government to the head of the government, Mr. Ivo Sanader, whom I would like to address my question. Namely, Mr. President, I am a member of the Parliamentary Committee on European Integration and I am a member of our delegation to the Council of Europe and I must say that here is, above all, one small commendation to the President of the Parliament and to the chairman of the Committee on this very broad activity, the international activity of our Parliament. I must also say that there is a correct atmosphere in these meetings because we do not share in the position and opposition but are really protecting our country's interests in the best way possible. But I have to say, I've been in a few meetings in a bit of an awkward situation. I was asked one very banal question, and one of them was the use of the European Union flag. They asked me simply how that flag is winding up in the buildings of state bodies, state institutions and in many other places, who approved it since we are not yet members, clearly, or a member of the European Union. Of course, in every rule of law, we know well that this issue is well solved, very detailedly solved through the Law that regulates the use of flags, anthems, coat of arms, etc. Therefore, I now ask you to know the second time that they ask me that same question to answer what is the official position of the Government on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39242	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39243	Mr. Representative, the answer is very simple. The candidate countries, following the European Commission's decision and following a request from our European Commission after obtaining candidate status, have received a very affirmative response, a very unequivocal response that candidate countries have the right to point out countries, the flag of the European Union. So, as Romania does, as Bulgaria does, as Slovenia did before entering the Union on 1 May last year or 10 countries that entered, nothing more and nothing less will we. So on an explicit question, we got a positive answer, and that's the whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39244	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39245	Here, I thank you for that answer. Apparently my associates didn't know about that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39246	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the current morning is over. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 15 hours with the agenda as determined. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. It's on the agenda. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol with regard to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia, of the one part, and the European Communities and their Member States, of the other part, to take into account the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic of the European Union, with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, the P.Z. No. 307. The promoter is the Government. It's an emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the proposal to Mrs. Marija Buric-Pejcinovic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, to give one part of the preliminary report, and the other part will be given by Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39248	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this Act is, therefore, the Act confirming the Protocol with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia of the one part, and the European Communities and their Member States, of the other part, in the provision of Article 139. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. As is known, trade relations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community have been governed by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States, and this Agreement entered into force on 1 February this year. The trade arrangements of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement required last year to respect the fact that the European Union has extended to 10 new members since 1 May 2004. In fact, of the 10 accession countries, the Republic of Croatia had already agreed free trade agreements with 6 of them. Those countries, as the practice of accession agreements, are in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty of Accession of the European Union which have been signed have withdrawn from their trade agreements with the Republic of Croatia and have, following their accession to the European Union, been governed by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The legal basis, since this was imputable last year, is set out in Article 36 of the Protocol. The Stabilisation and Association Agreements, and I will only read the relevant provisions of that Article. Therefore, "the customs unions of free trade and cross-border arrangements shall not exclude the preservation or establishment of customs unions, free trade areas or border traffic arrangements unless they amend the trade arrangements provided for in this Agreement. In the framework of the Stabilisation and Association Council, consultations will be held with the Parties in connection with the Agreement described in paragraph 1 of this Article and when requested in relation to other relevant issues relating to their trade policies towards third countries." Since the Agreement did not enter into force at the time this was discussed, it was not in force and, accordingly, neither was the Stabilisation and Association Council established, it was not possible to apply this paragraph. Therefore, the negotiations on the Protocol were conducted directly between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, and not within the framework of consultations within the provisional committee, as the provisional committee was not authorised to decide on any issues which were the subject of the negotiations, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Agreement on Trade and Related Issues between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. Therefore, a new legal framework was negotiated which was not regulated by the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The conclusion of the Protocol took note of the fact that the enlargement of the European Union to 10 new Member States, as of 1 May 2004, has led to the adaptation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in order to adequately regulate the trade relations of the Republic of Croatia with the enlarged European Union, i.e. the European Community and the 25 Member States. The subject of the negotiations were therefore existing trade concessions and trade flows for agricultural, food and fishery products established in bilateral free trade agreements between the Republic of Croatia and certain new members of the European Union. After 4 rounds of negotiations and 2 rounds of technical consultations, negotiations and the initialed Protocol were concluded in Brussels on 16 April 2004. The protocol was signed in Brussels on 21 December 2004, signed by the Croatian Minister of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy, Mr Cobankovic, and on behalf of the European Union and the Member States by the Dutch Minister of Agriculture, Industry and Food Mr Ferman and Commissioner for Enlargement Mr Olli Rehn. In fact, it is exposed to a legal framework that is based on negotiations on an additional Protocol on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and on basic issues, therefore, the content of the contract itself will be told by Minister Cobankovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39249	Thank you very much. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, let me introduce you in the shortest lines to the results of the negotiations on the additional Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So-called Protocol 7. I would like to emphasise, not repeating what the State Secretary has already said, that an additional agreement was made for the reasons of the enlargement of the European Union with 10 new members. That, with 6 members, we had free trade agreements and that, as part of this, when the talks started, the initial requirements of the European Commission consisted of practically collecting existing quotas that were established under free trade contracts. For us, this was not an acceptable basis for negotiations for a simple reason because the quotas set out in free trade agreements with certain accession countries were not fully used. For these reasons, our platform was that the basis for the talks was achieved to the extent of preferential trade. So what happens within certain free trade contracts, which happened in the trade. And accordingly, through the 4 rounds of negotiations, we managed to bring these negotiations to an end in a way that would make them acceptable to the Republic of Croatia, to be acceptable to Croatian farmers and the food industry. On the course of negotiations and in the course of negotiations, we had exhaustive consultations with representatives of both farmers and representatives of the food industry. We met them, we asked them for certain opinions about certain additional quotas, which would not endanger, to say Croatian agriculture and the food industry. And maybe I should finally say before I go to actual numbers, say one very important thing. This additional agreement covers a trade volume of cca something below $100 million. So, the issue of trade between Croatia is not about the problem of the additional Protocol, but only is the problem that we have to solve within our country. And the only way to solve and repair the external trade balance is to increase our own production. The fact is that Croatia does not satisfy its own self-sufficiency in the largest number of agricultural and food products. And that is what the basic task of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy is in the coming period, restructuring our production, increasing our production, and mainly in those products where we do not satisfy our own self-sufficiency. Allow me a few more words to say about the outcome of the negotiations. The result of the negotiations is that there has been no change in 21 product groups despite the initial requirements of the European Commission and additional quotas under this Protocol 7. In 61 the product group is nowhere above the volume of the current trade in goods with the accession countries, and the initial requirements that have been made by the European Commission have been significantly reduced. I would list here some products where there was no change from those 21 groups, so among other things frozen beef where a 400-tonne increase was required, there was no change, no milk fermentation without the addition of fruit required 900 tonnes, there was no change. The additional protocol did not achieve increased concessions. Fowls of fresh or chilled vegetables, vegetables temporarily preserved, dried pods, coffee, barley, brewing teeth,... in shellfish, and ground potatoes, olive oil, where an example is sought for additional concessions of 500 tonnes, sunflower seed oil where 2000 tonnes are sought, additional sugar quota for 6 thousand tonnes, glucose and glucose syrup with a fructose content of up to 20% required, and not to count further. So there were no additional concessions in the 21st group. As for this part where the increase occurred, I will present some examples, take live cattle, the initial request of the European Commission was an additional quota of 16 thousand tonnes, we negotiated 9,000 tonnes, then fresh or chilled beef where the request and 500 tonnes were negotiated, 200 tonnes of milk, unconcentrated milk and unsatisfactory, where on the basis of quotas that were incorporated into free trade contracts, the quota required from 80,000 tonnes and 0 tariffs, 13 thousand 500 tonnes were negotiated with 0 customs and 12,600 tonnes with a change of 4.2 euros per 100 kg. Then, milk fermentations with fruit added, required quota increase of 2900 tonnes, negotiated 150 tonnes, butter 420 tonnes, negotiated 80 tonnes, milk spreads 60 tonnes fixed quota of an additional 12 tonnes. Honey, a quota of 320 tonnes, negotiated 20 tonnes, apples, an example of apples where a quota of 12 thousand tonnes was requested, which was incorporated into the Free Trade Agreement with Slovenia, negotiated 5800 tonnes, take a further example, the malt required increase of 2880 tonnes negotiated 1000 tonnes, soy oil sought 5750 tonnes, negotiated 980 tonnes. Sugar products should be taken, required quota increase of 700 tonnes, negotiated 500 tonnes, chocolate required additional quota of 1120 tonnes, negotiated 450 tonnes, preserved tomatoes required quota of 5430 tonnes, negotiated 150 tonnes, jams, marmalade 600 tonnes determined 130, apple juice and a mixture of juice quotas additional, which was initially 1400 tonnes, negotiated 200 tonnes. Ice creams where an increase in the quota is required from 1760 tonnes, negotiated 450 tonnes, I don't know any soda and non-alcoholic drinks 900 tonnes, negotiated 5500 tonnes. Here, these are some indicators that say how in some ways those negotiations have managed to reduce those initial quotas that were the technical sum of existing quotas from previous contracts to how much they have managed to reduce. At the same time, Croatia has symmetry under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement agreement with the European Union, except for all agricultural-food products except without quotas and without customs protection, except for three groups of products, that is wine, that is fish and young June Baby beef. For two groups, this is about wine and fish, we have managed to increase the quota so far, in the case of wine by 2800 tonnes, and in the case of fish it is an increase of 1650 tonnes. I stand on the point that through the negotiations we have managed to protect the interest of Croatian agriculture, to protect the interest of the food industry, which can ultimately be shown by exact figures. So, among other things, when we look at trade with the EU 25 in this year for the first four months, exports of Croatian products to EU countries increased by 54% or a better index compared to 2004, in 2005, 154.4%. At the same time, imports of agricultural food products from the European Union increased by only 7.5%. Here, as Minister of Agriculture, I can say that when Croatia settles its livestock situation, when it increases the number of cattle and increases meat production, we have managed to increase the production by 15% in this year and this is already reflected by the reduction of milk imports. When Croatia solves its problem in livestock, I say responsibly, and I expect that by the end of this year and the following year we will have a significantly better situation in livestock farming, that Croatia will create assumptions that it significantly reduces imports of agricultural and food products on the one hand, while at the same time increasing exports. Or, generally, by the first 4 months, the increase in agricultural-food exports is 25% or better said the index is 125, while imports have increased by 6%. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39251	Please, nice. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39252	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think it's decadent, but here I am correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect allegations. Otherwise, we had a contract with the EU where quotas were decided. The free trade agreement by joining the new Protocol is simply no longer valid, and we have not been reducing quotas but have increased quotas and should say 15 plus 10 that the quotas have been increased rather than reduced. And this condescending address that you've gotten a little more through the negotiations, you've got less than what they actually are, you're less than they are, you've actually made less arrangements than they've asked for but more than we've had, and the public needs to know that. And that you're honest you should say more about how much the expansion of these ten with this protocol and this agreement has expanded and that's an important thing, and the public expects you not that you're better negotiators than they should have been. You shouldn't have agreed to anything, then it would have been the right thing to do. And this is for me not telling the truth to the end and not telling the public the way the public should hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39253	Okay. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State! Well, I don't know, I think I'm talking about this agreement today, and I'm really thinking about this protocol. I think all of us here together who are dear colleagues and colleagues should know what we're talking about here today. If this were about confirming some other protocol of a state contract, I wouldn't mind, maybe it's normal to confirm it that way, but we here today confirm Protocol VII. And I would remind those who forgot about something we discussed here a year and two months ago, I would say very sharply but then on time. Today I'm afraid it's almost unnecessary to argue. We can only determine the consequences. To remind you what it was then was in some way almost five to twelve, it was set "day D" on May 1st until when it had to be done, we were all forced in some way and we didn't want to listen to the consequences of all this. At the end of the day it happened quite the other way around, we only got the consequences and all of our victims and almost the victim of agriculture almost can say yes for nothing because it is happening that we will still look long to wait for the negotiations with the European Union to open. But not to go into this part now and not to talk about what we've been through here today, and there's nothing we can do about it. Just to remind you, the fact that this agreement has already started to apply on 1 May and with these concessions towards the EU 25 and we could not apply until 10, 11 months, with the exception that there are no people in Brussels who would translate it into languages, so that it would start to apply where our fishing industry that only comes directly has received certain concessions. I have to say that by listening very carefully to what the secretary of state said, I'd go again if I didn't talk about this past, I'm just going to talk about it a little bit, about what's ahead. If I understand you correctly, you said that then the interpretation we then launched was not justified, although I must tell you that the Constitutional Court has not yet made its case. So let's wait until the Constitutional Court and we'll all be smarter together, and we'll have the right word for it. But you said it wasn't because the Stabilisation and Association Agreement didn't take effect because it entered into force on February 1st, this year it entered into force. Now after that, I want to do maybe a step forward and it's about this and maybe I'll just remind you of the current events today from the current clock. Since it is possible that the same thing is happening to us again, that the foreign minister writes to his colleague and reports that the Government of the Republic of Croatia authorised the Ministry of Agriculture to start negotiations with the European Commission on possible amendments to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the members of the European Community on 2 June 2005. If this is true and you have confirmed it yourself before, it means that it is no longer a dispute in the Government whether the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is implemented between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, so it is no longer a doubt, it is no longer a doubt like it was a year and a few days ago. Then the Government of the Republic of Croatia could not make a decision, the Ministry cannot open negotiations because it is contrary to the law, contrary to Article 3 of the Treaty, which is that the position of the Republic of Croatia’s representatives in the Stabilisation and Association Council and the Interim Committee are represented by the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a proposal for a position being drawn up by the body of the state administration in which the decision is taken by the Stabilisation and Association Council and by the Interim Committee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. When making the decision referred to in Article 3 of this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit a proposal for a decision as well as a proposal for a position to the Croatian Parliament to draw conclusions. So, definitely the Croatian Parliament before all these procedures was supposed to get here a proposal for conclusions and now I hope all of us here together to discuss the important issue that we started today here somehow different from the current hour of debate and that is too important. The importance of how much I have been able to hear today is also emphasized by the minister. There are few products Croatia can place on the European market. One of these products is sugar. We've been able to make it, and I need to introduce you to that. 40 tonnes was exports in 1990 to get unlimited exports and raise it by almost a thousand times and receive 100m euros in exports only through the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. 100m euros per 100% Croatian product. Why is something trying to make me say one big export chance to destroy it? Because I'm afraid, if it's a stake for something that we won't turn out to be with this role of this Protocol VII. Unfortunately, after a year and a few days, we'll all discuss that we agreed to something and we got nothing. And with regard to those concessions that we had with the EU 15, everything is open except for four products. Unfortunately, all other countries that have also negotiated third countries have gone to negotiations because they did not have such a good Stabilisation and Association Agreement as we have and were aimed at it. And we weren't looking for Prokola VII. For he brought only the other ones, primarily those lands ten new, and brought us almost nothing, nothing. Legally, we were right. We were under pressure, we had to agree to that. Concession none today still. We need to get across the halls of the European Union I'd say walk with our heads down, wait for something special to happen. Unfortunately, nothing will happen. I think that all of us sitting here together in the Parliament should figure out what time it is, protecting the economic interests of Croatia, not only would I say go over this and definitely confirm this protocol as if nothing had happened and unfortunately about the economic damage we will suffer for a long and long time. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39255	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39256	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! For ten new members of the European Union, the European Union has grown and it is clear that now those countries, one Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, etc. I need to be involved in this agreement and to be honest with you, I don't see any particular problem when this agreement is related, it's more a matter of technique. But the point is something else. As our quotas have been negotiated, even though it may not be a key issue either, but what is essential is that Croatian exports are at this point and it is increasing something fortunately only $8 billion and imports on the other hand $16 billion. And that's just the point in my court. So why is the Croatian foreign deficit greater than 50%? And the third perhaps most intriguing question is how do we say one small Slovakia, a country the size of the Republic of Croatia, a country we always looked at with high exports of over $28.7 billion. Her exports were so much in 2004, and Croatia was only $8 billion. I repeat, Slovakia is exporting $20 billion more than the Republic of Croatia. Slovakia imports 29.5 billion dollars, and Croatia only 16 billion dollars, which will say that one small Slovakia 5 and a half million inhabitants have, we have 4.3 million inhabitants have 2 and a half times a better trade than the Republic of Croatia. I purposely mention Slovakia because it is the country of Eastern Europe, Europe, former Eastern Europe. The country as I said we looked high at because our claim has no limit, but I also said it was a country with 5 and a half million inhabitants, so we are very similar to each other, but also a country that has 12 and a half thousand dollars per capital, which will say three and a half thousand dollars per capitals more than the Republic of Croatia. The truth is, Slovakia didn't have a war. That Croatian tourism does not count as exports but it is also questionable. If we know that from tourism, one Hungary is making incomparably more traffic than the Republic of Croatia. Even one Czech Republic has more tourist income than Croatia. And finally in order for Croatia to reach Slovakia's gross social product, this year it will take us at least 5 years. So we're going to have to work for five years to reach Slovakia this year. And where this Slovakia is going to be, I don't know. As far as this protocol is concerned, I'd say he's some kind of compromise. It's always clear in the opposition that it's thought that it could tear itself up better. The government, on the other hand, assures us that it has acted maximumly in the spirit of Croatian interest, but for us, as I said in IDS, it is not only the quota that is crucial. The point is why do we have such a modest export? Why do we have such modest production and why are we so economically underdeveloped and sometimes politically arrogant? I agree that Croatia is not England to be able to blackmail the European Union even though the association is very shaken after the French "no" to their Constitution and the English "no" budget, however, as much as the European Union is grogged, it is still not on the floor. And she, as an economic association, will surely and in the future exist, and as political regrets, she loses more and more to her prestige day after day. Why did Eastern Europe jump so far from the Republic of Croatia? I could have chosen any other country, not Slovakia. Well, first of all, because of the fact that they didn't have a war. It is a Croatian incredible handicap and clear because of foreign investments. And these foreign investments except for our banks, in our banks, the relevant foreign investments de facto did not exist. Here, among other things, Mr Pankretic was talking about Protocol 7. He said that in fact this Protocol was de facto a confirmation of Protocol 7. I would dare say that the great tragedy of Croatian politics or it is seen in political undisciplinedness. One policy is advocated while it is in opposition, and another when it comes to power. A citizen doesn't know what he chooses with one word, but they can be sure and they can know that those he voted for if they came to power to lead a diametrically opposite policy compared to the one they ran while they were in opposition. That's how it is when Protocol 7 is in progress or this Protocol. When The Hague, when the IMF is, when it's an external debt and such a policy unfortunately, gentlemen don't lead anywhere. One word only leads us to a permanent argument. When agriculture is due, I'd say we're all trying to copy parties in the West, but that's not working. Croatia is in many special places when agriculture is compared to and in some ways these protocols and 7 and this one are actually opportunities for our great sobering. I said it is not already a problem for Croatia of these import quotas but the real problem of Croatia at the moment is that we cannot even respect the export quotas. Or that our agricultural products, along with all the customs burdens of products from the European Union, are by no means competitive on the domestic market. And what's he saying? That Croatian agriculture with an average agricultural area of 2.8 hectares simply cannot be competitive to anyone. Croatian agriculture without land reform will not be competitive. Our farmers are becoming more and more social cases, cases, more and more nursing households who mostly live as they lived 25 or 35 years ago, and all thanks to the fact that the state has not yet had the courage to take action and assign them a country. To whom can we gentlemen compete with a machine park 40 or 50 years old, with a fishing fleet over 55 years old on average, with only two or possibly three cultures? All of us also know what agricultural exchange is? For example, in February 2003, we exported $126.5 million of goods. We then imported $153.8 million. In February 2004, we exported only $97.5 million. We've imported $153.8 million. And they look forward to this data mentioned by the minister that exports to the EU increased by 54% in the first four months, i.e. that imports are going slower, that they have increased by only 7.5%. So at an annual level, we can say that in 2005, we will certainly introduce $2 billion in agricultural products. Last year, it seems to me to be about a billion and a half, cut by a billion dollars, and let's be happy if the import of food is $2 billion because I don't know, in a country of absurds like Croatia where even the Ministry of Culture has to give consent to the construction of pigs we can expect anything but one not, and that's to let people work. And while anything in Croatia can only be done not, we will import both milk and cheese and apples and wheat and corn and ice cream and even gentlemen import Croatian flags. As for the larger quotas for the export of wine or fish, it should certainly be welcomed, but neither will it be. As for the fish before, we had a quota that we could fill in in three days. Our fishing industry, and now we're going to fill the quota in 18 days of the fishing industry. So it's not much, but it's kind of looking forward to it. As for the wine after we've been banned from drinking, maybe that's what we're going to export, but it's also the fact that you won't get 30, 40 or 60 kuna for seven and a half kids anywhere. It means between EUR 4 and EUR 8 how much that wine costs in the Republic of Croatia. So we have to admit to ourselves that we are rude together, expensive, and yet on the other hand, nothing in this country is worth doing, and I said we are a country of absurdity where we are in a position to even import Croatian flags. We have previously had so-called quotas from the European Union to be added and so-called bilateral quotas completed for ten countries that have become full members of the European Union since 1.5.2004. I mean Hungary, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, etc. However, the same should be fair and acknowledge that the agricultural coup on the domestic market took place in 2002 after the Republic of Croatia signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement that Mr Pankretic praised just before. In that agreement, this sugar is simply an exception. Now the question arises whether Croatia was to sacrifice the European future for our agriculture, and in 2001, 2002. I say no. Should Croatia sacrifice a European future in 2005 because of agriculture. I also say that not even though I should be honest at this point, few of us know what the European Union is today. But since we know that Croatia's agriculture will suffer huge damages due to the European Union, which is on the other hand, whatever Croatia is inescapable, Croatia must not treat its agriculture as just an electoral base. The Croatian government, which is the most prominent thing in which it can bite any government if it wants to preserve agriculture, should simply go into this land reform. But the authorities that will go there may be in charge of the Croatian village on one hand, but I doubt the resistance that will take place on the ground will survive. But sooner or later, it's gonna have to be done. I'm not going to talk about that protocol seven, but I'm afraid we're too weak to increase exports. We can't clearly subsidize him. It is increasingly worth selling in Croatia, as far as our goods are concerned, rather than in the European Union. In one word, Croatian agriculture is certainly the most vulnerable Croatian activity. Tourism can still deal with such competition. Shipbuilding with huge guarantees from the state budget somewhat. Construction too, but agriculture has no chance, and the market simply cannot be closed. In my court, however, the Croatian village is far more of a problem with the ineffectiveness of Croatian authorities than our problems are foreigners. One word of life is that we have to arrange for ourselves, and we need to know that no one is simply going to help us. As far as IDS and this protocol are concerned, we will support it as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39257	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39258	Well, I don't know if Mr. Cain is in the heat of this exposure, but he said that a European perspective will be destroyed because of agriculture. Well, I don't think that's the case first, because if the European perspective isn't going to be destroyed because of agriculture, it just needs to be found the ratio in which agriculture, the economic interest of Croatia should be protected and, of course, the direction towards which European integration should go. However, do not go in one other direction that completely ignores agriculture rather than achieve this objective called European integration.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39259	Thank you. HNS club, PGS. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39260	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think this protocol, or this law, is the easy relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the important issues, which is how I will show, of course, in my presentation, but I will give another illustration before that. On 8 June this year, a declaration signed in Sofia was signed by our deputy, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Mr. Vrankovic, on the accession of the establishment of a free trade zone in the Western Balkans. So one very big thing. It is that bilateral agreements from CEF are replaced by multilateral agreements, but as the CEF soon leaves Bulgaria and Romania de facto, it is the establishment of a Western Balkan free trade zone within the Stability Pact, and that the Croatian Parliament has never discussed this, its bodies have not discussed it. We are, of course, bound by the signed agreements to multilateral organisations, etc., but this is one big step forward and it would be logical for the Croatian Parliament and its bodies or Croatian Government to report to the Croatian Parliament of course, so that these bodies or the Parliament discuss it. That didn't happen. An example of such an unserious and irresponsible relationship to important issues is this Protocol. The minister said that this protocol weighs 100 million euros or dollars, however, and continues our old practice that these big points of the agenda that have several lines and which are heavy tens or sometimes like this hundred million euros or dollars, we easily miss out as if it were issues that are so irrelevant, and of course we lose hours to determine whether a transcript is falsified or not, and hundreds of millions of dollars are actually what life means, and this document is the life that passes just like that. So we did not receive a report from the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament on this document. I don't know if the board discussed it. The Committee on European Integration, which should also have said something about this, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, and perhaps it could be practiced by the Committee on the Monitoring of Negotiations with the European Union. None of these bodies, and mainly the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament or not discussed it. What is certain is that we representatives are not on the bench before the debate begins, we have received a report from the board on such an important issue. So these are things that are absolutely inadmissible, and it's not about things that are understood by themselves. There are things in this protocol, of course, that have eyes. It is important to know, of course, that they are not easy negotiations with international institutions. It is a negotiation of already more or less within the plotted gauges and we have had a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we have had bilateral agreements with most of these ten countries, but of course it should be very critical to monitor what the Government is doing and to actually be corrective and pressured that it does these negotiations better than it would have done that there is no supervisory role and therefore there is no role of the Croatian Parliament at all. So let's say, in the addendum, one is saying that without customs imports from the European Union are increasing, unlimited by 120 or 136 products, and that we are not at all told what products they are. Only the customs codes of these products are listed, and this is about increasing the market for some 50 million or 60 million inhabitants. So that market will go towards our Croatian market, and we don't really know what products it's about if we're not going to read these codes that we've been given in Appendix one. It's a serious thing. Completely free, without customs imports, imports of goods into the Republic of Croatia are expanding by a dozen new countries. We didn't actually say a word about it. This implies that there is something in it that carries no danger. We're not even given a list of the 136 products that we're talking about. Appendix 2. Free tariff quotas, i.e. an increase in these duty-free quotas, old duty-free quotas, e.g. soy oil. The minister says it's wanted, and we've been negotiating. Well, that's not the relevant information they're looking for. The relevant information is as much as we had before and how much of that quota was increased. That's important. So it turns out that if they were looking for 2,000 tons for soy oil, and we were negotiating 980 tons, that's good because we negotiated more than half, less than they asked. But the minister doesn't say the previous quota was 220 tonnes. So we went from 220 tons to a thousand and 200 tons of soy oil. It's not a small thing, it's someone's got to explain. And even here, that's the whole technology. It is not possible to see a parliamentary representative who, for example, does not deal with what was before the EU quota, what was the quota of all bilateral agreements and which is the final quota agreed. That would be some kind of information that we could then follow more clearly whether we were successful or not. That's, say, the question of a new duty-free apple quota. Five thousand and 800 tons. It's not a small thing just hard to compare because we don't know, we don't have the data readable enough about how much it was before that. Fresh milk, these are more favourable customs quotas than they were before, 12 thousand and 600 tonnes. The increase, therefore, in what was before in relations with the European Union. So it's about very large amounts. We'd be good to see what's going on. Especially in the eyes of some things we know to have a domestic industry. In that sense, our combined industry is interesting, with 600 tons of candy per thousand and 100 tons. 500 tons of import quotas for candy, and we know that we have Crash, we know that we have Zveceva, we know that we have a candidate. Therefore, almost 50% and 100%, respectively, have been increased, and the production force of countries that have joined the European Union may have increased the total strength of the European Union by 10%. Something has happened, and that, of course, is what the foreign ministry's ministers or representatives should explain a little bit better. Chocolate with a thousand and 680 tons to 2 thousand 130 tons, over 30% is an increase. Chocolate. Again, the question is how could this affect the state of our combined industry that is very important to us. We don't have a lot of the agricultural processing industry anyway, so if this is how we're going to question it, then it's not the same. Equally over 40%, mineral water from 4 and 400 thousand tons to 16 and 200 tons. This means 4 times the quota of mineral water imports in the Republic of Croatia has been increased. It is probably the fruit of the bilateral agreements we have had, I suppose with the Republic of Slovenia or perhaps Hungary, but it should be specified precisely to see to what extent this agreement is favourable to the Republic of Croatia. Because if the Parliament doesn't do its job, then everything the government is negotiating will be fine. With this technology as the minister said they were looking, they can ask 700 times more than logically, but we'll stop at some relevant number and that's relevant. What is the final data, i.e. the previous quotas. And so on, non-alcoholic sodas from 10,000 tons to more than 16 thousand tons. So an increase of about 60%, etc. What's particularly worrying about this is what's going on with our exports. This is explained almost nothing about how much we are in which segments we have increased exports. Only two or three things are mentioned, mentioning an increase in wine from 45 to 73 hectolitres, which is of course to say hello. And mentioning the increase is mostly relevant is the increase of fish cans from 212 to a thousand 550 tonnes, which is of course large production. But you should know it's those goods, those products that give a big tonage, and actually, the amount isn't exactly hiding some big money. So even in that sense, this huge, huge increase in tone can be fooled. But in the section of the food industry, the processing industry has no data in which our segment has been increased, increased our export quota towards the European Union. And, of course, it would be good if we had that, too. So as representatives, those of interest could follow, and of course, it would be better to fill the interest of monitoring such important things as this Protocol have parliamentary bodies. And here I repeat again, I would like to emphasise that as representatives we did not get on the benches of the reports of any relevant board of the Croatian Parliament to which this should be dealt. And finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will not be against this because we know how difficult it was and that it was not easy for our negotiators. But it is an important issue, we warn that the Croatian Parliament must have a much more serious relationship with it than this. And we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will very much continue to monitor this process because I repeat, there is real life. This protocol weighs $100 million. And of course, the other documents that we will have with the European Union will also be very, very difficult in this financial, and that means also in terms of the perspective of our production and our better life. That is to say, better deployment within the European Union. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39261	Thank you very much, fellow representative. All I have to do is give one piece of information, that a report from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has just arrived on the bench, which my colleague obviously failed to see because it arrived during the debate. ... That's exactly what I said, fellow MP, that it came during your debate, so you couldn't see. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the SDP Club, colleague Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39262	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, my colleagues and colleagues. What now to speak and discuss, discuss confirming Protocol 7 at the moment when it is signed, at the moment when this subsequent debate cannot change its provisions? This seems quite useless work because the Assembly was practically brought into a situation that only later, only post-festum discussed this Protocol 7 and when we were unable to discuss it seriously at the moment when the debate could change something else. In the moment before the decision to proceed to the very negotiations on the conclusion of Protocol 7. The opposition parties tried to launch such a debate, a timely debate, sometime earlier last year. There was no understanding at that time by the Government, the idea was rejected at all that there was a legal justification that the Assembly was involved in the possibility of assessing whether or not it should be and what it should be, whether or not it should be negotiated and what the content of Protocol 7 should be. And finally, here today, from these opening statements, some things have become quite clear to me from the debate so far. It became clear that there was no legal need to enter into negotiations on this Protocol, that there was no economic need to enter these negotiations because anything that was negotiated could have been only more unfavourable than the original agreement itself. And it becomes more clear that by embedding quotas that 6 countries had in bilateral free trade agreements with Croatia that the possibility was actually created no matter how well they were negotiated those quotas but yet the possibility of full use of these quotas was created much greater, much greater use of these quotas than it was through bilateral agreements with 6 new members of the European Union. For this reason, it may also be possible to ask the legal question today whether a single protocol that is a document with an international agreement is, at all, under the law on the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts, whether or not it should be ratified in this procedure in which this protocol is ratified today, and therefore I claim that today's debate in whatever direction it is going on will not produce the necessary results, nor will it make any real sense. I say that the debate so far confirmed that there was no legal need for the conclusion of this Protocol Agreement at least not at the time when the debate was held, so it was confirmed that what we claimed about last year just over a year ago, that our obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement were simply such that, with the conclusion of this Protocol alone, we should not have gone, we could have waited, we could have entered into a Stabilisation and Association Agreement simply by legal arguments resisting the attempt to incorporate additional quotas into the existing agreement. Also, today's debate has already made it clear that in another case which we discussed today in the current morning, we have spoken, asked, in the event of the agreement on the introduction of sugar export quotas that it has violated the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because now that this agreement has entered into force now that there is a Stabilisation and Association Council, it becomes clear that there are no more arguments by the government which would justify not being presented before the Parliament of the previous opinion or previous consent to the amendment of that agreement, or that there are no amendments to the Stabilisation and Association Council at all, and it is quite clear that I do not know only in which procedure an additional opinion should have been brought before 2 June when the government adopted a decision to agree on the introduction of export quotas for sugar, that it was necessary to hold a debate in the Assembly. In this debate today, another thing becomes clear is that the Government does not adhere to any of the conclusions of November 2001, which obliges the Government to submit 6-month reports on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I do not remember when, except somewhere at the beginning of the validity, or after the conclusion of that Agreement, there was only one or two reports, and every 6 months the Parliament was to be reported, having a discussion on implementation and all issues and problems in implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I don't know if anyone in this House remembers that conclusion today, but this isn't about a better or worse memory than it is about an institutionalized formalised commitment given by the Parliament to the government. Therefore, I think that today we are in a situation where we can discuss that the Government is not sufficiently prepared to stand behind legal instruments, legal obligations and legal solutions already in international contracts, that it is easy to give way to all European Commission requirements, the European Union is doing so probably in order or out of assessment to make it easier or better to get one position in that final date for negotiations, however, in a situation where we have legal arguments, when we have economic arguments, I am quite sure that we need to make them much stronger and more decisive and use them. For this reason, when I say that there was no economic need, I base this on the fact that in these negotiations on Protocol 7, we are not in any part to improve our export position, or that we only improved it in the part where it was limited, and this was a very small part of Croatian exports to the European Union market in part of the wine and fish products, however, for all other areas we had completely free exports, therefore nothing more than we could expect in Protocol 7. On the other hand, by installing the six quotas in our contract with 15 members of the European Union, every amount that has been installed above what is really exported from 6 countries to Croatia, and such quotas that are above the actual imports from 6 countries were certainly largely, and we did not even get that comparison to the extent that the agreed quotas go beyond the actual exports of certain products, but in each part where they cross that actual exports, there was a possibility of full use of those quotas because now those quotas can be used by the countries of the old members of the European Union, so if we have not imported chocolate from Hungary or Slovenia, we will now be absolutely certain, there will be an importer that will be introduced from Belgium. Therefore, these quotas agreed on will not remain unused and the information the minister made on the growth of imports of only 7% I don't think we need to be comforted or need to be a reason to justify the good outcome of the negotiations, because the growth of imports of 7% is certainly quite an unfavourable trend. Finally, since all these arguments that we have made at the moment when it may have been possible, to accept and to deal with them seriously, all these arguments that are presented today cannot practically change anything in the very content of Protocol 7 and such an agreement with the European Union. Today, it is difficult to be against the very validation of it, i.e. the integration into legal relations and trade relations between Croatia and the European Union, so the SDP Representatives' Club will, in fact, so to say, leave it to the Club members to decide individually on how to vote on this very law confirming this protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39263	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the promoter, the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry reported, Mr. Cobankovic, please elect a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39264	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I, as a representative of the motionors and the Government, must present certain facts, here in a debate in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the question of whether there was a legal framework for negotiations at all over the additional protocol. In order for the Croatian public to be properly informed and not to be fooled by the Croatian public, allow me to say and state the fact that it is at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia 29. Ten. In 2003, a decision to open negotiations and appoint a negotiating delegation was adopted. It means that the government in which the respected representative Mr Mimica was Minister of European Integration accepted negotiations on an additional protocol and appointed an delegation. Our government has nothing left but that, in accordance with the changes that have taken place, it has changed the composition of the negotiating delegation and done so. This is just enough so that the Croatian population will not be fooled and some will not appear as autochthonous guardians of the interest of Croatian agriculture and Croatian food industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39265	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39266	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister said the incorrect allegation is that there are indigenous guardians of Croatian agriculture. I don't think that's there yet, I'm correcting it in that quote. There are people who are trying in this direction and there are those who unfortunately don't see it and don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39267	Thank you very much, colleague. There's a direct and indirect speech, but good. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the Croatian party of law, counterpart Tonci Tadic reported on behalf of the club. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39268	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister and the other representatives of the Croatian Government! So this Protocol VII. and all the protocols mentioned here are crucial for Croatia and we hold that Croatia had to hold firmly to a ratified Stabilisation and Association Agreement when negotiating them. Nothing beyond that is allowed. Everything beyond that is not only a violation of the signed international agreement but also a violation of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. Article 38, forgive me for starting with this, but I need to bring that fact here. Article 38 speaks of a general safeguard clause, so one of the parties to the agreement, whether the European Union, was Croatia protecting its market. Therefore, where a product of the one party is imported into the territory of the other party in such increased quantities and in such conditions that it could cause serious damage to the domestic industry or serious disturbances in any sector of the economy and lead to a serious deterioration of the economic situation, then the importing Party may take appropriate measures under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down by this law. Such measures shall not go beyond what is necessary to eliminate difficulties, consist of an increase in customs duties for that product and shall not be carried out for more than one year or for an exceptionally longer period of three years. But it is crucial that all these controversial moments be resolved by the Stabilisation and Association Council. This Protocol was not amended through the Stabilisation and Association Council which was then formed but, moreover, there was a provisional Stabilisation and Association Council which implemented the temporary trade agreement between Croatia and the European Union which was in force from 1 February 2002 and which expired on 1 February of this year when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement finally entered into force and the provisional Council was to be managed with the negotiations on this. Nothing else. I am particularly pointing out here because we are now in the same situation as sugar, that it is crystal clear that sugar is not mentioned anywhere in this as a need to limit Croatian exports, that sugar has not been mentioned in 2001 as something special to be limited, that now the European Union is asking to reduce the export quota of sugar from 160 thousand tonnes as far as our completely free export to 60 thousand tonnes and that Croatia agrees deadly instead of calling for Article 38 and initiates a debate on the Stabilisation and Association Council which de facto acts as arbitration. Of course we have to be concerned about what's going to turn out because if the same thing that's done here happens again, which is that the government is negotiating this without Parliament's consent, that the Parliament has no idea about it, that there's no idea of any of the parliamentary committees, but we're getting a document that we have to ratify today because that's what someone signed it. Then he asks what the Parliament is for, what the Committee on Negotiation Control is for, what we advocates serve, what the Croatian public is for. So watch out, now I'm going to name a few sensational successes you've achieved, Mr. Minister. So, you've increased the cranium export quotas from 550 tonnes to 650 tonnes. Great. It's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... The sreds remained on the same 180-ton quota. Awesome. Anchovies at 40 tons went to 50 tons. The nuts remained the same at 35 tons. So, if it's an incentive for our exports and I remind myself that we only make 163 million euros from fish exports, then I wonder who's crazy here. I'm sorry, I mean, with these shifts in quotas with ten more members, with the fact that we lost the entire former CEFTA market, this cannot be considered your success or the success of this Croatian government. Furthermore, let's not go further on all this together, but it is crystal clear that we are actually dealing with a high-sustaining agriculture with the European Union where 40% of the budget goes to a subsidy in agriculture and we here have to cut subsidies to join the Union. Look, it's a complete absurdity, and we don't settle in HSP. We wonder as much as we can why the government does it all together. If the goal is to join the Union, if that's how we're going to get into the Union, then one wonders what's the use of that and that time entering the Union. I'm going to name something else here that's gotten away from the negotiators, but I'm very surprised nobody thought of it in the meantime. Therefore, regardless of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, regardless of what appears here in Appendix 1 to Protocol 2 that Croatia has no export quotas for steel production, the European Union has introduced a quota for the export of besame tubes from Sisak. There is an anti-dumping duty of 23% on besame pipes in the Union and they gave us a zero-tariff quota of only 25 thousand tonnes, which is 1/5 of Sisak production and that quota expired on 1 February of this year, and nothing to anyone. There's no discussion about that. But when the Union senses the dangers of those 1% of our sugar that we export to the Union then there is panic, then negotiations must be launched immediately, and then the Minister says that she expresses great understanding of their economic difficulties and that Croatia has authorised the Ministry of Agriculture to start negotiations with the European Union to protect itself from our 1% of sugar as much as we export sugar to the Union. So, out of its sugar in the Union 1% is our sugar and there it is causing huge economic difficulties. And the fact that we Sisak Irons no longer have the possibility to export to the European market these icy pipes, that we have lost the entire East European market to no one, and of course there is no mention of it in this document. No one has bothered not to let God protect our exports but when problems with Croatian imports happen to the Union, when it happens in those 10% of products where we are more competitive and better than they achieve the effect then we must be stopped. And the result, of course, is this protocol. The result is the start of negotiations with the Union on limiting our exports of sugar. As a result, there's going to be a whole series of things we're going to be experiencing for the past year and everything on behalf of the so-called. the sacred goal of joining the Union at all costs. Well, Mr. Minister, for all these reasons, the HSP Club won't vote for this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39269	Thank you very much, colleague. No more club reports. For a ten-minute hearing he was reported...... Excuse me? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] State Secretary. All right, here you go. Excuse me. I haven't seen you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39270	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd like to correct a few false allegations we've heard here. The first is, there was no temporary council, unfortunately. There was an Interim Stabilisation and Association Committee, and in the opening speech, I said that, therefore, the Interim Committee had no control over this. That's why it had to go on a different legal basis. Therefore, a) the agreement entered into force on 1 February of this year, so beyond the signing of this Agreement. Another guilty allegation was related to a statement by MP Rados on how the secretary of state signed something in Sofia on June 8th of this year. Our government official didn't sign anything. It was a statement that was finally given, and if you watched a little bit of what the conclusions were, so this working group that the note of bene began to work in 2003. It is concluded that the working group will try to find common ground, common principles based on CEFTA, and we know well that some of the countries involved in, therefore, which are from Southeast Europe do not satisfy what should be done for CEFTA membership, that is membership in the World Trade Organisation and so on and the position of our Government is that, without membership in the World Trade Organisation, there is no point in entering any new kind of organisation where some countries are also having problems with the implementation of bilateral agreements they have signed. So it's going to work, but nothing's done. It's a very indicative, indicative conversation, and I don't think we can talk about the government being unserious. And lastly, since the issue of sugar has been opened several times there and the government is also charged that it has not acted in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement law, I assure you that the Government is very well aware of the text of the SSP Implementation Act, and that at the moment when it is necessary, and that this moment has not yet come in the same parliamentary procedure will find the views of the Government, which will then be discussed in accordance with the appropriate framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39271	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39272	Well, Mrs. Secretary of State first said that nothing was signed then eventually said there was a signed statement. The statement is a document, and the Stability Pact pages say that a very ambitious declaration has been signed. The declaration says representatives of the government will be found in half a year. The forum met at the foreign ministers' level most. With us, it was the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy. The ambition is to complete negotiations on the introduction of a single, free trade zone of Balkan, Western Balkan countries by the end of 2006, and ambition is equally signed that the free trade zone is starting to operate as early as 1 January 2007. That's what the Stability Pact pages say. The worst thing that can happen, Madam Secretary of State, is that we sign one outside, and then here in Croatia we declare that we did not sign it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39273	Thank you very much, colleague. Only agent Ivan Kolar was reported for a ten-minute debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39274	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a chance, though, to talk a little bit about agriculture even though it's not just agriculture, but at least, at least, about the state it is and what perspectives it has on protocol and signed documents. I will repeat that every signature or every one of our officials when there is any signature on any paper puts us all together and the whole "nice one" commitment. That's right, Mr. Minister, you must know that you have loaded a burden on agriculture, Croatian agriculture, which she now hates to bear by signing an additional protocol. That's your karma you have to wear. The peasants will never forget that, believe me. Because you didn't open the door, you didn't do some good treatment for Croatian agriculture, let's open it all over the importers and the import lobby to destroy this little farm that exists. Unfortunately, as much as you're talking about progress, the facts say otherwise. And when I was talking about that data display of yours, Mr. Rados taught you finely how to talk about numbers, what were the figures, what were they after the signature, and what does that expect us to do? Then we could talk about the facts. As far as it is, it's now said 100 million, I'm afraid it's more of a commitment, but it doesn't matter either. Because neither you nor I can imagine what's going on in the future. I'm aware of the pressures that have taken place on this, on your government, on the previous Government of Europe, and that happens, and that, I'm talking about the purely commercial lobby on the outside and on the inside and wants to break in because the money, the capital, it has to be placed somewhere. The fact that Croatian agriculture is worth a statistical error to world scales then you know how strong we are and how much power we have to negotiate with someone. That's what scientists tell us. But if we behave like this, they won't even count us as a statistical error because in this way we can't actually appreciate the value of our agriculture anymore. And that's our problem, our problem. Because all of this has already gone beyond saying what is the situation in Croatian agriculture? A peasant aspect, a peasant agricultural policy and all that. I guess we're all aware that when we adopt the state budget, we haven't provided enough resources to at least show Europe its teeth. If 50 billion of Europe's budget gives for agriculture, I'm talking about this expansion now, and we're staying where we are, so I'm asking you as soon as I compete and what raises domestic production? Which segment? Here I am today pleased with your object about wheat only in that segment that you won't fuck those 1650 kunas clearly per hectare, but clearly I'm not satisfied with what you said would be that price of 90. I believe it's just a wish that's a wasteful one and that this desert wish ends up somewhere in a basket, and that the minimal thing that has to be achieved is because you and I both know that we've never done a calculation of the economic justification of production. Which, how much is the cost and that we didn't agree on. And what our processors are saying now is what cheap raw materials would make, so why don't they start producing it for themselves and not for the back of the peasants, the peasant population that's been carrying that load all along. But let's let it go now. And if we turn forward to this present moment, the European farmer has security and knows if the excess production is that the state is subsidized and that it gets its cost of production. I'm asking you where your, our market order is, where our, your guaranteed prices are, where our, your secure buyers are, where our and yours are, that I don't add any further, and that's our task. Almost half the term has passed. You said it was the first and most important task of this government. I expect this government to give her safety, that she knows which production is in both quantity and so on. Well, we started restructuring, let's go globalisation. We said we're not just going into globalisation, we're going into liberalisation. And believe me, liberal capitalism and globalisation as the general concept of Croatia will be eaten. She keeps it up. So it would be good for you, Mr. Minister, to tell your associates about the eco-social market economy, to perceive that we are a small country, that we have thousands of small-owned farmers. And that as such a agricultural policy be an imperative of protection and task for you as a negotiator, authorised negotiators in Europe to impose that pace. I wish we all had 40 cows, 40 acres of land. I'd love for us to have some wartime, but that's impossible. For the social status of the Republic of Croatia, for 500 thousand of those households that now depend on agriculture because there are no jobs elsewhere, this is yours and our imperative. Yeah, we're talking about people, well 120 and a few thousand, okay, 30, but 500 thousand people, so, indirectly and more if we're concrete. But it's your mission and ours. So, in Europe, going by European model, this country has no chance. And all those who think they can do it are Moses, they'll do it, you'll take us out on a mild, happy path, but it's impossible to do it. Believe me, neither you nor I can experience it because first we don't have the means, we don't have anything and we don't hate these people who just take care of us in a different way. So this protocol binds our hands in such a way that we simply don't raise production. It stops or stagniates or falls and this is what you're talking about increasing milk. Every year we talk 10, 12% we increase because we have 30 or 28% of the imports of that milk all the time. Well, for God's sake, that's why we have him. Because what's highly subsidized outside and our companies are cheap to do it. But let's subsidize ours to make it cost more, even ours to win. What's that? Well, the premiums haven't been paid for three and a half months, four of them haven't come in at all this year. Let me know when he gets his support. Let the one who got the support come forward. I'm talking about the first and second categories. So where do I live? I guess I live in space when it's not there. And what are we, what agricultural policy are we talking about? There, a European peasant knows, either a thousand or two or five thousand boos to the economy, that's his right to use. So the burden taken over by this government in the way of this agreement that we are now through this agreement, it would be fair to be told that we know that, if we had opened the door to everything and everything, that they were, by volume, increased by species, and that would have been then and for us a sign that we had to organize ourselves in another way. Clearly, with the help of the institution that we should be, but you know that our institutions are having a hard time coming to life from approaching pre-accession funds programmes, about the Food Agency, not talking right now. Which one works? So finally, here's a question for you when rural development comes along? When can someone nominate a project to make it happen, etc? When our people are able in a month or two after capital support, to make funds return. Well, six months goes on, a year goes on. Well, Mr. Minister, I'm a realist, I live here, I hear what people do. So I intervene every day. When our people can round up their households, when programs go to get the country round? When, give me that? Who does that, when are the programs that? Well, these are questions and you have these, you signed them all, you have them all in these additional protocols, etc. Because that's where the restructuring talks, says institutional support, says everything. What institution is this, which institution should I address specifically today? She's gone. Well, the Foreign Ministry's got to write, so I'm telling you, I'm writing, and it's pointing me to someone else. To whom? These are our problems, that's exactly what he's saying, here are the obligations of such a character, which we're not even aware we've taken over, we're not aware because we think someone else is going to do it. No, Mr. Minister, we have to do this, you and me together, but a little more trust, a little more information and not hide like a snake feet of this data. Our fruitcakes certainly can't justify this, this increase. I know the butes say we don't have enough for our own needs to export, but why open more because we can't lift our production, and we've made that program. Well, that's notorious facts. You have to make it clear from your point of view that there are great efforts, but the results that are on the ground, it is your choice to testify every day and see what the situation in agriculture is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39275	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the promoter, the Minister of Agriculture reported. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39276	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honors and Madam Representatives. I need to say a few words. We are discussing here today an additional protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Protocol. I am both at the beginning and Madam Secretary of State has said what this additional Protocol applies to. I agree that directly or indirectly this Protocol, this Agreement is touching our agriculture, and no one can escape from it. I said the total value of preferential trade regulated by this Protocol, but we also need to know that this amount is just a transfer of preferential trade that was with the accession countries is now transferred to the EU-25. Thus, this additional agreement did not create a basis for increasing imports into the Republic of Croatia. Because he already existed through free trade contracts and was already realised in the average period between 2001 and 2003. For which the average was taken and it was incorporated as an additional quota. Now let me say a little bit about our farm too. Normally, the situation in agriculture isn't great, it's not what we'd like it to be. But I can't even say some incorrect things. It's milk. Milk is one of the products in the Republic of Croatia that is highly favored. Whose price and whose incentives are significantly above the price in the European Union and significant incentives beyond incentives in the European Union because there is virtually no incentive for milk production. Payout is something I'm not happy with either. I'd be extremely happy, happy in 2004, when we left, if I had a situation that we'd started the budget, the years, and we'd go for incentives. Let's not go back and talk about that. But also don't say we're three months late. Milk is paid for and milk support has always been paid for within 60 days of the reckoning. So, is that right? We're less than a month behind on the payoff and we're holding that beat. Despite the increase in production, the quota and milk incentives are neither reduced or paid. They pay off with a certain delay and we're behind it, but it's not something that's catastrophic and it's not three months late, it's less than a month late. Dear Mr. Representative, I'd be happy if we weren't in a situation if we didn't, if we had orchards. How self-sufficient is our self-sufficiency in certain kinds of fruit? Unfortunately, other than Mandarin, we have no kind of self-sufficiency in any kind of fruit. Can this situation change overnight? Gentlemen, the fruit minimum from planting to first generation is minimum for 3 years. So we started a very ambitious program, an operational program to increase secret plantations, orchards, vineyards, olive trees, and that program is being implemented. I'd be happier if it started five, ten, or I don't know how many years ago, and we were heading in the direction right now because of what you're talking about. And here, one of the other MPs was talking about the structure of our property. It's about the number of economies, it's about the number of people dealing with agriculture, which is why I'm stressing that all those people who deal with agriculture, could continue to deal with agriculture, we need to make some turns, we need to increase the value of the total from agriculture, and secondly we need to increase the number of working hours in agriculture. And because of this, it is precisely the intensity and strategic commitment of this ministry that goes towards increasing the production of fruits and vegetables, flowers, labour-intense cultures, where per unit of surface income is made significantly higher than on traditional war productions. The next item is what is an upgrade of plant production, livestock production because of this we went to an operational programme to increase cattle production, soon the programme will go to the government to increase pig production and these are strategic projects of this government, but these are projects which unfortunately cannot reflect and cannot produce results overnight. I'm not happy as a minister that we have this situation in agriculture, but one has to say, enough, we have to go and we have to go in some other directions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39277	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We have corrections to incorrect allegations, Agent Kolar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39278	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates. Well, Mr. Minister, we said the same thing, you put yourself in the position of the manufacturer if you don't get the incentive for three months, which means whether you're a month late or 60 days old, I want you to interpret the law if the farmer doesn't get the money. What he does is, this continuity is broken and now it's not going regularly, and you can tell me what you want here. Furthermore, capital support is never paid out six months ago, even later, income support has not come, and you are now saying it has come. I tell you from the field examples, I don't make up, every day I'm home so I know what's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39279	Thank you. We have another correction to the incorrect allegations by MP Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39280	Thank you very much. I think that Mr. Minister has tried again in his incorrect quote that the same Free Trade Treaty is the same, and it has been transferred to the EU 25 that it is the same. You know where the biggest problem is, and it is not the same, and I am correcting you in that because these countries are now significantly more competitive and significantly different potential in the European Union and it is impossible to compare it and what has already been said, unfortunately those quotas that have been and have not been used, are exploiting some others.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39281	I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, you don't have a chance under the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on with the debate. No more registered clubs in the debate, just for the final word on behalf of the HSS Club MP Josip Vresk please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39282	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State. Actually, I wasn't going to pick up, and I wouldn't be sure to discuss this matter if it wasn't for a couple of chiefs of things. In this House, as I recall, in April of last month there was a debate on the interpretation of the work of the government submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, we mentioned then that the government had violated the Law, that it knew that it had violated the Law,... it was simply rejected that the Government had not broken the law. Now we see, however, that the situation is a little different. It was disputed whether the government then violated the law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement or broke the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. We have then said in the proposal that the Government did not violate the law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts but that the provisions of the Law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement were violated, and that specific provisions relating to the conclusions to be drawn by the Croatian Parliament under the Government's proposal, regardless of the government's position on the negotiations with its special decision. In fact, two terms are artificially excitated today throughout the debate, the term of the interim committee is escipated and the term of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is escipated. Why would I tell you that? For this reason, the Government itself in this proposal for ratification would write that the legal basis for the conclusion of the protocol is in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Law on the Implementation of the Agreement, then it would be evident that the government then broke the law, which we claimed. Of course, the HSS Club has proposed another two conclusions that have been rejected and against this was initiated before the Constitutional Court in order to assess the constitutionality, i.e. the legality of these conclusions of the Assembly, and I can say that the only controversial thing in the whole story is the constitutional court procedure whether the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament are correct or not and that is so. However, if you read the proposal today correctly, it says under II. The assessment of the situation and the objective of the law is to achieve, and so it says in paragraph 3: "The legal basis for the conclusion of the Protocol is set out in Article 36. Stabilisation and Association Agreements." Thus, it is obvious that the Law on the Implementation of the Agreement. In order to quote last April the Government in its interpretation report: "When negotiating with the Commission of the European Union... and to continue to adhere to the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts and not to apply the Law on the Implementation of the SAA in those negotiations". It's obvious that the government then broke the law even though it wasn't meant to be said here. But I'm going to say one fundamental thing, and I agree with Mr. Mimic that there really wasn't a single legal reason for signing this Protocol, whether there was an economic I don't know it, I'm not a businessman, but obviously it's neither economic. So for these two reasons, for the principle reasons, the HSS Club will not support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39283	Thank you, colleague. There are no more registered deputies. For the final word, it appeared on behalf of the promoter of the Ministers of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, please welcome Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39284	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, at the end of this debate I'm going to say a few words about what I'm holding important one more time repeat what this is about. First, this agreement regulates the form of trade, the free trade agreement between the European Union and the enlarged European Union and the Republic of Croatia. The subject of this agreement has been the current forms of trade between the Republic of Croatia and the accession countries that have been regulated by free trade contracts. I said when I talked about certain quotas, I told the European Commission's initial quotas that they were made on the basis of the mathematical collection of quotas that were the components of the free trade agreement of the Croatian accession countries. I said that the Republic of Croatia did not accept this as an initial position but has just insisted on the current volume of trade preferential between Croatia and accession countries, which means that the words of the respected representative, Mr Pankretic, that there is a danger that now that they have been transferred to the EU 25 they will be more competitive, that other countries will be able to use those quotas. They cannot be used because that volume of trade already existed, which was transferred in this Protocol VII. So it was something that existed and was happening between the accession countries and the Republic of Croatia. The other thing, Croatia got. Under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Croatia had duty-free, duty-free exports of its products except those of the three product groups concerned. So Croatia has received an extended market with ten new accession countries. It can be righted whether there was a legal framework and whether Croatia should have agreed and started negotiations and concluded negotiations. I made it clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was on 29.10.1903, that a decision was taken to open negotiations and appoint a negotiating delegation. After the elections, the government amended the composition of the negotiating delegation in 22.1.2004 and 18.2.2004 and began negotiations. Negotiations were not conditional on how you want to impute AVI or something. Negotiations were conducted with other countries that had a similar status as the Republic of Croatia and ended before they finished with the Republic of Croatia. So, this is with Macedonia, Romania and Bulgaria ended before the Republic of Croatia. As far as Mr. Radosh's question is concerned, perhaps I should try again to clarify some of the questions that have been asked. Let's take an example of apples. Croatia had an apple quota with Slovenia, meaning duty-free imports from Slovenia to Croatia. This was the basis for the initial request of the European Commission and we are on the basis of negotiations but not only on the basis of negotiations but also on the fact that Slovenia did not export 12 thousand tonnes during the three-year period, but it exported the average here and the other preferential countries did not have contracts with others. The average was 5 grand and 800 tons and we were able to negotiate it. So the first-ever level that existed preferential is now transferred to this quota. Let's take the next question. Let's get the soybean oil you've asked for. Croatia had free trade agreements without restrictions and without quotas the possibility of exporting soybean oil with the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and it seems to me if I am not mistaken for Poland. So, no quota and no customs restrictions. We've installed here a certain 980-ton quota that we think is quite appropriate and that was so much of a preferential trade. As regards sugar and chocolate products, this is 500 tonnes sugar, 450 tonnes. These were one of the products that were regulated in the fourth round. So, very sensitive products and where we have had intensive consultations with representatives of the candidate Croatian industry where we have introduced them to both the European Commission's initial demands and what we can achieve in the negotiations, and here these quotas have been established accordingly. And the point is that these are just the transferred level of trade that was until 2004, so until the entry was between the accession countries and the Republic of Croatia. And now I'm just going to look back in a few segments at some of the questions that have been set up. Among other things, there was a question of investment support for capital investments. Here, I'm going to say that this is one of the support models that we're trying to strengthen and we're holding that something that needs to be very helpful in better structure, better equipment and running our agriculture in some of the desired directions. That model was introduced in 2003. In 2003, 175 applications worth 13 million kuna were processed and paid. In 2004, a thousand 524 applications were processed and 77 million kunas were paid. From 1.1. to 1.6.2005, 1245 applications were received at the Ministry. Of these 1245 requests, 820 applications or 65.9% were processed. It's approved for payment of 615 applications. The controls set out up to 205 requests do not meet the criteria and are negatively responsible. Of these 605 approved applications, 363 applications amounting to 21 million 790 thousand kuna were paid. It is in preparation for the payment of 252 requests of 13 million 394 thousand. 425 requests are subject to completion of the documentation and completion of the processing. What else would you like to say here? I would like to say that in these two years, we have three times changed the Regulation on the terms and conditions of income support, and I don't keep it bad, but I do hold that if we need to change it again, but that regulation is in the capacity to achieve income support. So, among other things, let me just say that last year we changed the way he regulated that the investments that were made from the first month to the sixth month that the requirements were submitted from the seventh month to the 12th month. We changed it in a way that that after the completed investment could be submitted to the request. So, we've been heading towards a process acceleration and according to this and we've seen a significant increase in the number and requirements, as well as a significant increase in the number and of those approved requirements as well as the payment of the claims. As far as income support is concerned, income support is one of the models we want to be in the function of separating commercial from non-commercial producers. You know that last year, by amending and supplementing the Law on money support in agriculture, we changed, we increased the amount and we introduced another group. The result is that we have more than tripled our income support requirements this year and that's what we're looking for. We strive to keep that part of the small, non-economic, non-market-oriented economies together, but to enable it to achieve income support and thus in some way not to be left to itself but to go in the direction of a certain aid to the state on the one hand and on the other hand, it is the urgency that the support in agriculture is not a social category. So for commercial economies, this is not a social category, but that it is something that should serve to increase the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture, which should make our agriculture products competitive. And speaking of the level of support, it is often said that support in the European Union does not know how high-subsidized products are as high as Croatian. Croatia's support and direct production incentives model, as well as the investment support model, is something that is very close to the support, and in some segments significantly above the support in the European Union. As an example, I cite milk. It's way above the support. And so, in the Croatian economy, farmers who deal with milk production and have a certain area compared to economies in European production of the same size, the same production of milk, the same areas have twice as much support as they achieve such same economies in the European Union. I'm saying it's a specific example of milk. Incentives per unit of area are lower than, for crops per unit of area are lower than incentives in the European Union, but now policy change has changed, European common policy and incentives are introduced in the European Union from production, incentives by agricultural economies. I started on support income so this year we have in the first group, for the first group just a moment of 358, 3587 economies with 4430, 4473 users, or at the level of 53 million 893 thousand. For the second group we have 300, 3550 economies and users with an amount of 17 million 750. The data for the payment of income support are in preparation. Due to the difficulty of issuing a solution to the right to income support, something is delayed, we expect that early July will create conditions for the first and second quarter to be paid at once. As for the other group, they are not paid quarterlyly but paid once a year. Here are some of the exact data that have been put in place and enquiries, which are in some way not directly related to the said agreement, the additional agreement or Protocol 7, but I kept it necessary for the Croatian public and for Croatian farmers to say a few words about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39285	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is MP Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39286	Well, Madam Vice-President, however hard Mr. Minister tried to sign Protocol 7 was not an economic interest and the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia were not realized and you won't even be able to convince yourself. Unfortunately, no political interests were realized either. And it's a disaster, and unfortunately the more we talk about it, the more we all become aware of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39287	Thank you very much. The second correction to the incorrect quote is MP Kolar here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39288	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates. Well, here I thank the minister that he said we should, that we should, because actually, he confirmed everything I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39289	Thank you very much, dear colleague. No more reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39290	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please be in your seats. Please engage to establish, please engage. Are we all included in who we are? Say, how much? 98 MPs and MPs. Then we'll go to the vote. First, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their Member States, of the other part, P.Z. No. 307. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Stabilisation and Association Protocol between the Republic of Croatia on the one hand and the European Communities and their Member States, I shall not enter at this time into a measure of matter, in the importance of this Protocol and refer to the proposed amendment. The Government agrees with the amendment proposed in Article 2. Proposal for a law by the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament, with the following supplement. That is, to delete from that article the name of the Protocol in the Maltese language simply for the consistency of the text, and we propose that the same principle be applied to the rest of the bill. In particular, a supplement is proposed in which Chapter IV would take place. Article 6 shall specify all the languages, i.e. those provided for in the Draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39292	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39293	I agree, we agreed to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39294	An amendment like this becomes an integral part of the Law. I am now voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 87 votes for, 12 abstentions and 7 against adoption, passed this Law along with the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39295	We can move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Act with the Consented International Convention on Cooperation in the Safety of Air Navigation "Eurocontrol" of 13 December 1960 with all amendments, adopted on 27 June 1997 in Brussels, together with the amendments to the diplomatic conference of 27 June 19997, the Additional Protocol on the transition from the multilateral agreement on routine fees regime of 12 February 1981 to the regime of the relevant provisions of the harmonised version of the International Convention on Cooperation on the Safety of Air Navigation of Eurocontrol with amendments adopted in Brussels in 1997, including its Appendix IV. (hereinafter referred to as "the provisions on the common system of routine fees") and the harmonised (cleaned) text which combines the current conventions and the amendment of the diplomatic conference from 27 June 1997 with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading of P.Z. No. 308; you have all a proposal on the agenda not to read. I think I'd be reading the dot longer than he's reported. In view of the fact that there are no registered representatives for this point, neither on behalf of clubs nor in the individual debate, it is an emergency procedure for the adoption of laws. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159, the first and second readings were united. You have submitted amendments until the end of the debate, and the debate has been carried out: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Drazen Breglec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39296	I would like to thank Madam Vice President of the Parliament, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Despite the fact that there are no reports of debate on this point, I felt the need to say a few sentences to explain, I hope, however, what this point of the agenda means, and what it is, I won't say, but what is behind the 16 lines of the long title that I agree with, I don't need to read more times. Just read it once. I would just like to say that Eurocontrol, the European Aviation Safety Organisation, is composed of 30, so the founders are 34 countries of which Croatia is also. It has been working since 1960 and in 1997 one of the frequent changes in its own acts under which Eurocontrol acts has been incorporated into three acts proposed by today's Law. Croatia as I have said since 1997. That same year, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, these three acts of the long title were signed by Janko Vranicani Dobrinović, and at the Croatian Parliament it is based on the Croatian Constitution to confirm and thus actually enable the acts to take effect according to their content. About content itself, we can say the following about content itself. So, with these three acts, the regulations of Eurocontrol are harmonised. Equivalence of technical standards is made possible and equalises the calculation of routine or pre-flight charges, fees. Otherwise, in front of air navigation control over Europe, there are major structural changes ahead of the control system which will be seen in the coming months because this House will also be very soon and addressed, a proposal for ratification of a significant agreement titled "CA Agreement" in which there has already been some considerable controversy in the public. I would also like to say that since it has, they have arrived from the Committee on Law and Amendments which are of nomotechnical character to propose, so that the Government accepts this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39297	Thank you very much. They want a report from the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one's reported. I'm closing the debate. The second is the Final Proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of the Protocol with the International Convention on Cooperation on the Safety of Air Navigation Eurocontrol, P.Z. No. 308. The amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the applicant. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find it unanimous with 105 votes to pass this law along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39300	Honored gentlemen and Madam Representatives. A few sentences about this bill. In the middle of December of last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of this loan agreement with the European Investment Bank. The text of the Treaty is soon harmonised and initialled with the Bank and signed on 24 December 2004. It is a 150m-euro loan co-financed by the project and the integrated development of the local community. The current programmes for the reconstruction and construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities that have been implemented or implemented under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development have been largely concentrated and concentrated in areas of special state care in order to ensure the necessary conditions for the return of the population. In doing so, these programmes did not cover all the priority needs of municipalities and cities in the area for the reconstruction and construction of river infrastructure, as well as improving housing conditions. At the same time, great interest has been expressed in similar programmes by units of local self-government outside the area of special state concern. Since the financial capacities of local self-government do not generally enable integrated local development planning in all aspects of municipal, infrastructure and social development, the European Investment Bank has concluded a contract in question on the financing of the project of integrated development of the local community. The aim of the project is to reduce imbalances in the development of certain areas and create preconditions for sustainable economic and social development. Integrated management of the development of local communities, raising the quality and availability of municipal and social services, and systematic care about vulnerable population groups and finally systematic care about environmental protection. The project will be implemented in areas of municipalities, i.e. cities of special state care, mountain and mountain areas, border areas towards Slovenia, and other areas of the Republic of Croatia, except in the City of Zagreb and the island, since special programmes exist for the islands. It will be implemented exclusively by local character through 3 components. Communal, consisting of supply, draining, electrification, unclassified roads, gas supply, road infrastructure, markets and the like. Then, the social component, homes for older and powerless, kindergartens, schools and school sports halls, playgrounds, health homes and infirmarys, museums, libraries, local self-government facilities. And finally, a component of environmental protection, waste dumps, recycling facilities, waste and the like. Sub-projects shall nominate units of local self-government, and shall be selected on the basis of criteria established by an inter-minor working group composed of competent ministries co-ordinated by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, as this is the ministry under the proposed Law responsible for the implementation of the project. The Interresor Group will also establish other criteria essential for the implementation of the project. The estimated value of the project is 2 billion and 250 million kuna, i.e. 300 million euros, of which the loan of the EIB is financed by 50% and 50% and all other tax and other fiscal contributions from the state budget. The project is also projected to be co-financed by a shit unit of local self-government. The loan was granted on a 20-year period with 5 years starting and 15 years paying off with interest or fixed of 3,89% annually or variable between 2,24 and 2,37% depending on the range and all on 24 May 2005. The loan would be used in the period from 2005 to 2008 when the project should be fully completed. This proposal proposes to confirm the financing contract in question, the way in which the financial commitments created for the Republic of Croatia as a borrower, for the years 2005 to the final payment of 2030, and as donors of grants from the state budget at the time of implementation of the project, as well as the competences of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development for the implementation of the project. It is proposed that the Law be adopted by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39301	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? Finance and the state budget? Economy, development and reconstruction? Local and regional, regional self-government? I'm opening a debate. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39302	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Of course these contracts should be supported. Is that on the other hand it is one additional credit position of the Republic of Croatia, but it should also be acknowledged that it is the most favourable means that the Republic of Croatia can get on the international money market at this time. The second thing I want to say is the IDS supports especially the purpose of the loan. It means that, in order to be said here, it removes economic differences. The loan primarily directs towards areas of special state care, according to areas which we call mountain-mountan areas, i.e. the border area of the Republic of Croatia. It is also about a corresponding amount of 150m euros or somewhere around a billion and 100m kuna. The payment deadline is 20 years with five years of waiting. Fixed interest is 3.89%. But the point is this, with the fact that every loan needs to be returned, that significant projects should be realised, means that credit is granted to urban settlements as indicated, for water and gas supply, wastewater disposal, local roads, etc. Then, the loan is directed primarily as they say of essential repairs and reconstruction of existing infrastructure. And in this sense, the IDS Club means it already wants to run for reconstruction of the old town's core in the city of Buzet at this stage. So, first, the City of Buzet is a border area towards the Republic of Slovenia, and on that basis it meets the conditions. The city of Buzet is included in the status of the mountain-mounted area, and it also meets the criteria of this loan under that condition. And thirdly, we're running for sewage reconstructions, plumbing, just like that, streets, lighting, I don't know, electricity in the old town that's like such a note of bene and a monument of culture. So it's a Roman castle that received the final contours during Venice, where the sewerage is unfortunately still from that period. The water came there in 33 years, where losses are over 50%, and by that basis conditions are met under quotes, loans. We believe that this project will, therefore, be accepted, be worth an investment of about 2 million euros, and we hold, as I said, that the government will approve the loan. This reconstruction of water and sewerage, and thus city streets, lighting meets all the criteria of this loan and we hold that this loan, and it is relevant funds of 150 million euros or billions and 100 million kunas must be distributed correctly. I agree that a little more resources should be directed towards areas of special state concern, but I am also convinced that this opportunity will not bypass the County of Istria, in particular the City of Buzet. I also want to say that in 15 years, the City of Buzet from the state budget doesn't count on the adaptation of a road that is now under way and the international loan of Betterman, if I'm not mistaken, did not get to say so to a single kuna and it would be the order not to bypass it at this time. I repeat, the sewerage is from the time of Venice, the water was laid in 33, and since then it has not been in that old town's core of larger reconstructions and we rightly hope for concrete help. As for the repayment of the debt, I didn't realize whether the local community should repay the loan. If so, it does not matter because this is about the most favourable assets that can be obtained on the international or domestic market, however. For the end, this arrangement by the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be supported, however, the state must fairly split the money. I said, it is an extremely significant asset, 150 million euros or a billion kuna, and I think that these amounts of many great things can be realised throughout the Republic of Croatia. So, in some ways, the conclusion should be that none of Croatia's counties will be bypassed, I agree that the larger funds should be directed towards the area of special state concern, but this mountain border areas should also not be neglected. IDS votes for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39303	Thank you. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39304	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, building municipal infrastructure isn't just a prerequisite for quality housing, it's also a prerequisite for quality investment. The often question of potential investors relates to construction equipment and is pleasant when they answer that they should only think about connections and not about building a water and sewerage network or access road. Potential residents as well as domestic normal, are interested in what conditions kindergartens, schools, infirmarys, etc. The increase in the number of working zones does not fully monitor the construction of municipal infrastructure because units of local self-government often do not have enough budget to do whatever is necessary. It should also be commended for the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which helps with significant resources but also needs loans for large and expensive infrastructure. Let us remind ourselves that previously approved loans from investment banks were obtained for Croatian railways, the state road network, HBOR was awarded for financing the reconstruction and construction of municipal infrastructure development of tourism, small and medium entrepreneurship, for the road of Rijeka – Zagreb, Croatia air navigation control, the highway recovery project, and for the project of rebuilding municipal infrastructure in areas of special state care or a total of 326 million euros. The current contract, I read this precisely because of what Finance Minister Ivan Shuker signed on 24 December 2004 with the European Investment Bank has an interesting term "Integral Development of the Local Community". The quality of housing, health services and social care, education, culture sport, care for old people, powerless persons, disabled people and child care is included in this title. In environmental protection, the emphasis is on waste management and wastewater problems. The project "Integral development of the local community" is very interesting because it refers to the entire area of the state, except the City of Zagreb and the areas of the island for which other programmes exist. The funds are very large 300m euros, of which 50% or 150m is the loan of the European Investment Bank, and 50% are the funds from the state budget. Borrowers will certainly welcome a start of 5 years and 15 years of payment and must obtain all necessary documentation for normal quality projects at the interval 2005 to 2008. After years and years of renovation, the situation in education and health care is often conditionedly developed areas, so better than conditionally speaking to developed areas of Croatia. In fact, a lot of construction was being built and well that construction in these areas we have a number of new schools, new ambulances, hospitals were restored but in areas I say again more conditionally developed, old school buildings prevailing, old kindergartens, old homes of health, the moss unrenewed and there are still too few sports halls. In these areas, population immigration is higher, and new buildings need to be built. FOR the same reason, the construction of municipal infrastructure needs to be rapidly built because new streets are created, and usually new business facilities are built on the periphery where actually municipal infrastructures often do not exist. The technical description of this project defines and provides under the project the possibility of crediting repairs, upgrades and reconstruction of facilities, which is generally less invested so far. By confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank, by accepting the way in which financial commitments are settled, and by defining the competence of the implementation of the projects, i.e. by adopting this Act, the Parliament will give a green light for the use of this extremely necessary and favourable loan. I'm not surprised that in the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, the fourfold requirement has arrived, rather than the project. Dear MPs and representatives of the project of integrated development of the local community, well designed and eligible for the necessary investments in local self-government units, will be supported by the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39305	Thank you. The HSS Club's esteemed representative, Ante Markov, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39306	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Funding Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank in its name is characterized as the Law says that this international contract has that weight and for the country is a very significant way of negotiating between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank, and for this very reason it has come to the Croatian Parliament to consider it, to see what the positive consequences of such borrowing are and to assess the profitability but also to assess through its control function and manner and efficiency and spending and investment. Of course, it is almost impossible to be against investment in municipal infrastructure or communal component, against investment in the social component, in the environmental component, because all of this in nature represents one infrastructure that needs to produce and create conditions for the economy, for new jobs, to create excess value. It is precisely offered such an approach but what is stated in the very proposal of the law, which is that one of the more important issues proposed to be regulated and which should be regulated by this law are the way in which the Republic of Croatia will comply with the financial obligations it will have after the use of these investment funds and the jurisdiction over the implementation of this project are in the nature of the two basic indicators to be discussed in this Parliament. If we have already predetermined and I think we are that these financial resources are important for the development or integrated development of local self-government, that they are important for strengthening the potential of the Croatian System of Local Self-Government, and thus for the whole country. If we all agreed together that so far these funds have been used in the amount of 326 million more or less for road and rail infrastructure, then, of course, by supporting such a way of borrowing that is favourable from the aspects of measuring the length of return time, moratorium and interest rates, it is good to discuss the efficiency of the investment itself and this assessment behind these possible 300 million euros. I think it would be appropriate, I will not use another word, that if the Head of the Bill on the Confirmation of an International Contract is entitled to be visible from it at least in a certain addition to what he means, which projects and at which areas of the Republic of Croatia are thought to invest these financial resources, what are studies that will convince us that there is a real cost-effectiveness because we are all witnessing that often very good means and quality means through irresponsible behaviour, through bad decisions and poor governance can end up in a way that they are not effective and that the return of these quality funds is very difficult and that someone else will take the role of the one who needs to be returned because, regardless of what these funds belong to a particular communal, social and other infrastructure, these resources should create the possibility that, through the excess values are returned neatly during the return period of return. Because if that doesn't happen, then we haven't fully achieved the goal that we're all up against together. As a result, we in the HSS Club would be far happier and unfortunately we did not get an answer on the board either that we know what specific sub-projects in these three components are related to, to which the premises of the Republic of Croatia are concerned, whether they will try in some area where there is an objectively need for infrastructure planning and to come up with a particular economic activity that will result in the creation of new products, achieve excess values and achieve the role of new employment. At that time, it would be good to consider getting familiar with the content of this bill, to see if this is an example of Slavonia, whether it is part of the Dalmatian Burn, whether it may be Zagorje. What are the areas in which these resources are needed, this injection that needs to stimulate the reasons and create conditions for production or for the creation of new jobs. And this will also enable the function of a better quality of life, a better quality of commitment and the achievement of all those human needs that everyone has. Unfortunately, this large amount of funding that the country is additionally in debt and is in charge of already sufficient and the trends in debt are unfortunately and on the internal agenda almost approached the external responsibility suggests that we are talking about a very serious bill proposal regardless of the assessment that I have given that we are all in favour of our local self-government and our country developing both integratedly and unequivocally and socially. We must also consider this moment and therefore it is very difficult without the elements of what the spending of these funds is and who guarantees that the principle of jurisdiction and the implementation of these funds will be truly effective, fair, social and will be used in this. The debate about what happened if the report was given after a certain time when something had happened is the debate on the consequences of it but we can no longer be arbiters and we can no longer discuss something that we think we should have discussed today and we should have known exactly what individual projects are related to. We should have known what control instruments are, what are the instruments of the competition, how units of local self-government will run under what conditions. Therefore, these open topics talk about the lack of this bill, they say, that we have not been able to get good and favourable conditions on the world financial market until the end of the day that we haven't questioned ourselves in the efficiency of how these very large funds are managed, that we haven't all agreed together where and how we're going to spend these funds because, as I said, we are often witnesses that both the best and the most qualitative financial resources can ultimately end up being problematic in terms of realising the return of what we borrowed. Therefore, as I have said, it is very difficult to be against this bill but I think we rightly expect to get an answer or that this House will reach a conclusion that will create the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report on who the potential users are, what conditions are needed to become users of these funds, in which way a tender for obtaining these funds will be made and who can guarantee the efficiency of the return of the funds invested because I hope that we do not all rely on it always returning the budget and the central state, or citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39307	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39308	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, Secretary of State! You know, these laws are dear to me and I'm always for them and on behalf of the HNS Club PGS I can say in advance we'll support it no matter how well I'm aware that we vote for a cat in a bag. I'll tell you something now. This law weighs 15% of the Carlovac-Split highway. The highway cost 2 billion euros and here is 300m euros. So 15% of the Zagreb-Split highway and you don't really know what you're voting for. You have no guarantee whether it will be spent and what I know in Međimurje or Zagorje County at the border with Slovenia, whether it will be in mountainous and mountainous areas, it will be in the town of Zadar. Why don't I believe that Calmeta and Livakovic are going to invest everything in the city of Zadar, and by this law they can. Well, there's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with that. We just vote for the cat in the bag. And by the way, here we have a colleague of Marks as a witness and Pleška as a witness because I don't see anyone else who was with me on the Tourism Committee when we had this law and after the explanation of certain persons from the Ministry of Finance of this law I asked for a specification of the projects entering this amount. And you know what I got? He was given the Committee on Tourism a specification relating to the CEB programme that was approved, I don't know, a year, two days ago. All the islands are in there. I got it and it says here that the islands can't be. And which is proof that he doesn't know what the left is doing, so I'd be begging if it's possible for me to do it within a certain period because I know it's not possible to know now because the Secretary of State just told me that they're just doing a survey on where these funds are going to be invested. I would ask if it is possible to deliver it and give a deadline when that survey can be completed by the end of this session, so until 15.7. to get one or get to 15.9. It's all the same to me. Just so we know why we voted. Otherwise I say the conditions that are offered here are favourable conditions and if I knew why we vote I would raise both hands, this way we will raise one hand hoping to get that specification within a certain time limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39309	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić. He's not in the hall. Dear Representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39310	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us the Law on the confirmation of the financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank. So the framework multi-sectoral loan for municipal infrastructure for the project "Integral development of the local community". This is actually one of those laws that is said simply cannot be rejected not only because it will significantly raise the standard of living in undeveloped areas and not only in areas of special state concern but also in mountain-mounted border areas, so almost all areas of the Republic of Croatia except in the area of the city of Zagreb and the island, and for islands there are certainly other laws and programmes already being implemented. It is evident that in 2004, negotiations on the loan of the Republic of Croatia amounted to EUR 150 million with the Eurosystem Investment Bank. So for the project created by this government called "Integral Development of the Local Community", we can rightly say that this project is the whole work of this government and perhaps it is the best policy that this government wants to implement in its term. Of course it is fully in line with the declared policy that Croatia is not as strong as the city of Zagreb, but as strong as any part of it is. Of course, any policy is best checked on works and how important this project is best said to be the estimated value of the project 2 billion and 250 million kuna and EUR 300 million, respectively, of which 50% is financed by the long-term loan of the European Investment Bank and 50% from the State budget. It is a major project that is extremely important for the rural and undeveloped part of Croatia as well as for Croatia as a whole. It should well reduce imbalances in the development of certain areas and help create preconditions for sustainable economic and social development. By improving municipal and social infrastructure, availability of health services, education services, culture and sports in undeveloped areas. With all thanks to the Government for this project, I cannot help but remind myself of another still unresolved problem of building municipal infrastructure in areas of special state concern. It is about water lines built after "Storm" in the freed areas of the Croatian Bank's refurbishment loans and loans to the World Bank. The government's decision, and probably this Parliament's, that unit of local self-government that the waterways built with World Bank loans, was freed from repaying loans, or loans, was taken over and returned by the state. While those units of local self-government that have been building on HABOR loans should repay loans which I really hold illogical as if these units of local self-government were able to choose loans and if they could choose then it is certain that they would choose World Bank loans that they would not return, not HABOR to repay. So there is evidence that the units of local self-government at the time were not in an equal position. And if we add that Croatia's waters were actually the ones that participated in the investment with 30%, but they were also, they were running all the business around, about the construction of water lines and loans. We had promises from both of the former governments that this would be resolved and that the state would return and take over on itself, however, it did not happen because in both the first and second cases, everything was difficult until the mandate expired, and then in every government, and thus today, these units of local self-government would start from the beginning to convince the ministries and all that it was neither fair nor fair to free one unit from return, and the other, others, to assign others to orderly. Here you should understand that for now lenders, loans are fully serviced by Croatian waters and are properly in charge of local self-government units where the water lines are built. But I don't know a single unit of local self - government in a free area that is capable of returning these loans by itself today. In fact, isn't it strange that now many units of local self-government that are not in the area of special state care will build a communal infrastructure for free? And those who immediately after the Storm created return conditions will repay your loans. It proves that we're not all equal, and it has to be fixed, and I'm holding, maybe this is the right time to correct that injustice. I appeal to the Government State Secretary and to you in your Ministry that here as the third government solves this problem and removes the weight around the necks of those units who can't solve this problem themselves anyway. So let this government be the third, third luck they say. Otherwise, I believe that what is going to happen with the implementation of the project "Integral Development of the Local Community" is actually going to be great and I believe that many of the environments will use it artificially for the better life of their citizens and the overall development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39311	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39312	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am joining that group, and I believe that the largest majority of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament to confirm the financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank are related to the project "Integral development of the local community". I am particularly pleased that the units that, the units of local self-government that were the most injured during the Homeland War, I am thinking primarily of cities and municipalities from the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, but also of other parts of the Republic of Croatia, will be able to finance projects of local importance from this loan. According to counterpart Rebic, the units of local self-government who had the misfortune that they had been occupied during the Homeland War, that the process of return and reconstruction lasted for many years, that during the reconstruction, a significant part of the infrastructure that was not destroyed during the war was destroyed. Such units of local self-government do not have their own original income from which they can finance neither the renewal or the construction of foot-and-mouth disease or the construction of unclassified roads, which are within the jurisdiction of the municipality, nor the restoration of public water supply systems, nor the kindergartens and other needs that every unit of local self-government needs to build on its own space, but unfortunately there is no sufficiently powerful budget to cover all the needs of residents living in the area. This is why projects that will be financed among other things and from the loans from the European Investment Bank, where the State will also help significantly to provide funds for the implementation of those projects. Of course, which will run, which will receive a passing grade, will help to the greatest extent to create basic conditions for the survival of people in the rural part of the Republic of Croatia because a large number of unfortunately citizens living in very poor conditions and a large number of citizens from the eastern part of Croatia, Vukovar-Srijem and other counties want to look for their future in large cities, organized cities, and I wonder in the end whether everything we have done during the Homeland War will also be of benefit during the reconstruction and return process unless we create optimal conditions for life and those areas that have suffered the most during the Homeland War. No matter... I expect that most of this loan will be used by local self-government units in areas of special state concern. [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]] And here I especially appeal and ask the representatives of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Reconstruction and Development and Transport to take special care in the realisation of these funds on units of local self-government that can't really have and have no original income, and they need to solve infrastructure operations from this very part of the means, which will contribute to the improvement of citizens living in difficult, very difficult conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39313	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39314	Mr. Clem, and Mr. Rebic was talking about something I don't know what they were talking about. They talk about local units, about cities, about municipalities that will get that money, but they didn't mention any names. So I don't know if we're talking about the same law? It seems to me that we speak some strange language. I don't know any name from this law, from all these materials except that I got from the Ministry of Finance, and certainly what it isn't, and I'm told it is. And now, I'm no longer sure, it may be that this loan is raised by the government to spend everything in Slavonia and return the Glavas to the party. That's probably the reason. If we don't know what this is about. So, I want to say something. This law and this ignorance of where it goes allows great manipulation of that money Yeah, me too, that seems very strange to me, not to say that it can happen, because nothing's prepared, that we're paying for the engagement of the funds, and we're not actually using it. [[That's right, that's right.]] That could happen, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39315	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, units of local self-government, and so did the municipalities from which I came, provided among other things to the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and the development of certain requirements. Those units of local self-government, some local self-government units already have prepared projects, but have no funds, no original funds to finance these projects. That is why there is also a great need in the units of local self-government in eastern Croatia, I am speaking from the eastern part of Croatia because I am a representative from that area and I know what the situation in the municipalities that have been affected by the war and I know and I assure you that almost certainly from their own, original incomes, the local self-government unit cannot build the necessary infrastructure without the help of the state, among other things and without such projects as the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development called the integrated development of the local community. And here I see with one good assessment of the situation on the ground and knowledge of the situation and the budget, and all the data the Ministry can get, there see one good opportunity to balance and develop through this loan and build that infrastructure that is needed in other parts of the local self-government units, and not only in those who can build much from their own incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39317	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39318	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. All the participants in the debate whether they spoke on behalf of the clubs or in an individual debate supported the conclusion of this contract. Of course I support him, too. It is simply because of the quality of the funds that the Croatian Government, i.e. the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the sea, tourism, development, reconstruction, I do not know exactly what it is called now, which makes it available to finance municipal infrastructure, social infrastructure, infrastructure in the area of environmental protection. The Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development carried out, of course, along with the local community, a series of projects aimed at implementing reconstruction, infrastructure building programmes, particularly in areas of special state concern. Of course, despite the considerable resources that have been allocated in these areas and for these areas, they are far from met the needs that I say remain in these areas in these segments that we are talking about. Here we see also in some way the additional needs that are particularly highlighted by those colleagues who come from other units of local self-government and, of course, those who are not the area of special public concern, of course it is legitimate demands and I believe that these funds will be the total value of projects of 300 million euros, they will also find certain projects from these areas. However, I do believe that priority must be to help cities and municipalities in the area of special state care, mountain-mounted areas and border areas towards the Republic of Slovenia. And it stands here, of course, because other programmes are foreseen, the City of Zagreb and the islands are not in this programme. At first I said that this is really a quality credit arrangement, a period of return and a time of credit 20 years with a 5-year grace period is simply something that can't be rejected. The use of loan funds shall be provided immediately after the financing contract has entered into force and therefore it is necessary to adopt it by emergency procedure in order to be able to withdraw these funds as quickly as possible. Finally, I would just like to emphasise perhaps two critical moments which, based on my experience, I can say where I am afraid that the state of the project documentation for a series of projects for such a large amount of credit, is more perhaps in the phase of the wishes expressed than in the process of almost almost being able to approach the construction of certain municipal infrastructures immediately, and I hold that attention and that this procedure should be accelerated if this is not over. Another thing of these 300m euros, the total value of the projects that the agreement will make possible to realise 150m euros is the European Investment Bank's funds, and the other 150m euros, if I understand correctly, would be the funds of the state budget of the units of local self-government. Since co-financing of local self-government units is expected, of course smaller units in the field of special state care, I think that also limiting the element or difficulty will be this possibility of co-financing because it is mainly local self-government units that have small budgets and very big needs. For all of this and for one and for the other, I think that the Ministry will indeed have to take good care of the dynamics of spending or withdrawing these funds because even in mid-2008 this total amount of credit will come very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39319	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39320	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. In front of us, the proposal for a law on the validation of the financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank is an indicative multi-sector loan for the municipal infrastructure for the project "Integral development of local self-government with the final proposal of the law". The loan of the European Investment Bank, which is on the agenda today, is not the first loan made by the State of Croatia with this independent investment bank. The European Investment Bank's cooperation with Croatia is since 1995 and has been implemented through this investment fund 7 loans for different projects totalling 326m euros, 40m euros for Croatian railways, 60m euros for Croatian roads, 10m euros for HBOR, 36m under two contracts with business banks, 60m euros for Rijeka highway – Zagreb, and for the construction of the Vrbovska-Vukova gorica stock, 20m euros for Croatian air navigation control, 50m euros for the project of highway rehabilitation in the Republic of Croatia and 50m euros for the project of rebuilding the municipal infrastructure in areas of special state care. The approval of this loan for infrastructure in areas of special state care and mountain-mounted areas is a sign of the creditworthiness of the Republic of Croatia and of the trust this investment house has in the state of Croatia. This favourable loan for municipal infrastructure will certainly contribute to the construction of infrastructure, from water supply, disposal, electrification, unclassified roads etc. Then there is building facilities related to social care such as homes for older and powerless, kindergartens, schools, school sports halls, health homes, museums, libraries and similar facilities. There is also the financing of environmental protection facilities such as waste dumps and waste recycling facilities. All these projects should be nominated by units of local self-government, so all newly elected leaders of local self-government units from areas of special state concern, and mountain and mountainous areas will be able to demonstrate their ability to design projects that can be run on the basis of this loan. In this way, the Croatian government promotes a balanced development of all parts of Croatia and shows its intention to develop its undeveloped parts. I support and welcome this approach because Croatia will be developed to the extent that all its regions are developed and this loan will certainly contribute to this. We are witnessing these days how after the opening of the entire Split highway section – Zagreb will contribute to the even development of our homeland, especially Dalmatia and Like, which are now opening towards the rest of Croatia, and already today there is progress in these areas in all segments of life. This project will be implemented through projects that will therefore nominate local self-government units in areas of special state concern and mountain-mounted areas. The estimated value of the project is 2 billion and 250 million kuna and 300 million euros, of which 50% will be financed by this loan and 50% by the Croatian budget. In addition to the appropriations and resources of this loan, units of local self-government are provided to participate with their financial resources. And finally, I support this bill and I believe that the loan will be used in the right way and for concrete projects, and that it will encourage the development of units of local self-government that will use these favourable financial resources in this way to solve their basic municipal problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39321	Thank you. Final State Secretary Livaković please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39322	Here's just a few final sentences, I'm glad everyone is more or less in agreement that this loan is actually great, that they're great credit conditions. It is logical that the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development is the one coordinating, or implementing agency for the implementation of this loan because, in our jurisdiction, regional development is already one similar loan of 50 million euros, which has been realised with the European Investment Bank, which has been very successful in the areas of special state care, and to the general satisfaction of all users of such loans. The ministry will normally coordinate with other ministries as it did in the first instance, but perhaps a little bit to clarify about contact with local self-government, the Ministry has already sent an inquiry where each unit of local self-government, except for the island and the city of Zagreb, has received a memo explaining the uses of these funds, and each of them has been given the task of saying that it offers 3 projects in its area of nomination. There are approximately 3 to 4 times more financial requirements than there are these funds, although these funds are large, so in the next period one selection will be made which projects are or are not envisaged by this way of funding and to note, 150 million euros is a loan, 150 million euros are state budget funds and is possible for local self-government to co-finance additionally with the need for co-financing, i.e. co-financing is not required, while in the areas of the specific state care of the third group, mountain and border areas requires co-financing up to 20%. And for all other areas that don't belong to these categories up to 40%. Let me get this straight. In any case, we have prepared these requirements, their processing is under way, and I think that we will be transparent enough for the general satisfaction of all municipalities and cities to spend these funds and finally have one amendment to the Technical Nature Legislatives Committee and can be accepted as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39323	Thank you. With this, we have concluded the debate on this item of the agenda, and the vote will come after the conditions are met and the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39324	Thirdly, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank, the Framework Multi-Sectoral Loan for Community Infrastructure for the Project "Integral Development of the Local Community". The proposer accepted the amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 103 votes in favour and 3 abstentions of the proposed Law, together with the amendment adopted. We have one proposal for a conclusion on this Act, the Club of Representatives of the HSS, which reads: "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare and deliver within 90 days to the Croatian Parliament an accurate specification of the projects and programmes provided for by this Act with the exact amounts of funds and content of all projects". Is there a representative of the government who can be seen on this proposal for a conclusion? Mr. Bištević? Ministry number two. I am voting on this conclusion of the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. Please engage. You can vote. The result? 44 for, 4 abstentions, 53 against. The conclusion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39325	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of judges of the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal was submitted by the Ministry of Justice in accordance with Article 70. Court law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39326	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! The SDP Club proposes that this proposal be returned to work because it contains serious shortcomings which the Croatian Parliament is serious about, I would say, seriously, which should be the state body in the Republic of Croatia cannot discuss in this way. There we even have such a weakness that we suggest a person who doesn't have her first name, a personal name. He only has a family name. So that's how far they go, that we're not saying that the other data isn't filled, but we don't even know the name. All right, we can assume that this is about one slip, but anyway, we here appoint an individual person so as judges of the High Court of Commerce on a proposal from the Minister and in the opinion of the President of the Trade Court. I may personally, or the SDP Club, have nothing against either of these individuals individually. But let's be a little critical. The point of the jury is just the participation of the citizens in the trial. If we see what these names are to the Croatian public well-known names that always revolve around somewhere in the circle, or on some committee, working body, here are teachers, judges retired. I don't mind it being an exception sometimes, and it's even necessary as highly professional people so that even as jurors participate in such a way in the trial, in the work, of the High Court of Commerce but here it's without exception rule and it's something that's not good. It's something that's not good for the very concept of such a jury trial, or a sitting trial, which, with judges, also has jurors. So, the sense of jury just got lost. In addition, it is a trade court, the High Commercial Court where people from the world of work are certainly desirable, concrete work, one that is direct, not only intellectual. We don't have such ones here, and that's one serious objection, and I think that these are the same criteria we should take into account, and not only the criteria of representation in the counties that are also not respected because we see here, specifically from Zadar-Knin County, we have only one proposal. But the same small injustices are found in other counties. However, there is also a proposal which, in our opinion, cannot survive because it is incompatible, it is incompatible with the functions of the trial, even if it is a jury because the jury also has all the duties and powers of the judge, as well as the professional judge, so that the public official can perform the functions at the same time and, in a specific case, the proposal also states. So, for all of these reasons, and especially because he's missing and in this formal sense that we would vote here on people we don't even know who he's talking about because he's only listed his last name to go back to the correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39327	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the agenda point. The vote will come later. We're moving to agenda six. Six. Proposal for a Decision appointing the President, Vice-President and Members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War The proposal for a decision and amendment of the proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 12. Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee, you received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? President of the War Veterans Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! At its 14th session on 28 and 29 June, the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a decision to appoint a president, vice-president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War and to amend the proposal submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to acts from 20 May, 2 June and 9 June 2005. The Committee held the hearing as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In a brief discussion, the members of the Committee expressed their dissatisfaction with the fact that, despite the fact that the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War entered into force on 24 December 2004 and the disagreement over the procedure of proposing members of the Governing Council, the centre has not yet begun work. An interim director has been appointed but with the appointment of the Governing Council more than four months later, knowing that it should be appointed within two months of the entry into force of the law. It is also necessary in the national budget to provide for financial resources for the work of the centre. The importance of a more rapid appointment of the Management Board of the Centre is highlighted and that what takes place as soon as possible with the realization of its tasks as prescribed in Article 13 of the Law. After the debate was held, the committee reached the following conclusion by majority: - It is proposed to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the appointment of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39330	Thank you. I'm opening a club debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39331	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! The first thing I have to say on behalf of the Croatian Party Club is that we rightists in the full sense of that word can say that we are the idea and real beginners of the establishment of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre from the Homeland War. Unfortunately, I have to say what we said when we passed this law in December last year that what we warned would happen. The law has been passed but it is evident that there is no will for its implementation and that it is also so obvious that we are now just getting this proposal on the appointment of the president, vice president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. According to the law, this was to be done within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law and the law came into force in December last year. And now what do we have out of all this? We have a law and a temporary director. But we don't have anything else. And when something is set up, it's the same question. So this was pretty unserious from the government's point of view, too. She sent three different appointment proposals, meaning 23 May, 23 June and 9 June this year. This is all about one unserious approach and whatever Mr. Sanader boasts about yesterday in Israel that the government is the beginner of this centre and that when he was in Israel, how we would do it all and even the museum but everything that has been done in this area so far is really sad and we have gotten the impression that everything is done on purpose that this is non-functioning and that we finally get what Croatia deserves. And on the other hand, we have two people like Paula Vranican and Ivica Punja who have done far more in this area about collecting documentation and everything else. You yourself know that they have made their own means, so volunteer these four films Amarkolt 1 and 2, neighbours 1 and 2 and these films now serve as the main means of proof in the process against Slobodan Milosevic. So let's put people like that in the Administrative Council, let's put people like that on a team that's going to work that we finally have something that doesn't happen to us because this is a really embarrassing event for us. So we have the law, we haven't done anything, and what we said will happen. It will be all this year that nothing will be done, and we ourselves know the situation that no one in this country is essentially taking care of any charges or those in The Hague, and that in one place it is doing it strategically and everything, so if we thought that the center should do it. I therefore call on the government on behalf of the Croatian Party Club to take this part of its tasks responsibly because it only has a temporary director, nothing else, it will eventually continue to happen and therefore a good thing again, a good idea will go into oblivion, and Croatia has more and more problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39332	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39333	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Here are the names: Mirko Valentić born in Banja Luka in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Nikica Barić born in Zagreb, Dinko Kutura born in Mostar, BiH... What's the old proposal? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I have this proposal, now I don't know. ... Well, look at it this way, Juraj Njavro. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] in Cerovica, BiH, Krešimir Rasan born in Zagreb, Davor Marijan, born in Priluca, BiH, Branko Kaleb from Metkovic, and now who says we are neglecting the personnel of Bosnia and Herzegovina? [[Intruder: Silence!]] Well, I don't have anything against any gentlemen, for example Juraj Njavru, whom I had the opportunity to personally meet in these benches, I greatly appreciate. But I'm afraid some individuals were moving in a very slippery area. For example, Nikica Baric, it seems that this man gentlemen is fascinated by NDH and I want to believe that this area was dealt with extremely objectively and that there is nothing controversial about his works. But here he is, here to read only the works he worked on. The establishment of the Land Army, the homestead of the Independent State of Croatia, the Railway Transport and its protection in NDH, the establishment and operation of the NDH administration in some parts of Dalmatia, the Pučko-Ustava choir of General Mecgelj. That's how you read Kovacevic, isn't it? And a global defense in NDH at the end of World War II. General August Maric, the résumé of a Croatian officer. Then let's move on, Armed Forces Relations of the Third Reich of the Independent State of Croatia. It's 1995. Croatia commits ethnic cleansing of Serbs? The position of the Croatian population in Banovina during Republika Srpska, Nada Kisic-Kolanović, Mladen Lorkovic, Minister of Conspiracy, Assessments and Displays. Then the writing of the Evening List, he wrote, about Croatian-Muslim relations, March 1992, March 1994. Works of Croatian History Institute,29, Zagreb, 1996. I can think of what it's written about and so on. I don't go into those acts, nor have I had a chance to read them. But just so someone doesn't deal with it outside of this assembly, that those praises of Vladimir Seks's speech he gave 22.6. in Sisak on the day of the anti-fascist uprising fall into the water all of a sudden. Mr. Dinko Cutura It's old. [[Well, that's old.]] Okay, I don't know which one anymore, then I won't talk about it anymore, but I guess Nikica Baric is in the new proposal, right? It is. So it is. So it is. So, gentlemen, it wouldn't happen if someone started to analyze those writings and then the appointment just came into question. It means that the next day someone is challenging the candidates and that the Memorial Centre itself, according to the IDS Club, was supposed to be in Vukovar, not in Zagreb. Vukovar is a city of famine, Vukovar is a city of hero. In Zagreb, we have an unemployment rate of 7.9%. In Vukovar, over 40% and I don't know, the next day possible 15th and 20 jobs in Vukovar would be as big as a house for the city, and this centre would rather be a contribution to an additional, under quotes, metropolis of the Republic of Croatia than a real study of opportunities that we associate with the Homeland War in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And if his headquarters were on the other side of Vukovar, I would dare say it was a contribution to one regional development and even more thanks to Vukovar for the sacrifice he gave to all of Croatia. And where there was no clear war, the contribution was not small. They also received exiles in Čakovec and Varazdin, both in Zagreb and Opatija. It is through Istria, over 100,000 refugees went through Istria in one day in 1992, 1993. There were more than 50,000 refugees in that space, which are exiles, but it's certainly all incomparable to Vukovar and that center had to find a place in the opinion of the IDS Club, the IDS Club right in that city. We'll vote for this proposal, but if someone in this debate doesn't convince us otherwise, but we're expressing a skepticism that this appointment of gentlemen won't go away without a recall. I note that we have not dealt with, read, read, I don't know, these articles, reviews, shows and so on, some candidates, but we are afraid that someone from the Croatian public will take care of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39334	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39335	Mr. Vice-President Cain, with his CV, did not, he does not want to revive the Independent State of Croatia and its history. If someone is a historian and if someone is a scientist he studies history and the real state of that time no matter what. So the history of the Croatian people belongs to both Bleiburg and the history of the Croatian people belongs to Jasenovac. Both sides, however positive or negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39336	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Frano Piploić. He's not in the hall. Loses the right to debate On behalf of the HSP Club 5 minutes tonci Tadic. [[And that's enough of your Partisanism.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39337	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Back in 1999, when we proposed the establishment of the Croatian Memorial Centre, we failed because then the ruling coalition, the HDZ did not support us. When we tried to do it in 2000, it didn't work out either. It was only in 2004 that we succeeded, and we are glad that Croatia finally received an institution that it had to form in our court long ago. The meaning of the existence of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre is this: on the one hand and we talked about it all these years, to form documentation about the Homeland War. For example, gather into one place all the war logs of all our military units, all their flags, all their documentation that is now scattered everywhere. Some of them were disbanded after operations in 1995 but they make up a valuable part of the newer history of the Croatian people. But even more important is the role of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, and that was our basic motive, and it is an even more important role to make accurate records of the victims, and because each victim is a great Serb crime, every victim is a person. Each man killed by large Serb troops was a person with a full name and name, with his love, with his career, with his family, with the place and circumstances of the death. And if we had such a Croatian memory-documentation centre, that such a database existed, I believe that the position of our officers in The Hague would have been even better. These were the motives with which HSP had already gone and the procedure, unfortunately they were all arguments that none of the ruling furniture had accepted recently. We are pleased that the Centre was finally formed, but Mr. Minister, if the Law was passed, and it was passed last year in the first reading as an HSP proposal in the second reading as a proposal from your government and your ministry, which we do not dispute, let us bring it in. We do not understand why no money was found in the budget for this year for the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre. So, we had an institution, we swore we needed it, but apart from the Law, there was nothing. And neither is the budget division. That's why the HSP Club thinks it's a priority job for both your ministry and this team to run the Memorial Documentation Centre to make their statutes and their work plan as soon as possible. That in next year's budget for their division, they have money to start the job. Years have passed already 10 years since "Storm", 14 years since the first mass crimes committed by the great Serbs in aggression against Croatia. It's time to finally begin to archive in one place. We don't have time, and it's a shame that so much time has been executed since the law was passed to this day. So we support this composition first of all by not entering the biographies of individual members, first of all, to finally start working on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39338	Thank you. Final review, Culture Minister Bozo Biskupic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39339	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I would just like to explain when the word was first on several occasions it was found that no funds were provided. You voted, you raised your hand. I made it very clear that 2 million kunas were secured within the budget for this Memorial centre. The funds are also being spent by the Memorial center since it is now within the framework and jointly co-operates with the State Archives within the State Archives. It gathers all the time, but at the very time of the Homeland War, after the Homeland War, it gathers today. So it's in that part of it that it's not working, it's working. It's true, your objection is fine that we needed two months earlier. We have finished our work now, will continue to work as soon as the Parliament has reached this decision on the appointment of members of the Governing Council, but it is not true that nothing has been done so far and it is not true that the money has not been supplied. For this year, 2 million kunas were secured by being told as much as necessary and more, the Ministry of Culture will provide over the year and more funding. Therefore, as for individual biographies, individual scientists and younger ones, as counterpart Zdenka said, correctly, it is necessary to read those books first. It is, in fact, the case of Mr Barić, a young scientist, a teacher at Croatian Studies, whose articles you have read are scientific papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39340	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President, Vice-President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 79 votes in favour, 24 abstentions and 1 against a decision on the appointment of the President, Vice-President and members of the Board of Directors of this Centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39345	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is a real shame that there is no one from the Croatian government, but we believe that tomorrow we will be able to hear their point of view as well. I believe they are interested in this topic because this topic is interested not only in the citizens of the City of Hvar, where one model of private capital and private management is being tested again, but also in the rest of the Croatian state. Namely, it is known that the public-private partnership also wants to be applied to hotels within the Adriatic Club, which are all former military resorts. But also in PICs, and we have recently seen in the paper articles on how public-private partnerships are intended to be applied to certain municipal activities, such as water supply or disposal, waste management and so on. The attempt to privatise Sunny Hvar in 2003 caused a number of doubts at the time, first because the Sunny Hvar and the City of Hvar were in some way embodied by the notion of Croatian tourism. A model of privatisation was then tested on Sunny Hvar. We are afraid that today on Sunny Hvar, the model of public-private partnership is being tested again. So to conduct an experiment, but we don't want Sunny Hvar to be an example, to be an experiment for a public-private partnership, but we want it to be a school example. However, what is crucial for us as the promoters of this proposal is the fact that there is no legal foothold for a public-private partnership in Croatia, the Law on Public-private Partnership in Croatia, therefore, does not exist. Ireland, for example, has it, most of the countries in the European Union that apply public-private partnerships have laws on this. Croatia is therefore going to the project in Sunny Hvar and these other projects without law. We have here a competition from Free Dalmatia transferred, gathering offers for a public-private partnership, and if you read this header up here and this whole text is mentioned various government conclusions, mentioning various documents, but nowhere mentions any law on which the Government and the Privatisation Fund are called when they enter this serious business. It's not meaningless. Namely, a public-private partnership means a contractual relationship between a state and a private partner that can include a significant million, 10 million assets that can be a business risk for the state, which can lead to permanent economic damage in some earlier activity, and we ladies and gentlemen have no legal framework at all that would allow the basis of this law to call a tender. To choose the best bidder based on the law, to build a contract with the best bidder, to ensure that the contract is followed by the law and that the basis of the law ensures the termination of the contract and compensation for the State if the private partner cheats on the state, either by not investing, or by starting to act beyond what he has agreed. So, all we're asking as proposing is that the government makes or the Public Private Partnership Act, which can, with... law and prescribe it, or at least subscribe to the Parliament guidelines for the conclusion of a public partnership contract in Croatia that the Parliament would then adopt and which would have legal power. So all we want are clear rules of the game on public private partnership, nothing more. So, we want and insist that this entire procedure is to publish tenders, define public interest, conclude contracts based on this public interest, which must be indicated in the contract to be protected, follow-up of the contract, end of the contract if there is damage to the state with the implementation of the public private partnership that the whole procedure is regulated with good legislation. What I would like to mention here in particular is the difference between privatisation and a public private partnership, or why a public private partnership cannot be subdued under Article 6. Privatisation Act, Article 6. The Privatisation Act of the same 96th law states that shares of the company are sold either by public tender or on the stock market and no other way. Privatisation means, therefore, the entry of a new private owner into a state-owned company or some state-owned business, so that the new owner leads the company in line with his private interest, not in line with the public interest and because the company has become his private property. On the side of the fact that the privatisation law does not say who and how it monitors the implementation of the privatisation contract, nor does it say what happens to those who deprive the state in the implementation of the Privatisation Treaty, such as that guy in Primosten who said he would not take a mortgage for the first three years and that he would pay all debts from his money, and that he would still take the mortgage and pay all debts on the hotel mortgage and not invest anything. So, aside from the fact that we in the Privatisation Act have not solved this monitoring, but here we are in an even bigger problem we do not have any legal regulations that enables the tendering and clear rules of the game when entering into a contract and controlling a private partner because in a public private partnership the company does not become private property, it remains in the majority public ownership so state or local, and only the company enters private management with private capital to run that company during a public private partnership in accordance with public interest and not in accordance with its private interest. That's a huge difference. In privatization, the company becomes private and is conducted in accordance with private interest, not according to the city's interest, and I know what, in the case of a public private partnership, the company remains in majority state ownership and the new private private management with private capital leads to a public interest that must be protected by the contract. Now the other thing is what looks like a deal with Orca in sunny Hvar is a special story about what is in that contract, if believing those who saw it were actually protecting a private investor, and not a public interest, it is a special story that the Treaty does not specify the public interest that this contract must protect, so the specific story is that it is a complete contract, not only that it is committed by law, because there is no law at all, but what is done and beyond the European Union's green paper on public private partnership. So, to remind a little of history, public private partnership has existed since the Roman Empire, since the Roman era, the Roman Senate has been aware that it can't provide state services for a whole series of jobs, from tax collection to road construction, onion construction, construction of public baths, construction of an acre of ducats, collection of waste etc. For this purpose, the Roman Senate allowed the company, which was called the Publics, so private entrepreneurs who provided public services, were called the public, and these audiences made a contract with the Roman Senate, on doing some of the public affairs, for example for the construction of the port in Ostia, for the construction of amphitheaters, for the construction of water pipelines and so on. Of course, even for tax collection if the Roman governor wasn't able to do it himself. However, in all those situations where there was no effective control by the local authorities, therefore, the Roman Ammunication in a city, or the Roman Governor of the Roman Senate, would have started to behave like any entrepreneur, so he would have taken care of his own private interest and not of the public interest, on the side that he would then do sparring partner work to the lions, in the arena after he got his hands on it, but that model still worked. From this we can draw out an important message, so it is possible to do public work if a privateer is engaged to do so but only in case there are clear contractual relations. The public private partnership appears later in the 16th and 17th centuries, then in the 19th centuries in Europe, and for us, the most important thing is that it appears practically in all the countries of the European Union after 90th, France was the first to introduce it, then Spain and Portugal, and then Great Britain in 92nd, then Ireland, the Netherlands, Germany, Italy, Belgium, Greece and all Scandinavian countries, and we believe that it will spread in others, I know that the Czechs are doing something about it. But what is particularly interesting is that Ireland, the Netherlands, Germany and Italy within their governments have created an even special working group that should advise local self-government on how to enter public private partnership projects, i.e. a working group that advises ministries on how to enter public private partnership projects at country level. It means it's a phenomenon that's spreading. The European Commission has decided to make green paper on public private partnership which, without reading the whole document now, defines public private partnership in two ways. So it divides the two models that appear. This is what is based on contractual obligations, so actually a public private partnership that could translate into a concession, that someone is concessioning a private company to do some public work. The second is a public private partnership of institutional nature when a new company is created in the joint investment of state and private partner and local self-government and private partner, which then takes over some public work. In both cases, it is the public partner who takes the initiative, the public partner who draws up plans, a public partner, so it is the state that chooses its own private partner and it is he who retains control over the implementation of the public private partnership. It is, of course, a private partner who takes on business risks, and contracts are written to protect a public partner rather than a private partner. It is possible, of course, and it is allowed by the directive in the European Union to negotiate with a private partner on how best to conclude a contract or what the objectives are, but these objectives must be defined. What is interesting for us as a country where a public private partnership is used for the first time is that what attracts public attention in the European Union countries far more than the business of a private company or the business of a state firm simply because people know that there is an interaction of private and state-owned, that conflict of interest is possible, that it is possible for the state to do harm, that money laundering is possible and so on. And that is why everyone is unusually interested in this and, therefore, the full transparency of competitions and the full public of contracts is crucial in all European Union countries. That is unfortunately not the case in Croatia as far as the contract is concerned. I repeat, you can't win the Treaty of Sunny Hvar with the Orc. What are the advantages of a public-private partnership? The advantage is that unlike traditional state entrepreneurship, it creates a more efficient economic system in the long term simply because it uses private management that is not prone to rely on the state and the state budget when the company is in difficulty rather than trying to improve the efficiency of the business itself. The private sector is the one that invests its private capital and wants to benefit from it. The public private partnership is also positive for optimal risk sharing. The risk of planning, designing, implementation, management, the risk of business is borne by a private partner and the state bears only political risk. So how to explain and how to find out what public interest is, how to explain that it is precisely a public interest, how that public interest is provided in the contract, how to protect this public interest by monitoring a private partner. It is a risk borne by the state but the state must not, as in the case of Sunny Hvar, pass that risk on to the town of Hvar, to the church, to the owners of the nationalised houses and realize that if you do not make a favourable contract with Orco that then Orco is not obliged to invest. Public private partnership means the return of the state to its basic functions, i.e. the representation of citizens and the management of state services transferred to the public sector. The lack of a public private partnership is primarily the fact that it is of course an explosive topic for the state, so it is expected that the Privatisation Fund will hide all the details of the contract. Secondly, there is a real danger that is happening to the European Union countries to choose a private partner who offers the biggest investment regardless of whether they are real or not. For example, the difference between the offer coming from Croatia, which was more modest than Orc which was megalomaniacally chosen, despite the fact that it is not entirely certain whether it will be realised in the right way. But what is crucial is that no matter how much investment the risk of business must be borne by a private partner, it must guarantee that it will protect public interest during work. Therefore, these business risks are changing but must be borne independently by a private partner. This means that the state must define the public interest precisely, that it must define the responsibilities of the contract correctly, define the phases and define exactly how to monitor the implementation. Therefore, the government must never lose sight of its primary task, which is to serve the public interest. It can and should be supervised by the concessionaire, it can and should request a deposit as other countries do when it comes to public private partnership if there is a possibility of a contract being executed but it is crucial that it is possible that the private partner starts acting exclusively in accordance with his private interest rather than in accordance with this declared public interest, that the Government must be able to terminate the contract at the expense of the private partner who tried to cheat the state. For all these reasons, taking into account all these elements that can be read from European Union documents, this green paper and how public private partnerships have been concluded in the countries of the European Union. From the real dangers that stand before Croatia we insist that the Government finally write guidelines for a public private partnership and that these guidelines are approved by the Assembly to know the clear rules of the game both in Sunčan Hvar and elsewhere because without it it is simply a very financial and business dangerous game for both the Croatian state and the companies we privatise and the cities in which they are dominant. To all this, together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we as proposing have received a reply to not one page of text in which the Government and the Fund find it exactly what we are looking for but be careful that they keep an eye on it when they conclude contracts and that there is no need for a special law or special guidelines in the light of any decisions that the Parliament would confirm. So we're aware there's a danger, but we won't take care of it. This means that from contract to contract, from partner to partner, we will adjust strategically, and we will change the rules of the game depending on who our partner is. Look out, that's not how it works. This is not simply because everyone else who had already dealt with this model of entering private capital into public firms has seen it, and that is why everyone insisted on making clear guidelines or even the law as Ireland did. So these are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for which we insist that the Republic of Croatia act in a similar way and to adopt either the law or at least as we are looking here for guidelines on the conclusion of a public private partnership agreement which would then be confirmed by the Croatian Parliament and which would thus gain legal power and become binding on the conclusion of a public private partnership agreement. I repeat, first of all, to protect the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39346	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs want the Committee on Tourism, the Economy, Development and Reconstruction? No, I don't. Another club representative could be heard. SDP club respected representative Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39347	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to say that the SDP Club supports the proposal for a conclusion by the HSP Club on guidelines for the conclusion of a public private partnership agreement. We would also like to make a contribution to the definition of a little quality perhaps of this conclusion so that it would best correspond to Croatia's economic development, as also told by counterpart Tonci Tadic. At the beginning, I would say that the Republic of Croatia has defined itself as a market economy, i.e. to build a market mechanism, a mechanism that deploys and employs production resources in the most efficient way in a way that results in the highest employment, production, added value and finally higher standard for citizens. It is therefore a priority to develop and develop market mechanisms. However, in certain parts of the economy, market mechanisms cannot function effectively for various reasons, which is why other mechanisms, allocations or resource employment are not developed in these areas of the economy where there are no conditions for the perfect functioning of the market. We in the economy say that the market is the first best solution to allocation of resources. If there are no conditions for the functioning of the market then access to another best solution, usually as popular as it is called "second B-solution" as we all want to be English. One of the other best solutions is public private partnership agreements. Of course, where the market doesn't work. In the opening, opening explanation, the Proposer cited the example of "Sunish Hvar" and says there: which should not be a self-examination example, but it should be a school example of a public-private partnership. Now we don't know if that general contract is, belongs to that group. This claim could hardly be defended because, at present, in the presentation of counterpart Tonchi, it was also refuted in this part because the product or service produced by Sunni Hvar is a subject of competition and since only Sunčani Hvar is the subject of capital market trading is then the first and best solution for this company's market solution. Any other solution from an economic point of view is a worse solution and so on and if it is a public-private partnership. As a result, Sunny Hvar could not be an example and would not be an example. It will be at the end of privatisation which must not be a public-private partnership contract. A public-private partnership shall be negotiated in cases where, without State participation, the private sector is not interested in production. He's not interested in the inability to make a profit. On the other hand, the state must provide infrastructure facilities and services, public services without which economic and social life cannot take place. In addition, infrastructure facilities and services require design, design, financing, monitoring, maintenance, control and so on. All these functions are acquired in quality with the private partner used by the State to increase the quality of these facilities or services, in every respect both project and financial and implementation and maintenance, and so on. The example that Tonchi is often on today, on which he based his proposal to Sunny Hvar, the efficiency and profitability of Sunny Hvar, is achieved even without state, and therefore it is not needed here as a partner. The state only had to assess the real potential value of Sunny Hvar, and I fear that through this call a public-private partnership contract related to Sunny Hvar, Sunny Hvar will be privatized far below the potential value of Sunny Hvar. And what needs to be determined by the state is the standard of product to meet the services produced by Sunny Hvar. It's also often mixed here when it comes to tourism, public-private partnerships, and it's actually meant as a positional rent. What our tourist facilities have is a positional rent and in fact no one is worthy of a positional rent because tourists don't go there because someone bought a hotel and a sound name but because it's our beautiful Adriatic. And why don't you buy a hotel in Gospić, Lica, Udbina and make an even nicer hotel won't fill it even 5% at a 100% lower price. And it is actually a positional rent that Croatia should define, and when these facilities are sold or privatised or managed, then it is necessary to define what is a positional rent. Otherwise, I often say that the income from Croatian tourism is exactly how much the state needs to collect a positional rent because Croatia still, in fact, has not built a Croatian tourist product in order to earn added value. I would only list here what I have often said and say that the border case in which a public private partnership can be applied is Željezara Sisak. The Sisak steel plant cannot be activated without the role of the state, but it can also not become efficient without the role of the private sector. Thus, public-private contracts are concluded in transactions where the private parties participate, participate or supply or support the production of infrastructure facilities or services. These facilities or services are by their nature not market products, so their production does not take place using market mechanisms but using what I said the second best solution and most often through the application of a public-private partnership contract. Public-private partnership arrangements usually take place as follows: the public sector, i.e. the state, invests the country, with or without payment on a specified deadline. It's about a certain deadline here. The private side of the projector, build, renovate or increase the capacity of the facility given to them by the state. The public sector or state shall define, define, define, define standards for the production of facilities or public services and how their prices are formed. The private sector produces public services using the land and facilities that the state has given it and with the standards it has set. At the end of the public-private partnership arrangement, the private party in the contract returns the acquired facilities, and these contracts are concluded mostly from 15 to 30 years depending on the activity. From such defined public-private partnership agreements in directives, contracts, laws by counterpart Tonchi it is visible that it is not a substitute for privatisation or privatisation should be conducted through such arrangements and even Europe brings this "green paper", green paper, in order to defuse such arrangements now in the single European market. Now the second thing I wanted to say was contracts. A public-private partnership can take various contractual forms. A colleague named Tonchi is only two, three. There are about 30 standardized forms of these contracts somewhere. And all these contracts can handle all our needs very well. And the problem with Sunny Hvar was that he had long negotiated because he failed to meet any of this public-private partnership contract because the intensity of both parties was not such as to close the contract, but under that name they wanted to classify some other content. So there's a system called "both" here, like building, making products, taking advantage of doors, so "joint Ventures" and operating management, so let's say you design, build, manage, finance and so on. So these contracts can be used if someone does these guidelines so that they are defined in these directions on the Croatian side. As regards an economic strategy that should determine how to manage Croatian property, then as regards public-private partnership, it can be divided into 4 large groups, or two large areas. And these areas are economic and social, and contracts are called firm and soft contracts. The hard and soft economics. And that's what we have, the first kind of contract is physical economic infrastructure. Those are hard contracts, aren't they? It's roads, highways, bridges, ports, railways, airports, telecommunications, energy and so on. And they are specifically cited by all these European directives and European laws. The second is an institutional economic infrastructure called these soft contracts "soft economic and innovation". These are financial institutions, funds, development institutions, agencies, institutions, technology transfer agencies, export institutions, employee training, what Europe and we are now pushing us to build this infrastructure in the accession process of Europe. The third form of contract is the physical infrastructure for social and social activities and these are hospitals, schools, building houses, kindergartens, nursing homes, prisons in public-private contracts, water supplies and so on. And then we have soft contracts again, or institutional social social infrastructure. These are the Agency for Environmental Protection, Social Security and so on. These prior groups of activities are not profitable or not profitable within a short period of time. Or they are not profitable if a private entrepreneur has to buy the most frequent land or more expensive facilities to carry out these activities. On the other hand, whether central or local in order to ensure conditions for increasing the quality of life or business must ensure that these services are provided. In partnership with the private sector, the state reduces the financial and personnel burden and increases the quality and efficiency of the production of these public services. Finally, the aim of these activities is actually to improve material and physical infrastructure, personal infrastructure and institutional infrastructure. These are just some of the aspects or meanings of a public-private partnership. Finally I say again we support the HSP proposal and we would really like Croatia to make some guidelines I doubt that the law will succeed. Guidelines for the conclusion of the PPP Treaty, which should be drawn up by the Croatian Government, should firstly prevent transactions for which the best solution is given by the market from being concluded through public-private partnerships contracts because these contracts are always under special attention or suspicion. Second, to specify areas of economic social activity where public-private partnerships can be concluded. Third, specify the types of contracts that can be concluded according to both economic or social activity and according to Croatian specificities and with the objectives that the contract aims to achieve. Fourthly, to ban privatisation through public-private partnership contracts as this reduces the transparency of business transactions with the state sector and in any such contract Croatia will receive several negative points on the list of transparency of business. And fifthly, the Croatian Guidelines on PPP should be harmonised or at least on the same principles as the European Union guidelines at the adoption stage. It is the so-called green, green paper or green, green EU paper of April 2004, which was also discussed by the promoter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39348	Thank you very much. Now they'd interrupt the session, continue with this topic tomorrow. The first is on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, which has been informed, the respected representative Damir Kain, and then by the order of MPs Neven Stazić, Ivo Banac, Zvonimir Mršić, Jure Bitunjac, Josip Leko, Meden Milan. So this topic, then goes on in the agenda. Resume tomorrow at 9:30. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will continue the session and debate on the proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on guidelines for the conclusion of a public private partnership agreement. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39350	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. So here's the first sentence from the reasoning of this conclusion, I almost dare say that it offends, here I quote the attempt to privatise Sunny Hvar in early 2003, more precisely, his attempt to sell it to Slovenians, etc. Here, Slovenians are mentioned in one pervasive,...I don't know the ugly sense and I think we just don't need it. The truth is that in some cases the Slovenian public is not even more radical than their politicians, but the fact that the exchange of goods has exceeded $2 billion in both directions, plus it has to be added billions of dollars from Croatian-Slovenian tourism, and it all says that no distinction can be made between the Slovenian side of the capital, or Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, the Italian etc. However, it does seem regular and this sentence is simply a confirmation of it. On the other hand, for example, we will not sell one square meter of land in Istria, which is discrimination couple exellance, but on the other hand, on the other hand, with a large commission we are selling to the Privredna and Zagrebačka Banka, which is a conscious financial self-repair. The second thing we can see is why this bill's basic intensities are. It was a time-consuming attempt to privatise Sunny Hvar in favour of Terme Chatjes. First of all, in what state Croatian tourism is, I think it is important, we gentlemen can fool ourselves, however, from the 2 months that we normally last the tourist season we cannot live or tourism cannot survive and such tourism as it is today, unfortunately there is no big future. Finally, half of the Dalmatian hotels have not been renovated today, almost all operate with losses from 91 to 2005 on the Adriatic, without counting several thousand apartments, not even three new hotels have been built in a move from Umag, via Pula, Opatija down to Dubrovnik. I repeat once again in 14 years it wasn't built on thousands of kilometers of shore three new hotels. Adriatic coast, Croatian coast. On the other hand, Mr Tadic nicely states what a public private partnership is and what makes it different from privatisation, I quote that local state budgets are often insufficient to directly finance public affairs or infrastructure, so it is necessary to create and improve models where the goal is to attract private capital to invest in public sector programmes or projects through a network of contractual commitments. So, the quote's done. And really what's the fundamental question of how to attract this capital. Yesterday I also said that a Slovak country with 5.5 million inhabitants of Croatia has 4.5, has exports of nearly 29 billion dollars for 2004. Croatia ended up exporting $8 billion last year, one Slovak country repeats, with 5.5 million residents having imports of over $29 billion, Croatia only $16 billion. As this private capital of ours came into existence, we know by conversion, everyone will agree or the vast majority of the crime of their kind, but what we will do is that these people who were involved in it today are pillars of society, the money is in their possession. Furthermore, on this side, Mr Tadic quotes him as saying that a public private partnership must not be confused with privatisation, public private partnership means the introduction of a private administration into the public sector, through a long-term contractual relationship between a private operator and a public authority. That is what I quote, Mr Tadic or this act "a private partner provides public service to the public, both through private funding of the project and through private experience in the work know how, the public private partnership in EU countries is realised through or through the creation of a mixed company for public business, public service or through a concession given to a private partner for this purpose by state or local authorities. Privatisation, on the other hand, means the transfer of public service or company to private hands, in order to be led in accordance with the private interest rather than in line with the public interest." I don't think there's anything controversial about it, I'm just afraid that in Croatia, too, it could eventually become one of the mechanisms for money withdrawal. While we are already talking about this tourism, it will certainly be getting better from year to year, it will be modest indicators of better but it is certain that in 2005 it will be better than in 2003, as it was better in 2001 and in 2001 certainly better than in the course of the 1990s when NATO struck the ex-Yugoslavia. What Croatia should do before that is to carry out or introduce some control over these state-owned companies, not to treat these administrations as their own. Where regular salaries are, say, higher than the president's or prime minister's salary, and the supervisory boards are appointed by people to make extra money. It is a problem and a European form needs to be introduced, paid for but also asked for responsibility and not to pay for it, but no one is responsible for it. What is a public private partnership, it is de facto as suggested in this context of concessions or the creation of a joint commercial company. So between the individual, private on the one hand and the state or state of some institution on the other. So we have all this and already today in the Republic of Croatia, all of this is familiar to us, I said we have this today, something similar we might be applying in INI where MOL has that 25% stake in the company or in some other companies where the government sells a smaller share of 50% of the underlying capital. As far as this conclusion is concerned, however, IDS will support it, but the background of this conclusion is mainly the case of Sunny Hvar, which Mr Tadic spoke a lot yesterday. This company does not need to spend too much on words, the opportunities of the financial ones in it are clear to us, however, it is interesting that what is right in action. Those who own the so-called. The agreement between the government and the Orco group on a public partnership on the Sun Hvar literally bears the title, turns out on one side as if Mr Tadic is now defending the government's intention which may not be controversial but has elements that are simply unacceptable in the agreement. There's no doubt that this sunny Hvar needs to be invested. Orco agreed in five years to invest, "yes" 600 million kuna, but it can be sown and sold by the real estate of Sunny Hvar, which will say that these provisions in some way cause suspicion. Orco managed to install an article in the shareholders' agreement allowing for the sale of any real estate of Sunny Hvar. Orco will request the fund's consent and if the fund doesn't veto within 30 days, Orco will consider that the fund has agreed. However, there are even more questionable provisions, which is that compared to the pre-contract by the Orco Group, which was compared in the media several months ago with the offer of Questus, whose director is former Finance Minister Mr. Shkegro. Some parts of the agreement have been amended in favour of the Croatian Privatisation Fund but in the opinion of many agreements there are still several questionable articles. For example, in the part of the agreement under point 12.5, which defines the additional liabilities of the Orco Group, it is ensured in relation to the real estate of Sunny Hvar d.d. which makes part of the maritime goods according to the Law on the Sea Good, so that the borders of maritime goods can be moved so that society can once again be the exclusive owner. We remember these days the judgment of the Trade Court in Rijeka against Victor Lenac and the "trement" of the maritime goods. The Fund undertakes here to use all available legal and political means, and this may be the most doubtful to achieve the outcome of the obligations under this Agreement, says the article, which is considered to be controversial because the fund is actually obliged to become the owner of a part of the maritime goods which, according to the applicable laws in the Republic of Croatia, cannot be privately owned and the most pronounced paradigm that has been happening with this maritime good is exactly the case of "Vicor Lenca". Now clearly, in the end, you need to be correct, talk about all this. There is no need to doubt in advance about these contracts, but it is clear that they should be spoken of. It would be good for this conclusion to be forwarded to another reading and to deliver, in parallel with the same Government, its proposal for legal text in order to simply choose what will satisfy the interests of the Croatian public as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39351	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39352	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The first thing I have to say on behalf of the Croatian Party Club is that it is a sad fact that there are no representatives of the government today. In fact, the question of the public private partnership is not such a simple thing that the gentlemen who are mentioned here will explain this opinion of the Government means by Minister Vukelic and the Secretary of State, many of them are listed there but clearly that they believe that the Croatian Parliament is not a significant institution for them, that they do not have to be there despite the fact that the Prime Minister himself said that they will be there today and explain their opinions. The first thing I want to say on behalf of the HSP Club is that we always have to stick to it when we go into something unknown about those old folk sayings if you go in or out of something unknown you have to take small steps. That means, everything needs to be determined correctly, emulated so that something doesn't happen. And if you go into the unknown, there can be a lot of unforeseeable. Such a sad situation has been with conversion and privatisation that we have followed this principle a small step, a thoughtful step certainly would not have taken place this great robbery and grab in conversion and privatisation. And now we're re-entering a new area that again includes this issue of conversion and privatisation, and we're puking like geese in the fog. And for this reason, first of all, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I want to refer to this opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I want to tell the Government that at least it would be a turn for its own opinions to be logical, even if it is contrary to our proposal for a conclusion, but they should at least try to put the logical sequence in their opinion because this opinion also proves the principle that the paper suffers everything. Here you go. In the first part, the government says, it believes that the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on guidelines for the conclusion of a public private partnership contract is not necessary because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has found an optimal legal structure on the basis of which public private partnership contracts can be concluded. Then go on. The government acknowledges, since there is no legal framework for public private partnership projects, which prevents them from being exploited in their maximum and before this initiative of the HSP Representatives' Club at the level of the government, activities have been launched towards the preparation of the bill. So who's there now? First he says he doesn't have to, then he says he's gonna need it. Then again, the government is saying that the European Commission does not have a proper legal framework either. Well, at least we suggest that the government be consistent, that at least it goes from two premises to draw some conclusion and not this variant that one passport itself says one, the second paragraph says another, the third paragraph says, and it is obvious that by doing this opinion the government has forgotten or does not understand its constitutional role, which is that the government must guarantee the principle of rule of law and ensure the functioning of the rule of law. And as it will provide in this area, it will ensure that it proposes a regulation that will regulate what will be done and not this ridiculous opinion that there is no, so there is no and what can happen. It can happen that this confirms that the principle for those similar governmental private partnership will go according to the principle that they will benefit. And for others, there might be some kind of legal structure. So this is a very dangerous opinion and it proves that in this case the government is acting on the principle of volunteering, and volunteering is rightly the most dangerous. So someone who is like the Government will get how conversion and privatisation has been done in Croatia, and for everyone else, if there is anything left, maybe we can pass some kind of law. Therefore, this is quite irresponsible, the least said irresponsible behaviour of the government and the lack of understanding of its constitutional role and tasks, and the principle of democracy says that in all situations it must be regulated legally how and what will be done and not done according to the principle of volunteerism. And so, again, those things happen that we, as we point out from the Croatian Party, are going to take from six months to six years, but unfortunately we know how our conversion and privatisation took place, so the Croatian people don't have time to wait for the grab to continue and that something is given to the likeers and they will eventually bear it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39353	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39354	Thank you very much. Your Honored Mr. President, an honorary representative has said that the government has given a confusing answer and I cannot speak on behalf of the government. Unfortunately, they're not here, but I can tell about the content because I've been tracking what's been going on. It is not true that Sunny Hvar is subject to a public private partnership without a legal basis. I agree that a public private partnership should be further regulated by new regulations but we have the Public Private Partnership Act. It is in the Company Act, articles 640 of which are referred to as "partnership". These are precisely those relationships and therefore the first successful privatisation was made. It's a Coromac factory. It is the first public-private relationship that has been established with very good results. According to that legal basis, the government also worked on Sunny Hvar. I repeat, it is necessary to complete this, but it is not the correct assumption that it was done without a legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39355	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Ivo Banac. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39356	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to welcome in some way this debate that is happening here in the Croatian Parliament on the public-private partnership at the HSP initiative, but I must say immediately at the beginning that the Croatian public knows very well that this government promoted the concept of public-private partnership even last year, but not only what was written in the press through privatisation or the capitalisation of Sunny Hvar but as a way, as a model of economic policy in certain sectors where in certain commercial societies the state owns a majority or absolute owner. And such companies, in their own nature, should in some ways be privatised primarily if they are in, in financial difficulties. Such a policy and such approach aims at new employment, increasing the total state, social product and looking at the long-term privatisation of such companies, which I repeat in my nature should be privatised. I believe that in the sphere of the economy it is in some way this and a temporary solution because in the long term, looking at either Sunni Hvar or any other company one de facto when they must be absolutely majority owned by private capital. I would like to say and warn of what is happening on the ground when it comes to units of local self-government, municipalities and cities. De facto for years certain types have been created, certain mixed companies are formed to solve certain problems so that the methods and models are very different when it comes to ownership, about ownership, when it comes to ownership. I believe that there are certain dilemmas and that it should be defined in some way. I can say that in specific cases when it comes to one unit of local self-government where several such companies have been formed, in the tourism sector, then when it comes to working areas, golf, and where these relationships are moving from 50% to more and possibly lower, I believe that in matters of such societies, regardless of whether it is a state and local level, one legal basis should be created and one legal framework for these things to be transparent and to be in certain contexts, certain rules that will be known and equal for all. All that has happened so far when it comes to public-private partnership regardless of what level it is, whether it is a state, whether local self-government units and I think that they are on existing, existing legal bases; the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on Commercial Society or the Law on Privatisation. The Croatian Party's proposal for a right to what is proposed and what is given I believe is limited and not sufficient. It is primarily limited to public sector, public services, municipal affairs and I believe that the Croatian state, Croatian state and overall, and Croatian society are not enough and that what the Croatian government launched last year is a public-private partnership desirable and well in the clean economic sphere mainly in the sphere where the state still has a control package or has a partial package when it comes to ownership. The example of the UK mentioned by the HSP in the question of the PPP model would not be taken as some example mainly when it comes to the water supply segment. What happened here? In the 1970s, the water supply in England was de facto privatised and today England is trying to return the control package when it comes to water supply. I stress water supply because I believe that water is a strategic resource that Croatia must take into account, and I believe that, that some things have changed in the European Union as well, in particular, what is the position, the general position of the European Union when it comes to the communal economy is primarily the provision that units of local self-government should have ownership in such mixed societies at a minimum of 51%. It means a minimum of 51%, but it's desirable to be more. In any case, the privatisation of certain sectors when it comes to the public sector, when it comes to the communal economy, I mean here on units of local self-government, it should primarily be defined by other laws, not the Public-private Partnership Act. Therefore, the Law on the municipal economy, and perhaps a special law on the privatisation of such, such societies should be adopted. And let me get this straight. I support the government's position, which has launched not only a public-private partnership initiative but also activities towards the preparation of draft laws or sublegislative acts, which would define a legal framework for public-private partnership projects, which would mean opening up the possibility that in a transparent manner states and local self-government units can address certain problems in the sphere of the economy and in the public sector through mixed ownership, and in the context that this government has been promoting since 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39357	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. And it was a replica? Yellow, good, sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Honorable colleague says he supports the government's position. Well, the government in its position is contradictory. The first says that there is a legal framework for a public-private partnership then says that there is no such framework within the European Union and that the framework should be laid down legally and legally. Therefore, you cannot support something that is contradictory to one another. It is also important to say that the government itself eventually acknowledges that it must be regulated legally, and if we look at the competition for this first case of Sunny Hvar, you will see that there is no legal basis to preamble the competition. If he had a legal basis then he'd be on, then you'd exactly put the article that and that one. Therefore, this only proves that it is volunteering and that it needs to be cut off in a way that determines exactly how and how this process will take place, and we do not normally dispute that public-private partnership is desirable. It is one better form of privatisation and conversion where it can be conditioned and otherwise done than the whole conversion and privatisation has been carried out so far in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39359	Thank you. Replication response. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39360	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Kovacevic, I don't think you read the government's opinion well and thoroughly at all, and I don't think you listened to me as I gave a brief statement. It's about the next one. Today, there are enough legal solutions in the Croatian legislation, elements for a public-private partnership that have happened so far when it comes to the state level or when it comes to local level. However, if we are talking about public-private partnership as an economic policy, as part of an economic strategy when it comes to the development of units of the state, and thus the unit of local self-government, then it would certainly be good to make it up, to have a legal framework, whether it will be law, whether it will be sublegal acts. I am not in any way prepared or competent to answer that, but as part of the economic policy strategy, it should be legally defined, mainly that many units of local self-government go to certain arrangements. I can speak what happened at the level of Sinj, where relations are 50:50, which are legally absolutely possible, but looking at the long run, looking at the long term they can be in fixed dilemmas and open certain dilemmas and I think existing legal frameworks allow but not enough what should happen in the Croatian economy and mainly in the public sector and privatisation of the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39361	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Tonči Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39362	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Your Honor, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government. One of the doubts raised during this debate is whether there is a public-private partnership with the legislation in Croatia or not. The answer is clear. There is no legal regulation for a public-private partnership in Croatia. Point. The Croatian government also acknowledges this in its statement. I'm quoting. Since there is no specific legal framework for public-private partnership projects, it prevents them from being exploited in their maximum, etc. etc. Therefore, there is no framework for public-private partnership in Croatia in the legal sense. This is also seen from the competition for "Sun-Hvar", because here I have one part, so I have a copy of "Free Dalmatia" in which the competition is called, but there is no law in the chapter above to which it is called. So there's no legal framework for a public-private partnership. The Privatisation Act refers to privatisation, i.e. the sale of shares in its Article 6 or through a public tender or a stock exchange. Don't talk about public-private partnership. Public-private partnership is a novelty in Croatia, and knowing that in all the countries of the Union it is regulated either by guidelines or by law we wanted to do so right here because after "Sun-Hvara" it is also planned in the hotels of the Adriatic Club, so in all military resorts. But the same is true of its use in PICs and even in water supply. So, things can go too far, things can go uncontrollably unless there are clear legal guidelines on how to make public-private partnerships contracts. I remind everyone of the fundamental difference between public-private partnership and privatisation. In privatisation, the company is handed over in private hands, to the private owner to be further guided in accordance with his private interest, because there is his private property. The company's public-private partnership is given to private administration, but it remains state-owned. This private manager may enter his private capital, but at the end of the story, the firm remains state-owned and it must follow the public interest, not the private interest of the private owner as a privatised firm all that time. And that's a huge difference. It must be clearly established in the contracts. The contract must clearly indicate what is the public interest that must be protected. The contract must clearly indicate that this protects the public interest and that sanctions are imposed if the private partner does not protect the public interest. These guidelines must also ensure that the public-private partnership is not used in those sectors of the economy where the market is the best regulator. These guidelines must define the areas of public-private partnership application. They must also prohibit privatisation through a public-private partnership. And these guidelines ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, must be consistent with the green paper on the public-private partnership of the European Union. The Green Paper is actually the basis of this whole proposal conclusion. He defines that a public-private partnership appears in a whole series of forms, but as a rule all of these can be reduced to two. One public-private partnership is based on contractual basis. So, something we could describe as a concession and another public-private partnership where a new firm is created by joint investment by a public partner, so state or local self-government and private partner. For this all together in Croatia there is no legal regulation and all we want are clear rules of the game. On the contrary, we from the government get the view that they agree with everything HSP says, they even agree that there is no legal regulation, but they say they don't even need it because it will be taken care of when contracts are concluded. Watch it now. So, there are no clear rules of the game, so we're going to make a deal like this with one of these, with another contract, and we just want clear game rules on all these contracts. Why do we want clear rules of play? Because a public-private partnership and a contract on it must ensure that the implementation of that contract is monitored. On the side that the Privatisation Fund is not currently controlling the implementation of the Privatisation Treaty. On the other hand, what happens to us is that those who bought therefore privatized companies don't actually meet those contracts and that they don't bear any sanctions for it. But we want this not to happen especially in the case of a public-private partnership where a public partner is obliged to monitor what his private partner does. So, we want the law or at least the legislative guidelines, so the guidelines with the legal force confirmed by the Parliament that would call the competition, choose a private partner, sign a contract with it, monitor the implementation of the contract and, if necessary, terminate the contract if that private partner does not meet what he has promised. The private partner in all contracts in the European Union is the one who carries the risk of designing, the risk of investment and the risk of business, and the public partner is the one who carries the political risk. Therefore, in general, the application of a public-private partnership to this, the definition of objectives, the definition of public interest, the monitoring of the implementation and termination of that same contract if the public partner was deceived. So, all of this must be covered in these guidelines and we therefore hold that it would be necessary to finally adopt these guidelines, that for a public-private partnership, given that what in Croatia is clearly the fastest to be applied, as the other countries that have entered the Union have done, or will just enter, or countries that are old members, in the same way that we are regulated. The best framework for this is this European Union Green Paper on PPP. Therefore, the European Union itself recognises that this phenomenon of public-private partnership is not regulated by existing laws because it would then normally be regulated by one of its directives. Since she couldn't regulate it with existing directives, she did a special study on it. It's this "green paper" where it actually gives advice to everyone who wants to get into it in a way that frames it in the appropriate legal frameworks. That's all I want here, that there are clear legal frameworks for a public-private partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39363	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39364	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Tadic said this, there is no legal framework for a public-private partnership, point. That's just not true. There is a very legal framework, not what this Government has said, but the basis of the Law on Privatisation, the basis of the Law on Commercial Society, the basis of the Law on Mandatory Relations and other regulations and the laws of the Republic of Croatia, there are legal frameworks for a public-private partnership. However, the government has just pointed out that it is not enough, that it is not sufficient and that a public-private partnership as part of an economic policy should in some ways go in the direction of bringing a legal framework to cover all areas of de facto economic sector and where the interests of state and local self-government units, and in particular the public sector. Therefore, there is a legal framework, but looking at long-term and long-term paths, this should be determined more closely by the specific laws of lex specialis, as I would say. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39365	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39366	Dear Mr. President, a respected colleague has injured the Rules of Procedure, means the Institute is correcting the incorrect allegations because he did not correct Tonci Tadic but the government because the government says there is no legal framework. It says here. Therefore, it is not, it cannot use the Rules of Procedure in a way that corrects Tonci Tadic, he corrects the government. That's why I'm saying I'm protecting the government in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39367	Kola Kovacevic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because, for the proponent, MP Tadic has argued whether his claim is correct or not, that is another thing, that there is no legal framework, said the point. The Bytunac advocate disputed it and therefore challenged it according to his allegations the wrong, incorrect allegation. And do not report for the correction of the wrongdoers, correcting the opinion of the Rules of Procedure and alleging that they are wrong. ... Dear Representative Joseph Leco. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. ... Don't pollemize, please, when you know what this is about. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39368	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Public-private partnership is a very complicated and very sensitive economic and legal relationship, so I support the proposal for a conclusion on the guidelines for the conclusion of a public-private partnership agreement proposed by the HSP Representatives Club to the Croatian Assembly. And right away I have to say that he came in relatively late. He was late compared to the made precedent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the case of Sunny Hvar without the predetermined rules and objectives of this Economic and Legal Institute in the case of Suncani Hvar. In fact, Sunny Hvar is neither an activity nor a company that meets in practice but established criteria for the establishment and negotiation of a public-private partnership. It is a company that best valorises its value in the market without the presence of a public partner. It is precisely an example that will show that this institute is neither theoretically nor practically replaces the conversion and privatisation of privatization companies best achieve the objectives of the owners of capital and capital themselves. True, the government did well, so she let the test balloons in that the Sunny Hvar would be privatized through a public-private partnership. In this way, the public entertained professional and politically what a public-private partnership is while the government concluded a privatisation contract for Sunny Hvar in the way it concluded it. The public-private partnership advocates cases where, without the participation of the state, without a public partner, the private sector is more interested in the products concerned because it is harder to achieve economic objectives without a public partner in this respect. On the other hand, the state, the public sector must provide infrastructure, facilities without which social, economic life cannot be realised, and has already cited counterpart Tadic as being two forms in such a relationship. Thus, the creation of a new firm and joint investment or concession. So, the purpose of joining public and private is that each partner uses its advantages, and leaves the partner with public functions, functions in the firm that he is weaker. So control functions, generally rational management, product quality increases, the private sector increases in this partnership relationship. Because of this very principled and very clear attitude, Sunny Hvar can only achieve its value through privatisation. No state, because that will best achieve economic goals. It should point out as an important feature of a public-private arrangement, i.e. partnership, that the private party returns to the acquired and used facilities in the contract in this respect after the end of the public-private partnership contract. This is certainly proof that a public-private partnership cannot be a surrogate to privatisation. He's, he's used, but he can't be because after the contract runs out he has to return the facilities to the public sector. In our case, although there is no clear insight into the privatisation contract for Sunny Hvar, it could be a surrogate. Since the proposal for a conclusion is very acceptable and encouraged for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I will only repeat what the Social Democratic Party Club proposed yesterday in its presentation. So, in a future regulation that the government has clearly recognised or not recognised, it is delivered to the Croatian Parliament to adopt such a regulation that will make it impossible for public-private partnerships for those societies and facilities that best deliver on the market. To determine areas of economic specific municipal activity, which will deliver the best results precisely in a public-private partnership. Then, prescribe the types of contracts and deadlines on which they can be concluded, preserving the specificity of Croatian opportunities because we are indeed a country in transition especially when it comes to municipal activities. To prohibit privatisation or better said surrogate privatisation through public-private partnership contracts. And last but not least, every contract makes a transparent, Croatian public available, and the Croatian Assembly proposed for verification. I think that in such a relationship we will be able to ensure that the public-private partnership in Croatia delivers results even better than those obtained in the European Union, and they have really great experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39369	Thank you. Replica's respected representative, Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39370	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Leko, mentioned the return of the facilities after the end of the public private partnership contract. As far as this is concerned, it seems to me that you are defending the views or concept of a public private partnership proposed by the HSP Club. I will reiterate what I said earlier that the model proposed by HSP is very limited and primarily refers to public affairs, the public sector, to public services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39371	It can get up, but not like this. You don't have that, that's your problem, the plate you don't have. Dear Representative Meden Milan. I'm not a plate breaker. I need to keep them safe, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39372	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I believe that there is always a positive debate in the Parliament which is actually intended to create additional positive values for all participants in the privatisation process but I would also say after the privatisation process. It's just that I don't really think about the owners of processes like state and new private owners, but also about the whole environment, so..., public administration, trade unions, employees and the whole, all institutions of wider social importance. In fact, I believe that this debate initiated by the HSP Club will also make an additional positive contribution. The public private partnership model has been known in the European society for many years, but as such it has developed. Its application is most representative in the development of infrastructure of public importance and it is common that such projects on the one hand are located by a state and on the other hand by a strong private institution or financial institution, especially in countries of transition, such as the IFC, the European and World Bank for Reconstruction and Development, thus the EBRD, the IBRD or the European Development Agency. A precise definition that we are not here today in the best form I will quote from the head of the European Agency for the Development of Mr Cristoph Gaphos, who says: "In essence, public private partnership is a different way of ensuring public goods, services and infrastructure by combining the best in the public and private sector with the goal of raising budget money and providing quality public services." In other words, the merger of the public and private sector, the government expects... the skills and financial capabilities of the private partner to increase the value of taxpayers' money and all activities are followed by measured results. Surely such models of public private partnership are much more developed in Western European countries and the reason is that Europe is no longer engaged in privatisation, but these models have long ended in Europe. In transition countries such as Croatia privatisation is one process of transformation of state and social ownership in market-oriented open and responsible private property. Privatisation is not relatively easy, simple and always socially acceptable process, privatisation with basic economic and development assumptions has legal, social, political and moral meaning and some psychological meaning. For these very reasons, I am sure that the model of public private partnership in the more advanced countries of Western civilization has gone much further than in Croatia only in the beginning. Since the legislators here were very often mentioned by the Irish model, I will mention here a significant characteristic Irish model which is in Croatia and not lucky and is not even mentioned by the legislator of the Law. In Ireland, which is certainly more advanced economically than Croatia, there are regional partner companies ABPS that have been stationed in areas that are economically seriously threatened and focus on supporting the unemployed especially those who have not been employed for many years. Such companies accelerate local economic development and thus increase employment, they address unemployment problems, poor education, poverty and demographic addiction. Each partner company is an independent legal person with a supervisory board from... to 14 members, so they represent the interests of the local community, state agencies and ADPS partners. On the other hand, the French went the farthest on the assessment of economic experts in the public partner sector regulation. Vice-President of the General Council of the region... in France, when signing a partnership agreement between the local community, which is the signator of the contract, guarantees its implementation, in other words, contrary to what the promoter here said that the partner must guarantee from the French side regulation we see that the local administration in France guarantees it, so it is little... relative to what the promoter specifically said here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In France, therefore, there are three parties to this contract, local self-government for a particular project of an interested private company or a financier and is with it to benefit from this business venture or project. In order to maintain the quality of the contract, private partners and entrepreneurs are selected because better service is achieved through competition, and it is the responsibility of local administration to defend public interest. In France, according to... the citizens have the legal right to access all documents in the municipality related to the project. So, according to the local democracy law as it is called in France, the formation of different committees in municipalities is therefore envisaged, so citizens can come with their suggestions for decision-making and implementation of projects. Through these Western European examples, I actually just wanted to point out that after the privatisation process in Croatia, it expects a continuation of the development of a public private partnership. In Croatia there are a number of examples of a public private partnership, they are based on the legal structure of entering a private partner into the share structure of a privatised society, and this is based on the registration of new shares. Today we have heard a number of such examples, such a partner signes with the Croatian Privatisation Fund a five-year agreement between shareholders and the contract regulates the rights and obligations of the parties regarding the management of companies with new investments available with assets. The contract votes in the main assembly of shareholders, and in the Croatian legislation, the shareholder agreement is a key document that regulates the relationship between the state and the partner. So, it is not that public private partnership relations are not regulated in Croatia, but are here today I do not know whether it is accidentally or intentionally avoided. In Croatia, there is not yet a significant number of successful partnerships of the private and public sector on projects of importance for sustainable development. The reasons are likely in the absence of private sector motivation or for the sake of private sector poverty, then the deviation of inefficient and uncertain relations with the public sector. There are a number of initiatives in the field of environmental protection, joint investment in waste water treatment, etc. The shareholders are certainly interested in investing which would be economically and environmentally justified. It also discourages the long-term and uncertain outcome of such contracts, the few private and public partnerships are easier to achieve in smaller areas and are poorly known as such valorised. Let us conclude that private public partnerships are still the only ones in Croatia. In addition to the known fact that there is no specific legal framework that would maximise the value of the public private partnership, the Government of the Republic of Croatia launched an initiative towards the preparation of draft laws or sublegal acts. In this way, projects on public private partnership will be optimally envisaged. By doing so, I do not support the proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on guidelines for the conclusion of a public private partnership. I believe that in the near future in Croatia... quality projects will be based on these principles of public private partnership. ... in my views some of them, namely, recently completed the western arm of the Istrian Ipsilon 42 km long, and I believe that... according to this model between the state and the French company... actually one of the very open issues of public partnership when soon I hope a full profile of the highway will be built. Furthermore, the status of tourism land in Croatia has not been resolved. I believe it is necessary to achieve a positive productive consensus between the state and the hotel-tourism companies and about the land issue. Assuming that land is owned by a state or local administrations, the basis for a public private partnership has been created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39373	Thank you. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39374	I would ask an esteemed colleague to read the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 15 June 2005 which he says since there is no specific legal framework for projects of a public private partnership that prevents it from being used in its maximum, and before this initiative of the HSP Club at the level of the Government, activities have been launched towards the preparation of the bill or... regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, a colleague is not exactly what you said the framework exists that is legally there. Well, the government itself admits to all that. So read your government's opinion. Don't make me read to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39375	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39376	In my reading here, I said that there are no specific frameworks of legal regulation and that in the process it means making by the Government was either a special proposal or sublegal act, and on the basis of that, I specifically said that I, in my debate, did not need this conclusion to be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39377	Honorable representative Ante Markov final debate on behalf of the club five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39378	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to say on behalf of the HSS Club that we will support these guidelines on the conclusion of the Public Private Partnership Treaty because we believe it is good that this debate is opened. Of course, our contribution goes in favour of all those who have said it is necessary to strengthen and better develop all mechanisms of action of the private public partnership. Of course, the legal framework is the only possible framework to fully and in a quality way place these very important measures for the economy and for society on the basis of which we are sitting in this House of Commons. Of course, it is unquestionable that the Republic of Croatia has defined itself as a market economy, has defined those mechanisms of action that are known in market economies and that make resources, employment, production, the creation of new jobs the best effects. However, there is, of course, a stalemate in certain stages and in certain branches of the economy and social activity at all. Where market economy mechanisms unfortunately cannot act, new and different ways of valorising resources, valorising the restoration of production and creating excess value must be found. One of the ways that has been applied in the world lately is, of course, a private public partnership or private public partnership contracts. Of course, the question is whether Sunny Hvar is the most escalating and appropriate example of testing the start of a private public partnership in Croatia. Why? It is simply because it must exist and exists in those directives that the European Union knows and also in the aggregate material that is published in that sense. Those areas that are primarily predetermined for private public partnership contracts are based on them. Why do I say that? Is it good, is it wise in Croatia to say that private public partnership should start in the tourism sector, in connection with Sunny Hvar? I believe not. Would it be smarter if it started in TLM in Sibenik, which is known to be non-marketable, that the state must pump it every year and that without that part it would not exist. Of course it would be smarter because it's very clear that Sunni Hvar is this way and at a small door he's kind of privatized and it will unfortunately be privatized at a lower market price than the one that belongs to him because no one has said that the maximum value of Sunny Hvar is so-called. the position value and the position rent that no one is talking about. Because if that were the case then they would probably be sold at the same price as on the Adriatic. Of course they don't sell because the difference in police rent has definitely set the price. Finally, what we will argue first is that we need to specify areas of economic social activity in which private public partnership contracts are to be concluded, that privatisation should be prohibited through public private partnership contracts and that those areas of economic or social activity to which they apply should be listed. It is therefore necessary to approach the creation of a full and serious Law on Public Private Partnership. Just to say in the end, yesterday our minister, Cobankovic, called for the experiences of our neighbours, Serbia-Montenegro, said they have slightly less incentives in agriculture than we do. I will not rely on them but I will say that one Montenegro has a contract and a private public partnership law since 2002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39379	Thank you very much. The Honorable fellow Judge has a word on behalf of the club for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39380	The Croatian Retired Party Club believes that the legal framework should be given to this matter. Whether the guidelines are sufficient or not, we can discuss this but part of the guidelines should be elaborated in more detail and should come with a full proposal and I suggest that this proposal be done as soon as possible because it is a new and legal and economic category on the Croatian market. We in Europe have a famous so-called. Social entrepreneurship. These are new incentives in Europe, the European Community accepts and I think Croatia should be accepted as well. The public domain is no longer a monopoly only of government, a new interest is sought and here is a new interest, no matter what we call it it appears and it takes part of responsibility for the development of Croatia, Croatia's economy but not only the economy but also the domains of Croatian education, culture, environmental protection, etc. Therefore, private and public interests find their own interests or rope interests in all these areas. It's even better to take a step further to replace this social entrepreneurship with an active partnership. Maybe that's the right expression. Perhaps he should be more detailedly regulated and therefore I call on the government to prepare for this issue the entire legal framework at one of the next sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39381	Thank you, dear fellow Judge. Do the proposing representatives want to take the final word? Yeah. On behalf of HSP representative Tonci Tadic's final statement. Here you go, colleague Tadic!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39382	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Your Honor, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government! This proposal for a conclusion was aimed, aimed primarily at creating guidelines on public-private partnership. The clubs that discussed it today and yesterday have established that fact. The Croatian government has also established that fact. It is no doubt that the public-private partnership is a new phenomenon in the Croatian economy, that the novelty that needs to be regulated both well and legally and economically. I especially thank the support we received from SDP, HSS, IDS and Croatian pensioners for the fact that clear legal guidelines for a public-private partnership are needed. We are not asking the government to pass the whole law, but we are asking it to at least bring clear guidelines with a legal force that would give clear rules of play for a public-private partnership. We are witnessing a public-private partnership being conducted in Sunny Hvar. It's better to say that there's something going on that's trying to define itself as a public-private partnership. Is it really or isn't it that we can't know because there's no clear legal framework? A public-private partnership, I remind you, once again, needs to be distinguished from privatisation. The privatisation is that a state firm or a local company is therefore owned by the city through privatisation, we give it into the hands of the private owner to be his private property and that he continues to lead it in accordance with his private interest. The public-private partnership in contrast is when we give this public firm to private administration so that this private manager can enter his private capital, but the company remains state-owned or remains owned by the city so the company remains in public ownership, and the privateer uses his experience, using his capital to make the firm do its best. Croatia is not the only one who is trying to define a public-private partnership. The public-private partnership shall be implemented by France, Spain, Portugal, Great Britain, Ireland, the Netherlands, Germany, Italy, Belgium, Greece and all Scandinavian countries, and shall also seek to do so by the new Member States of the European Union. So it's a whole new phenomenon that only appeared in the Union in the 1990s. It is a phenomenon that the Union itself has not well defined its directives and has made this "green paper" about a public-private partnership with the desire to regulate it as best as possible. That's what we want here. There is an announcement that a public-private partnership after Sunny Hvar will be applied both in PICs and in the hotels of the Adriatic Club so-called former military resorts but also in certain utility companies or water supply companies. All of this brings us together to the need for a clear definition of how to conclude contracts and how to protect public interest? I am saying this especially because of all the examples of the implementation of a public-private partnership from the Roman Empire, in which the first forms of public-private partnership appeared to date, the same problems have arisen. So in those cases where there is no good public control, when there is no good monitoring of what a private partner does by a public partner when the state or local self-government fails to monitor the implementation of the contract by a private partner then that private partner starts working on its own. At that time, it may begin to follow exclusively its private interest, not the public interest to which it is bound by the contract. So any public-private partnership agreement must therefore clearly declare what public interest is and what are the objectives? It must define the way in which public monitoring of what makes up a private partner and therefore public-private partnership contracts must be made public, and not a secret such as the case of Sunny Hvar and third, those contracts must clearly indicate the possibility of a public partner breaking up a contract if the private partner violates that contract, or fourthly, all the risk of business must be borne by a private partner, as is the case otherwise. The public partner, whether a country or a local self-government, is at risk of applying a public-private partnership to decide at all on this model that it has chosen the right objectives, that it has opted for real public interests and has ensured adequate monitoring. These are risks taken by a public partner. The risk of business is always on a private partner. And these facts need to be clearly established in such guidelines in order to prevent any manipulation by a private partner. Also in this debate came another key thesis, another, another key requirement, which is to disable hidden privatisation through a public-private partnership. As a representative from the island of Hvar, I also express my personal view that it is possible for this public-private partnership in Sunny Hvar to end up as a covert privatisation. And that is why it is good for it to be clearly regulated and to be banned from privatisation through a public-private partnership. It is also necessary to ensure the application of the market in all those sectors of the economy where the market is the best regulator, as in this case a public-private partnership would actually be nothing but unfair competition. And most importantly, these guidelines on public-private partnership must be consistent with the European Union's "green paper" on public-private partnership. So all we wanted was for Croatia to create its legal framework for a public-private partnership to discuss the tender by law, to choose the best bidder as a private partner in a particular business, to make a contract by law. By law, we shall ensure that the implementation of the public-private partnership is monitored and that, by law, we break up the public-private partnership contract unless this private partner fulfils its part of the obligations to which the contractual commitment is committed. For such a thing, the guidelines made by the Croatian Government, which would be confirmed by the Croatian Parliament by its decision and which would have legal power to do so. We are pleased, I repeat, that we have also received support for the other clubs of representatives in the Croatian Assembly of SDP, HSS, IDS and HSU. Unfortunately, the Croatian government in its obvious view that there is no legal regulation, believing that the HSP initiative is good, however, says it cannot support our initiative simply because they will take care of it themselves in the best way. That's exactly what we're afraid of. We're afraid of this volunteerism, we're afraid of such unwritten rules, we're afraid of situations where the rules of the game aren't clear and publicized. We are afraid precisely because this often leads to a situation where private partners are contracted from case to case, that individual contracts are concluded with a private partner that do not actually protect a good public interest or that we are afraid that, without clear legal regulations, we will be difficult to terminate and that it will be difficult to collect from a private partner the damage he has done through unconscious management of a public firm or any public service. These are all risks to be highlighted, as these risks have been manifested in all cases of public-private partnership in the European Union countries. Therefore, once again, I call on all the committee clubs to support our proposal for a conclusion on the adoption of guidelines for the conclusion of a public-private partnership agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39383	Thank you, dear colleague Tadic. Does the government's representative want to show himself? Yeah. The word has a secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs. Just a few words on all that together, on the whole initiative. I realized that MP clubs support this response from the government to the HSP initiative, otherwise to support the government's initiative, means that it has already initiated the process of developing a special legal framework. So which would further, means ensuring that we call this public-private partnership activity. And here I would like to stress once again that what has been done so far means it has been made in accordance with the legal frameworks. So, using a few laws. So, since the government is aware of the importance of this activity, a public-private partnership, it means it has launched an initiative to create a special law, which I see all the clubs of MPs and support as such. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39385	Thank you very much, dear fellow Secretary of State. That's what we're done with on the agenda. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-29-0.u39386	Proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on guidelines for the conclusion of the Public Private Partnership Treaty. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on guidelines for the conclusion of the PPP Treaty is not accepted as proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find the proposed conclusion has been reached by 72 votes for, 11 abstentions and 21 against.
