ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30958	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the subject of corruption is a subject which is often discussed in public and will be debated for sure and in front of this House on various bill proposals, initiatives or reports, and that is completely understandable, because the fight against corruption is effective and our national interest on the one hand, on the other hand, is not something commendable only to our problem, the national problem is present as a global problem in the world, and therefore the fight against corruption is shown and reflected on the national agenda, on a regional and international agenda, which is witnessed by a series of international conventions and documents that are being signed. In this direction, the convention, which is now proposed to be confirmed, is the United Nations Convention against Corruption. This convention was adopted in 2003, the Republic of Croatia signed it on 10 December 2000 in Merida, Mexico. So far, it has been signed by 130 states and ratified by 12 states. When it comes from only harshly from the content of this Convention, which is its purpose and purpose, which is to promote and strengthen measures to prevent and combat corruption more effectively and responsibly, to promote honesty, accountability and proper management of public affairs and state property, as well as to promote international cooperation and technical assistance between the countries of the parties with a view to preventing corruption, then I think it is quite clear that, in fact, by showing that we hope, too, to confirm this Convention, the Republic of Croatia confirms its continuing commitment to participate actively in any possible action taken to prevent corruption. All we have to say is that we have already signed and ratified a series of other conventions such as the Criminal Convention on Corruption, the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, a series of documents by the Council of Europe. We have implemented them in our legislation to a greater extent, such as the Criminal Law, the Criminal Procedure Act, the USKOK Act, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, etc. Therefore, we can say that the Republic of Croatia is indeed doing everything in its normative plan to create this normative framework to enable competent institutions and bodies in charge of combating corruption to implement these measures effectively and effectively. Of course, I'm fully aware when I say this that under the normative framework, even confirming a series of conventions can't be enough. Why? Because our success rests and is reflected in concrete actions and measures taken in the fight against corruption, so to prevent and punish those found to have confirmed it. However, by confirming this Convention as one of a series of international documents, I repeat, the Republic of Croatia shows its readiness and commitment further in the international agenda through confirming these documents and their implementation into our internal legislation and through the cooperation of all competent authorities is an active factor and, in a regional international plan in the fight against I dare say, this evil of modern humanity. I say the convention is signed, now we propose her confirmation. Of course, the proposer will accept all those amendments that will contribute to the possible improvement of the text of the law itself. So short and important. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30959	Thank you. The rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee? Justice? The chairman of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30960	Dear President, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 19th session held on 19 January 2005 a proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, with the final proposal for a law tabled by the Croatian Government by 23 December 2004. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The proposer's representative also noted that the confirmation of the convention is an important step towards globalising the fight against corruption, which is why the Republic of Croatia improves co-operation between countries in an important segment. The debate pointed out that the Republic of Croatia is taking the necessary measures under national legislation to prevent corruption as a major social evil, which will certainly contribute to the ratification of the Convention, but that at the same time it is necessary to work on the necessary cooperation between the state's attorney and the entire social community in order to prevent corruption. The view of the Committee on Justice is that the confirmation of the Convention by emergency procedure is justified for several reasons. The Republic of Croatia took part in the procedure for the adoption of the Convention. The Republic of Croatia also ratified the Criminal Convention on Corruption and signed an additional protocol with the Criminal Convention on Corruption and largely implemented the provisions of those international acts in its internal legislation. Following the discussion, the Committee on Justice unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30961	Thank you. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The president of the board, Ivan Jarnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30962	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Report on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption with the Final Proposal for a Law. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on the 32nd session held on 19 January 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the Committee are familiar with the reasons and interests of the Republic of Croatia for which it is proposed to adopt the law in question by emergency procedure. Furthermore, at the meeting of the Committee, it is concluded that the purpose of this Convention is to promote and strengthen measures to prevent and combat corruption, promote integrity, accountability and proper management of public affairs, state property, as well as promote international cooperation and technical assistance between States of parties with a view to preventing and combating corruption. The Committee supported the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure because it assessed that the law is of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, in order to strengthen the fight against corruption at national and international level, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, in the text proposed by the legislator of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30963	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club, the respected representative Emil Tomalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30964	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, I would like to point out, fully support the proposal for a bill to confirm the United Nations Convention against Corruption. We can define corruption in a wide variety of ways, and it appears as a general phenomenon throughout the world, especially in post-conflict countries. The concept itself, of course, derived from the Latin word "corruption" which means both corruption and bribery and bribery, and depravity, and primarily refers to all types of abuse of official position, carried out out out of kindness. In the practical concept of corruption is most often identified by receiving bribes from the official person who receives either a gift or any other benefit, or who accepts the promise of a gift or other use to carry out or miss an official action within the circle of her powers. We can also define corruption as spiritual and moral corruption, total disregard for honor and dignity, offering or receiving money, so as not to fulfil a duty or to act against an individual’s conscience. It really exists in those socio-economic formations where the absence of the rule of law and law is present, and where there is an inadequate judicial system. Where there is a practice of bribery and conflict of interest, where a business environment is exploited, where the presence of organised crime in which there is elemental poverty and where a complex political-administrative system exists. Corruption is therefore considered to be any form of abuse of public authority for personal gain, although the public and political way of speaking, under the notion of corruption implies quite different social phenomena that we can subdue under. First, organized economic crime. Second, bad authority and its consequences. Third, human depravity and haughtiness of power. Despite the fact that there is no legal determination of corruption, conventionally under that notion is considered primarily to be giving and receiving bribes, illegal intervention, abuse of the duties of state authorities, abuse of positions and powers, conclusion of a harmful contract, giving away official secrets, and issuing and unauthorized acquisition of business secrets. Each of these definitions reveals in fact an individual element of the phenomenon of corruption and although disputes can be held about the determination itself, the social and political damage of corruption in every sense is uncontested. Corruption is harmful and destructive to every society and to every socio-economic formation. Although it has always existed in the modern state, it becomes a danger because it damages the performance of social affairs, lowers the necessary level of morality in political decision-making, blocks public administration, and makes the judiciary and justice system ineffective. Perhaps the greatest damage is that it distorts priorities in political and economic decision-making and is devastatingly damaging public responsibility and social morality. With this in mind, it is precisely because of everything mentioned in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, therefore, which includes the time period from 2003 to 2007, this problem, therefore, is also in the programme to strengthen the overall fight against corruption both on the normative and on the implementation plan. The programme also provides for the creation of a new National Anti-Corruption Programme in order to strengthen preventive measures and the establishment of a special body to implement such measures as well as for the purpose of education and dissemination of knowledge on the prevention of corruption. All the above strengthens us even more in the view that this proposal for a law on the validation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption should be unreservedly supported in the assembling of mosaics and a normative environment for an effective fight against corruption. The success of fighting corruption, though dependent on a number of factors, is certainly most important, the success is the most important political will and determination. Surely there is justification for the need for political consensus, consensus of all political parties, movements and associations, as well as the creation of a common social and political climate to combat corruption. So here the political obligation is therefore not a simple declaration of intent but a clear political obligation and responsibility towards voters and citizens. The demoralising remarks that corruption is an inherited endemic phenomenon that has a foothold in people's attitudes and habits really need to be replaced by the knowledge that it is a nadal system that needs to be fought decisively. And corruption itself is reduced to the least possible measure. Therefore, changes in the political system, highly legitimate government, openness to reforms, overcoming the ethical logic of redistributing foreign investment, strategic orientation towards European integration, are real incentives in the fight against corruption as well as success in countering corruption conditions for achievement, to achieve such objectives. As regards the concrete text of the proposed Law, given that the Convention is as a standard of general importance, the purpose is to promote and strengthen measures to prevent and combat corruption more effectively and effectively, but also to promote integrity and responsibility for proper management of public affairs and state property. Furthermore, the Convention contains provisions defining concepts relating to official persons, property, property benefit achieved by criminal acts and other concepts relating to the fight against corruption and money laundering. In the area of criminal material law, the Convention provides definitions and descriptions of those criminal acts that appear in the area of corruption as typical in all modern legislations, which are: Bribes in the public and private sectors, illegal effects on trade, abuse of duties, illegal wealth, money laundering achieved by criminality. However, as regards procedural provisions, the criminal liability of legal persons, the punishment of attempts and participation, and the Institute of Obsolecy, confiscation, witness protection, compensation, criminal records, etc. is prescribed. When comparing this with the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, it should be pointed out that Croatia ratified three documents that create a legal framework at that level to combat corruption, which are: Under (a) a criminal legal convention on corruption in July 2001. b) Additional Protocol with the September 2003 Criminal and Legal Convention on Corruption. c) Civil law Convention on Corruption of June 2003. Three, international and legal standards have largely been implemented in internal legislation, and we find them in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, then the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, then the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests in Public Liaison, the Law on the Protection of Witnesses, some provisions of the Labour Act, and, of course, there is the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. As far as the institutional framework for the fight against corruption is concerned, it is primarily necessary to mention the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, of course with its amendments and additions. In line with everything exposed and despite the fact that the Republic of Croatia is already taking all necessary measures to combat corruption as a major social evil, the confirmation of this Convention is a very important step towards the globalisation of the fight against corruption and the expansion of legal instruments in this direction. The presence of corruption in the Republic of Croatia can be greatly slowed, not only democratically, but also in all other countries, not only can it slow down democratic development, but also the economic development of a particular country, and in this fact we find an additional foothold for the unreserved support of the Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. And let me finish my presentation with an opinion or attitude from which she even expressed the Holy Table with her acts which declared corruption by sin and evil, corruption as well as political ideological manipulation are fundamentally contrary to the truth, they attack the very foundations of social harmony and reduce the possibility of peaceful social relations. Many countries are characterised by endemic corruption at all levels of society's power. As a result, people seem helpless to stand up against corrupt politicians of judges, administrators and bureaucrats. The situation adds to other divisions among people. Therefore, corruption, and thus defined from that side as a social evil that needs to be eradicated, is aware of as little as possible and, in that sense, once again and finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community absolutely proposed the Law and supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30965	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Antun Kapraljevic, Club of HNS Representatives of the PGS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30966	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Tomljanovic, told a wonderful story about corruption, which is corruption in what way it was worked out in this convention. However, I would like to begin my presentation with a letter that you have all received, which one gentleman sent to the Office of the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Sanader, and in turn to all the clubs of MPs in the Parliament. And I wouldn't talk about the whole memo, but I'd just point to one part where the gentleman points to 10 million kuna tax evasion and warns that the Ministry of Finance and the State's Attorney's office didn't do much. And I want to point it out because I want to say why a man writes it, actually to read what his motives are. "Dear Mr. Minister, I am reluctant to tell you that even though I was willing to give my life for our country, this case will introduce all of us to the necessary leaders of European integration, if nothing is done in this case soon. Please know that this is not blackmail or ultimatum, but that it would be a sad realization that corruption and crime are not doing anything by the most called people of my country. So that's why we're at the top of the ladder of the most corrupt countries. I will also be forced to publish all this in our press and on television." Why am I pointing this out? I point out for a simple reason, that we are a large part of this Convention, both one and the other and third and civil law conventions on corruption and criminal law conventions on corruption of the European Union, and we have already installed these conventions of the United Nations into our legal system. But it doesn't work. We meet at every turn that corruption is on the rise and we know who we are by the corruption index. Why? Because all that time, citizens were passive observers and did not respond to corruption. But that changes. From the moment a minister left the government, things got better. Civil courage is at work, and I believe it will be more and more. Why I say that citizens in this whole story are important. Because the citizens were watching Croatia's robbery while some of the warrs were pretending, robbing, citizens looking at it, hurting them, however, they couldn't do anything. They couldn't do anything then. He's been through this robbery, coming in 2000 wins the coalition, and everyone's expecting what's promised in, gentlemen. I'm sorry because I'm allowed? I stick to the subject, I stick to corruption, gentlemen. Both yours and ours. Because evil should eradicate either yours or ours. And that's why not only in yours, but in yours and ours, and that house is called Croatia. And in this Croatia, I want to, and I'm going to try to get going, and I'm going to clean up in front of my house, and we started cleaning up in front of my house. In 2000, citizens expected that the coalition government would clear up, actually start clearing up with corruption, and besides, it was promised that the conversion would go into a revision of conversion, and we all believed that story. Nothing was done. The election comes in 2003 HDZ comes to power and Mr. Sanader has had the opportunity to be enrolled in gold letters in Croatian history. Whether or not we'll see about that, but he had the chance to be written in gold letters that he was going to deal with corruption. This could have taken place very simply when he was shown some behaviors he needed to react immediately. He didn't react. He didn't even show his will, he didn't show consistency in what he said he was going to start dealing with corruption, and he didn't go. Now, you throw all the time, you say you should clean up with yourself. Right, gentlemen, you should clear up with yourself. That is why we have launched some investigative committees that you are now blocking because we want it cleared with us and with you in the interest of Croatian citizens. Why don't we ask ourselves that, because in this situation where we are now being negotiated by party leaders, when the opposition is no longer known, what the government is asking is whether the same story was in 2000 and whether that is why the conversion has not been examined and sanctioned. And that is why I believe that citizens like this will contribute far more to democracy in the future, and that special role will be played by the media that should in any case point to what is good in society. In any case, HNS and PGS will support the adoption of this law because only by accepting European standards can we also go against corruption. And by the way, I see that this law does not provide for the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest that it should implement this law, in fact, this Convention, so I have made an amendment to oblige them to behave in accordance with this Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30967	Thank you. SDP's respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30968	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The SDP Club supports the adoption of this Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Here, I had the honor of signing this convention in Merida, Mexico a year ago and some and two months ago on behalf of Croatia, and this occasion may have happened, perhaps, something unusual. There was a big noise in front of that hall and one of our enthusiasms about the approval of the people, a mass that came on that occasion unusually gathered. However, the people did not applaud the adoption of the convention, he objected to the adoption of a convention or the signing of such a convention against corruption at all. Something that's really confusing because corruption has so longed for this society that the citizens there were panicking that then more than one simple confirmation without corruption, without pulling and reaching out for corruption will not be able to solve. You see, so far, this convention has been ratified by several countries, including Mexico. So, both with this opportunity and with our urgency, because Croatia has always preceded both signing and later ratifying conventions, we cannot in any way deceive ourselves and put ourselves to sleep in this truly serious struggle. Indeed, Croatia has done much on this normative plan. This is what the promoter says, says the Government here in the state assessment and says that Croatia adopted the National Anti-Corruption Programme in 2001 along with the Action Plan and that most of the measures, precisely legal measures, are foreseen by a national anti-corruption strategy and implemented. However, the question arises what about the implementation of the action plan. It was not difficult for us to sign on our own not this United Nations Convention against Corruption, as a whole series of commitments given to the country, the signatories of Croatia have already realised. However, whether the situation is so optimistic. The fight against corruption is one of the political priorities and one of the tasks of political reforms in Croatia and has been the task of last government, there must be this government and every other government. For what? Because the objective society and economic situation and the transition in which Croatia still has a high risk of corruption, still the privatisation that awaits us, the denationalisation that is not realised, the dangers of discretionary and voluntary decision-making of public authorities, the still uncertainty of institutions, the lack of democratic tradition and the lack of moral standards. So they're all synonyms, they're all factors and factors that affect corruption. So, because of these objective circumstances, but also of the pre-modern one political culture of undeveloped, still unstable, under-performing institutions, corruption is a phenomenon that we cannot overcome only by normative spells. It has already been established here, and we all agree that it causes corruption damage to trust, legitimacy, credibility of government, and that's what's very dangerous. Its consequences are quite practical, it destroys trust in institutions. On the one hand, we are investing huge funds in the construction of institutions and, on the other hand, the mistrust of citizens in the institution. The judiciary, health care, local self-government, central authorities are under constant suspicion of the honesty of the people performing those functions. The lack of trust right now reduces their efficiency and blocks the possibility of reform and innovation. To mention it here we hear here a announcement that the government will adopt a new programme with an action plan. However, this is an opportunity to remind ourselves that the 2001 National Programme was adopted. He is simply an example of civil society and government partnerships. The adoption of the national programme was then proposed by Transparency International Croatia to the Ministry of Justice, Administration and Local Self-Government. This incentive was at the time that Minister Stipe Ivanisevic formed a working group composed of representatives of a series of ministries and other state bodies of independent experts, which is particularly important and non-governmental associations. So already mentioned Transparency International, then trade unions and employers. And the government supported this proposal, it headed to the Parliament, and it was to remind ourselves that it was unanimously accepted, so now the question is now, with this normative act, we have advanced, which is with the action plan. A whole series of measures imposed on individual ministries have not been realised. Finally, there is still a debt left by the last government but here is also a year and two months of new authorities that no required commission has been formed in the House exactly as the national action plan requires it. Therefore, we do not need to get involved in the adoption of whole sets of laws on certification, ratification of many conventions, which is certainly good and necessary. However, assessment of corruption's widespreadness suggests that corruption is indeed not only legal but primarily the real problem of Croatia. However, all the analyses when we see how many criminal acts we have reported, in this respect, so corrupt nature, and how much, how many judgments we have, then we see that these data warns of one discrepancy between public perceptions, the spread of phenomena and the public change of what we really do, or we can do at all. However, it is noteworthy that already in 2001, Croatia, by bringing the national programme with the action plan, has improved to 51st place by index since 74rd... the internationals of the Republic of Croatia on the breadth of corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is devastating that in a year's time, Croatia has fallen again by 9 index points. And that's something to cause serious concern. It also raises concerns that although not significantly but nevertheless reduced funds for the work of USKOK. Each time there is also a question of concrete cases that come out just by the activities of USKOK in court, and regardless of this epilogue, there is then an entirely excess question and a question which then disturbs but the Croat corrupters that it is even necessary to abolish the BOOK instead of acting vice versa, to strengthen its material, material and human needs. In that sense, a lot has been done for the last four years but still not enough. The people who work right there at USKOK are people who, unlike other judicial officials, have agreed to examine their assets, have agreed to check each other's company at any moment, where they move, which is their property at every moment. Therefore, these are the people who demand, or which, it would be necessary for policy to give them absolute support, because fighting corruption, as the Italian president of the then Champi said, means to throw his life out to his own death. There is certainly a commitment to political action because the narrow fight against corruption depends on a greater number of factors of which political will and determination are most important. Great success and mobilization of the professional and political public in the debate on the problem of corruption which has been true for the past year and what the last year is about. In the public with exceptional media support, the fight against corruption is truly seen as one of the priorities. And that's something that encourages. Therefore, the larger we have so much sensitized public that then politics must not hesitate, or should not, and in any case it is very dangerous to create the impression that it hesitates in this sense or in that sense. So, Croatia has a whole series of international obligations along with this one. I say in that normative part, most of it has been fulfilled. Fighting corruption is an integral part of the process of democratisation, modernisation and public administration, fair conditions of the match in the economy, the actions of the judiciary and the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens. Corruption is a social evil that requires a systematic and constant effort. Fighting corruption is neither easy nor easy work. What needs particular attention on this occasion is the rule of law and the effectiveness of the rule of law. And although the repression of corruption cannot be carried out only through measures of persecution and punishment, it is estimated that the system of detection, judgment and punishment is one of the key elements not only to pursue corruption but also to stabilise the legal system in general. The general task of improving the conditions of the judiciary shall include the tasks of stabilising the judicial system which has begun and which in no way should be stopped or slowed down. The legitimacy of the judiciary and the confidence of citizens in the justice and efficiency of the judiciary is the assumption of an orderly legal order, therefore, and the suppression of corruption. However, key factors are certainly not material, but they are exactly the opposite, immaterial. The Code of Ethics has been adopted in the State's Attorney's Office, according to the Law on Courts, the obligation awaits judges. But to this day, it seems to me that the deadline has not yet expired, but somewhere in the middle of this year, that code is also to be passed. Police and judicial action is not effective, therefore, without public support, but that public support exists. However, there is no public support without free and active press. The strategy therefore implies the simultaneous use of different measures of activity but, in any case, stricter punishment and we are pleased that the Government is just turning its thoughts and looks and its action towards what is sooner and the coalition and the SDP later continued to represent, in particular, through the reform of the criminal justice system. For years, the whole series of events, both in the judiciary administration, have been drawing public attention to the open issues of its functioning, its independence, and the whole series of events that confuse them. The corruption of any public official is evil in itself, but the corruption of a judicial official is infinitely worse. Thus, it is a whole series of dangers both executive and legislative but above all, the judicial authority needs to find an answer. However, corruption that I want to draw particular attention isn't just giving a blue envelope. Corruption, or the fight against corruption, means democratisation of a society that is measured at several levels. First of all, the first thing in the world is considered an election process. But if we get experience from the 2005 presidential elections, then here's how recently we're about to get back on track because of electoral manipulation and the vote of dead souls in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The second is the area of civil society, which has been assessed not to have improved but to be reversed. The latest data, therefore, suggests that the political government again reaches out to establish certain control over civil society. The latest data on the almost vengeful abolition of financial support to significant NGOs such as GONG, BABE and... will only further reduce Croatia's ratings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Independent media is a third area, and democratic processes in them are also on a downward path, taking into account police spy repression that has just led in some way, i.e. to experience its peak in the case of journalist Helena Puljiz. Then we have an area of governance and politics to make it transparent, predictable, calculating, that's good government. And the same fight against bureaucracy, still about the stop shop is just being talked about. So this is one call not only to institutions but to all because in the fight against corruption they cannot be uninterested. Croatia is saying, I repeat again on this plan significantly advanced in the formal part but Croatia must simply learn to live what it says. Then it'll be a lot easier for us, then we won't complain all the time that Europe is pushing us, that we're the hostages of this situation or that situation. We have simply been hostages to the imagination of our own policy, or our own delusions of a possible, dual policy on individual issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30969	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30970	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I just wanted to correct the incorrect assumption that the jump on the 2001 scale was due to the adoption of the laws at the time, or the fall of some kind that now says in 2004 that it was the result of the 2004 event. In a few days, the leaders of Croatian statistics will come to you to explain nicely that on all the world tables that are coming are at least two years old. So if we move it in two years, then it's a different situation than the colleague wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30971	Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30972	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. What to say about corruption there are more definitions which corruption is the shortest said corruption is the cancer of the early Croatian society. Great social evil or simplify the putting of private interests ahead of general interests. Even the Holy See is by its Act of 1.1. In 97, she declared corruption a sin and evil. And now, first of all, I will speak on behalf of the Club from the point of view of Croatia's assessment of the situation regarding the fight against corruption that we lack. Because by reading this bill of law and the assessment of the situation and everything else, we're great, we've got everything arranged on the one hand and corruption on the other. 1 to 2% of Croatian citizens have become enormously rich, 98% are basically survivors. Poverty is getting bigger and bigger. We've lost the middle layer, some won't admit it, but if we look at how many citizens we are in charge of Croatian banks and that's over 60 billion kuna, and when it comes to payment, then those citizens will be poor too. And we have become in the fullest sense of the word in this work of fighting corruption in the country of paradox. The first paradoxes are the ones that we have listened to today are representatives of party clubs that have been or have been in power, who speak beautifully, which should be what corruption should be like and what should be done, and on the other hand, we know that they have not achieved much in their mandate, or almost nothing. Because corruption remains on the rise in Croatia. We have a variety of types and forms of corruption, and in this Croatia can say a huge number of examples. And now this paradox has happened, so on the one hand, the legal framework is also phenomenal, and it's listed here that we have everything from the criminal law of legal liability, the law on conflict prevention, interest. The law on the protection of witnesses, the Labour Act, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, we have both programs and national everything we have in abundance and corruption is growing stronger and stronger. Someone tell me examples of where we've achieved the results in the fight against corruption. There's no telling me, and how many affairs were there about conflict of interest were in the form of privatisation, of conversion, which is still the worst form of corruption because this is also the form of organised crime where we have achieved if the state results. Where someone is sanctioned by someone who, based on corruption, has come into a situation that has been illegally enriched, has not illegally impoverished Croatian workers, Croatian pensioners, Croatian defenders. Unfortunately, we don't have any such examples. And when we have five of those examples and those big capitals, then we can say that we are going to fight and this is a determined fight against corruption. And look what other paradoxes are, so on the one hand we have a legal framework, on the other hand on a scale of corrupt countries we're making progress. We're making progress. And that's the only place we're making progress. Still, where all the paradoxes are being viewed, it is seen that those who have acquired the property thanks to corruption now are the greatest fighters to establish the rule of law and the principle of rule of law for a simple reason because what they have illegally acquired is intended to legalise. And they're benefactors now, they contribute, if we have to take that glamour into HNK, let's take that glamour one number of those who attended was involved in conversion and privatisation. What are the results we're going to discuss at this session about the State Audit Office report, the very fact that there were over 5m euros worth of clocks on that glamour yesterday, which a watchmaker in Trešnjevci told me about this huge glamour. Because these are the watches that you like the stones on numbers 12, 6, 3 and 9. And that's only $5 million to you. Yeah, 5 million euros is just worth not talking about these other things. And now they're beware of the benefactors. They'll donate if they need for this part, for that part. My priest don. Lucky for me, he never wanted a tycoon who didn't pay off an employee who came to the property to receive a charity for the church. He told him, pay your workers first, don't give me charity first, pay your workers. But the sad thing is that even such charity is growing more and more, they are the cream of Croatian society. And why are the creams of Croatian society because we didn't do anything. In fact, we as parliamentary representatives rather than draw a line and say today let's declare war to corruption but by forces and means where we're going to achieve results. And that's what the results are. Let's do the following, let's agree when we discuss the State Audit Office's report on the most recent and worst form of corruption that has happened in Croatia, it also means on the basis of organised crime. Let's agree not to show the following that there will be more expensive spending related to making reports. Because the auditors of the State Audit Office have spent a lot of time and means material and other costs, if we don't do anything about it again, there will be that number of 386 thousand lost jobs, a small part that has been spent in a legitimate way, and no one has eaten a donkey wolf. And that's why we're having all these discussions if we don't take appropriate measures, reminds us of that old Latin sentiment, crow crows don't take their eyes out. We can't let that happen because listening to all those attacks between the shootings between the parties' clubs that were in power if we remain in this work we won't achieve anything. Today we have an example of corruption, let's say in the Vecernji list how much the exam costs in college, talks from 200 to 1200 euros. We had yesterday the case of Mr. Vrhovnik, who openly accused four former and current SDP leaders that they caused the bankruptcy of Viktor Lenco this time is not about the four-member gang as in China but is about 5 people. And we have such examples from day to day. The only thing that's going on is that the media is trying to do something about various civil associations. But we need to be aware they don't have the strength and power they can indicate and that's what we in HSP and the media are thanking. Because in this way at least they try to create a healthy group that will fight, point out, but if everything remains on display and even one piece of information about corruption is chasing other information, and nothing is done in any case, nothing will be solved that situation that has already happened that we will have fighters for the rule of law who have exploited and led the conversion and privatisation in the way that it has been implemented and that we will have an even greater number of disproved workers. You know for a fact that whoever points to corruption in the field of work and work relations that will reach it will be fired because we have done nothing and now we will have the opportunity to amend and supplement the Labour Protection Act of whistles etc. We will have opportunities to say what we will do about the State Audit report we will have a lot to do but we will have nothing unless we agree to start implementing the laws in Croatia and to start doing what both the pensioner and the developed defender and the peasant and the worker expect us here in the Croatian Parliament to be the leaders of the fight against corruption, not to participate in corruption in a way that we vote the laws. One of the laws that is the form of corruption will be that, by voting the law, amending and supplementing the Law on Postage, we will give Croatia the postal exclusive, the monopoly on these up to 100 grams of letters, and after two years we will have to comply with the directives, the legal gains of the European Union to mean someone after two years gets everything on a plate. Here's what we all do, and if we don't agree to start implementing the measures again, we'll listen to the declarative debates, and we'll say this, and we'll say that. And the interesting thing is that Croatia is proud of it, and we all are glad that it is a country of Catholicism, and yet we forget that the Holy chair has said and declared corruption a sin and evil, and those same ones who participated in corruption are first on Sundays at Mass, first give charity, they will help the blind, they will help this, they will help everyone. And whose money? The Croatian poor worker, a defender who has no exits and does not surprise us with the number of suicides and we will enjoy our discussions with declarative bickering and corruption will only continue to grow in this country. But that's why I say we draw a line to declare war on corruption and sanction every form of corruption first and foremost the biggest one from conversion and privatisation, and then we can punish a grandmother who sells old pants on the market. Then we can punish her too, but first we punish the capitalists, restore the people's trust in the rule of law and bring back to the state that suck-up capital, because you know the former coalition government has promised to fill the prisons, to withdraw the money from abroad, and they've made it so that even the Privatisation Act hasn't changed. Here's the Privatisation Act hasn't changed. Therefore, on behalf of the HSP Club, we call off the words let's move on to action.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30973	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30974	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a series of incorrect allegations, but one of the ones that repeats itself by energy is that the middle layer is gone. Namely, every 20th Croatian resident in the last 2 years bought a car, every 20th was skiing this year, not to say I know countless people who didn't buy a car and they could, they weren't skiing and they could. And if we're talking about a loan and one piece of information a few days ago that the savings went up, I think it's 17%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30975	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30976	It is incorrect to identify the university community with corruption that would result from what counterpart Kovacevic was saying about buying exams at the university. And as for his traditional apparatus and the mention of the four-member gang, I'd like his terminology to be less burdened with the terminology of the Communist Party of China. And speaking of the declarative nature of the debate, then he did well in teaching himself to abandon empty words.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30977	And Shime Luchin, the correction of the false precept, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30978	Well, there were a number of incorrect allegations. I think it is unacceptable that in the Croatian Parliament no matter what we think of glamorous performances in a certain way it says that all those who have been there or had expensive watches on their hands that they are criminals, that they are prone to corruption, because actually generalising that they are all entrepreneurs, that all politicians are corrupt leads us to never get into a situation to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30979	Not MP Kovacevic generalised, he said some had had these 5 million-million-dollar watches or, some, some. ... Some were who didn't have such watches. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honored representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired Party Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30980	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Retired Party welcomes the confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption because we believe that the fairness of the system and the functional capacity of the state to calculate with everything illegally acquired is a fundamental prerequisite to set moral standards and a system of values without which it is not possible to cure Croatian society from a disease called corruption, which is all present in all pores of Croatian society. We are bribing, bribery, corruption, buying synonyms and covering for appearances all around us and giving and receiving money and privileges. The only ones who have been convicted in advance of corruption, so in advance, are politicians, and most of all my colleagues and colleagues. I don't agree with that. I don't agree with that. I don't agree with that. Our rights are public and limited against the extended belief that we are allowed by representatives and MPs. I can talk about it because I didn't ask for politics. She found me. I've lived without her, and I could live without her again, and I've accepted the challenge, I've got the trust, and I want to justify it, and that's all. No calculations, no speculation. Unfortunately, however, in Croatia, privileges and money are determined almost everything. It determines the place of daily or weekly newspapers at the kiosk, which will take a visible place, who will be admitted to a working relationship, which will determine specialisation and education, the order of payment of accounts in companies, especially if they operate with a loss. This is just a drop in the sea of emerging forms that depict the corruption of Croatian society as a whole. Some of the privileges are, unfortunately, the law and the expense of the poor and the disfellowshipped and excluded layers of Croatian society. I have just asked a parliamentary question regarding the return of some of the paid, more paid contributions from pension insurance which I consider a privilege for an elite minority of 890 Croatian citizens. Confirming the convention is just a small step in fighting corruption, and whoever thinks we've solved something significant with this, I think they're wrong. I am not proud at all of the fact that from tomorrow or when we put forward this proposal for a law confirming the Convention in the company of Algeria, Benin or Salvador, Kenya, Madagascar, Mexico, Peru, Namibia, Romania, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Uganda, although I highly respect the countries mentioned in the context of historical facts and natural beauty and social order. I would prefer that we do not need this convention at all at this time, that we are in a small but selected society in the company of Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands. We in Croatia have a situation that we cannot create a positive entrepreneurial climate, and that will be as long as there is a valid rule if it can't be otherwise, then we will work according to the law. Such climates do not favour honest and quality entrepreneurs but resourceful, and especially profit by intermediaries. It is common for entrepreneurs to complain that actually those who regularly comply with their obligations to the state according to the bills issued, so they pay taxes, are punished. For a client who does not pay the goods or services within the scheduled time limit, there is no adequate quick payment instrument, which makes him actually profit at the expense of the other. What to say about state-owned or county-owned institutions where payment order is not respected, i.e. there is a circle of favored suppliers of food, equipment, energy, while liabilities to the state are accumulated and accounts are eventually issued to the taxpayers of Croatia with a requirement to simplify payments for pension and health insurance. Look at the county hospitals, look who's sitting in the boards and who's finally paying the bills. Please take a look and pay the bills. Please take a look at the director's salary in institutions that accumulate losses. What we're going to do with companies that have had all the conditions to launch bankruptcy for ten years, and they're doing business through a sister's company or a daughter. Who's protecting himself here? Hidden owner, political director? One thing I'm sure of, I'm sure a special social interest isn't. No structure of Croatian society is immune to any form of corruption. In my work experience, I met the presidents of working, elected presidents of working councils, where the Labour Act states that they must not be privileged in any way, or must enjoy the salary of their jobs regardless of the function they were elected to, which was offered a contract of work with the coefficient that they signed neatly, and this was silenced by the Employment Council and trade unions. And if you want to intervene inside, you have a lot of enemies. So no structure is immune from corruption. Furthermore, the granting of contracts in a concession. I have one experience where in Italian shipbuilding that is state-owned, employers and trade unions decide to give concession jobs together. It's never happened since he and I co-determined that he could win the contest if there was only one offer. He never got the one who made the smallest offer or the one who made the biggest offer. These two were always the first to be excluded from the competition, and in any event the competition appreciated the one who had references, the one who did not just sell the workforce when he was getting a job under concession, so those who really had their facilities and their means of work and were qualified to do that job and of course respected workers' rights. What we will do in Croatia with quality projects that we have at the level of municipalities, cities and counties, which can't come to the light of the day because they haven't approved them or are not in the interest of the governors of cities, municipalities or counties. The political monopoly that we have in Croatia today is a function of favouring the development of corruption, not of preventing it. We must amend the electoral law and the political monopoly must not be in the role of the electoral law, in the role of increasing corruption, i.e. we must avoid possible political monopoly. What will we do with obtaining material benefits from groups or individuals who are possible for the purpose of having information? On several occasions, we saw stock showing up on the stock market and selling in half an hour at exactly the same price. Everyone says it's all within the law, but the offer was only given by one who has information because only at that moment did those shares find themselves on the stock market before and after. It's all by law, but it's still a big game and a public delusion. For us in Croatia, the party of pensioners, the fight against corruption is not only a matter of the government of individual ministries or institutions, but it is the task of all social structures. This is because corruption is the malignant tissue of society, and the fight against corruption from the whole of society is the way to self-healing that society. As young societies, as a young country created with great victims on difficult occasions, our next task is to build a society, we have a state, we have a society to build and build, and we have to build it to the extent of all Croatian citizens, and not just some. Without deep communication with its citizens, it is impossible to even know the forms of corruption, and without it, without knowing the forms of corruption, it is impossible to design and realise the fight against corruption. In the fight against corruption, the following patterns of conduct cannot exist in one society. First of all, anything that is not prohibited by law is allowed. It can't exist in this society if we're really going to fight corruption. Second, he better take ours than fuhresht. Such a rule cannot exist in a society if we fight corruption. If this issue were taken seriously in Croatian society, this bill would certainly be on the agenda of the plenary session after the discussion of the revision of conversion and privatisation, and would normally be in the parliamentary benches of the entire government. The message we send today from this Chamber is very pale and is not a major contribution to the fight against corruption in Croatia and does not define it as a political priority. The Croatian Party of Retired Persons will support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, vote for it and will actively participate in the fight against corruption at all levels through participation in government at all levels by including all the structures of society. We will also in this House, and also in this House we will remind and insist on fulfilling the obligations we have made by confirming this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30981	Thank you. I am reporting that at 10.42, it is time to apply for a ten-minute debate on this subject. The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30982	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Proposer. On behalf of the HSS Club, that is, when almost all clubs are solidarity on one topic, and almost one significant talk about it, then it can be claimed that the topic is either too serious or that we all have the same view, the same views on the subject. Obviously, this is one of those topics that takes up such a solidarizing meaning and really corruption is neither from today nor yesterday. It is as old as organized society and it has been handled by all social systems, all systems, but it is evident that the future will also be marked and surrounded by the same danger of corruption. It's not Croatia, you know, that's the one that's ahead of it and that's the first place in it. Because often it could have been the same way through the views of certain clubs that the situation in us was almost different from that in some other countries. I think there are countries in the European Union where the situation is worse than in Croatia. But, of course, this must not satisfy because corruption is one social, political and economic evil and any generalization that has been present in ways of thinking is not good. Because generalizing something we want to seriously solve, of course, is not the right way. According to us at the HSS Club, corruption has its own face and face. It is, it is interpreted differently, and it is precisely doing this diversity of its appearance form that should be seen. We have it in the form of a citizen who becomes in the conditions of social life in which Croatia today is a necessary participant of this system of corruption. Why? Well first of all, habits, real conditions, poverty condition you know when someone gets sick, when you want to train your child, and you don't have the opportunity to know how to get to it because the usual legal norms and systems are often not enough to get the same legal status as all citizens should have. And yet it is your child and you will do absolutely everything that you do even if you have predisposition for something in it and succeed. And it's the least evil from the aspect of social evil. Of course, it is unbearable as the moral label of a society. It warns, but there is something that generates this evil, in social, in political and economic terms, which is the system. A state, a power that generates and in some ways reproduces relations that end in a chain of corruption. Of course, the whole world's dealing with it. My colleague counted it, and I'm going to say it's a little strange, that out of 113 countries signed this Convention more than a year ago, there's a colleague, Ingrid, who said she was present at that act, that only 13 countries, 12 countries, I'm not going to count them for courtesy as a colleague did, not wanting to hurt him either. But I think it also speaks of one seriousness at the International Community level and apparently some rules are written in the United Nations, to be applied exclusively in some three, let's call them countries. Of course, the International Community knows ways of conduct, but we don't do this and we don't bring it here for them. We bring this for ourselves. We want to arrange our house and we want those laws that are passed in this House to be applicable and equal to everyone. Of course, the second question is how this corrupt chain refers to the executive, legislative or judicial authority. Different, but equally painful. Because it's equally painfully defeative and almost incorrectible to bring here a law that is bad, which is not just because then it created a sin structure. Something that was a lot of talk in the Croatian public. Of course, some think that in the judicial system, it's the worst. She's bad everywhere. She's as bad as anywhere, and that's exactly how it's supposed to be discussed. I would say something about another aspect that also has an earthquake or a significant impact on both the political and social climate and the economic climate, especially in transition countries, especially in countries that have not worked out their economic or political system to the end to be both resilient and effective and to know to oppose in a positive sense all those claims that come in a normal, open, liberal and democratic world. In fact, some institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, such as the World Trade Organisation, mean respectable institutions that are expected to help developing countries, help poor countries, or at least be equal for all. At times, at times, they were not the best and the best to do their homework. And that's why there was and there's a very significant conflict, right on that line. First of all, these institutions sent a message to the transition world, hence Croatia in 90. Privatize everything and do it quickly. Liberalise everything, first of all, legislation. Maintain a solid course of your currency. Do not allow inflation, and we will allow you to open up your market for our products, even if these products are worse or more questionable. And that happens, gentlemen. Today, Croatia is exposed to this form of risk which has its own links to the form of corruption because the most vital function of our country is at risk, which is production. Because the foundation on which every economic and health system is built is compromised. Therefore, building and protecting its own market system, its own economies, its own economic resources are the cornerstone of the protection of a single society because it is the cornerstone of the protection of citizens' standards. Of course, it is a topic that our neighbours of the Slovenians, who, by the way, are very well on the list on which we do not stand well, who have not accepted such views of the IMF and other agencies that have cared, under quotes, about the health of new nations, but who have gradually and non-liberalised their capital, valuable and other social-owned stakes passed a slow transition path in which they have solidified their economic base, sought new markets, ensured their own production to supply these markets with their own products, and today they pass as solid equal partners, as capable and powerful as part of a world called the European Union, which they belong today to be able to handle in an equal market match, precisely with them. You'll allow it, that's the difference between us. Let's just say the fact that I have to mention here, how we treat ourselves, also gets into this area of work and action. The famous Protocol 7, which is one of the very important negotiating parts that Croatia is negotiating with the European Union, which is also the most sensitive package of these negotiations, still do not have gentlemen in Croatian or cannot be obtained. So it's his, that agreement is exclusively in English. So I am surprised by yesterday's "Open" show, which said that the negotiations would also be held in agriculture for the sake of sensitivity or for the structure of those who will run those negotiations in Croatian. And neither is the agreement that has already been signed and that has come into effect from today we do not have it, but in English. I'm not an anti-European, and I think you should know the languages, but Damir needs to love his own language. Therefore, I just want to say that the seriousness of my own approach is that of the seriousness that the world sees us. And we cannot talk about this subject, corruption as a emerging form does not look back on those most prominent examples that certainly affect both the legislative sphere and the executive sphere, which are the deepest intruding and represents a black stain of the new Croatian state, which is privatisation, the Law on Privatisation, the consequences of privatisation and everything that has been adopted. The fact that no government changed that law does not say that it is good, but that there was no courage, will, and political determination to do so. But all of those facts that have been presented by colleagues and which warn that it is in this embryo that a major negativeity that has equally affected the sphere of politics has been collected, because it has created a divergence of trust between citizens and politicians, which has hit the economic sphere, because it has slowed down development, because it has developed a social gross product, because it has stopped production and allowed the lobbyist import apparatus to conquer the Croatian market. But also to the social sphere that has experienced a complete poverty from which all or most of the social conflicts have arisen. That is why, by discussing this issue, we must fight for the applicability of what we bring here, but before that, we must fight to ensure that what we bring is equally good for all and that the debate in these important laws that we are making, because this is our area of responsibility for fighting corruption, the adoption of laws. And I do not think that lobbying should necessarily represent something bad, lobbying in the general interest that, yes, and that is also the task of always encouraging certain changes, certain different thinking that should serve a common and general goal, which is a better quality of life in Croatia and better relations in the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30983	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30984	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Well, Croatia, and everyone said when corruption is done, it doesn't look very good. Now whether we have fallen or not, which year is now less important, it is important that in Croatia there is. When I see from the other side of the country that has been ratified by this convention that we are now talking about, and I will do it for their courtesy, unlike Mr Markov, and I will name it Algeria, Benin, El Saviador, Kenya, Magadask, Mexico, Peru, Namibia, Romania, good Algeria, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Uganda as if the world and these countries were sort of mocking the United Nations. Ms. Anticevic said that Croatia has always preceded the signing and ratification of such conventions, that is correct. It's just that we didn't get much of an exercise later. But there's one good thing about this convention, and that's why it needs to be ratified because it doesn't have a so-called. a selective approach that is normally ruled in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about Croatia, when we talk about corruption in Croatia, then mostly, and something Mr. Hrelja said about it, we think about ministers, about MPs and now the story ends, and I say there are fewer than in other segments of society, whether it's about justice, whether it's about state administration, whether it's about big state-owned companies, state-owned media houses, etc. For example, in one such house there must be 300 people who have higher incomes, but the ministers in the Croatian government and I am glad, but those 16.17 thousand kunas how much the minister's salary is blasphemy. What I mean. Croatia has laws against corruption. Now the other thing is, does this system work? There is Croatia and BUSKOK, but apart from some self-disclosure, I don't know what they're serving. We have the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, we have the Law on Access to Information, the Witness Protection Act, that would be the whistles, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, Public Procurement, etc. In one word, we have laws such as one Italy, or Austria, and yet in Croatia there is corruption as there is in one Italy or Austria, although Italy is probably not some example, but Austria should be where corruption in the public administration almost does not exist. There is Croatia and so on. The 2001 action plan against corruption, and nobody mentions it, nor do we know what's in it today. Article 2 subparagraph (a) defines the concept of a civil servant. I think it is an important part of this Convention and I will quote it "that a civil servant also means any person who performs legislative, executive, administrative or judicial service of the State State Party, whether appointed or elected, whether it does so permanently or occasionally for wages or without pay, regardless of the hierarchy of that person and any other person who performs a public service including if it makes you a public agency or a public undertaking or provides public services as defined in the domestic law of a State. However, for the purposes of certain concrete measures referred to in Chapter 2 of this Convention, the notion of a civil servant may mark any person performing a public service or providing public services as defined in the domestic law of the State of the Party and as applicable in the respective areas of the State of the Party's right." It's done. It's a quote. That's where it's supposed to come from. We can now call on the fish to be cleaned from the tail, to smell of the head, but we only deal with one narrow category, and only to the state officials when corruption is Wednesday, means representatives, ministers, and this convention defacto touches for the first time so precisely nearly 200 thousand people on the state salary. I repeat, the MP can neither have an official phone nor we 60-70% at all have our own table, about cards similar to drivers that we don't speak and yet for everything that happens in this society is called representatives which the note bene in my court most corresponds to the executive authority because the more representative power is weaker that is executive power stronger and that is, in my opinion, devastating, the more we advocated that a semi-presidential system be replaced by parliamentary even if we finally got a semi-parliamentary. I certainly won't be able to run any civil servant but every medium wants what's not bad for the media, for society as a whole, but it's tragic to marginalize the people's representatives. You can also say that there is no country where the role of MPs is "weaker" than the one in which we are. And in the end, you know what's gonna happen to us? That large capital will fully prevail, manage this country. If something was finally corruption that everyone was talking about before me it was conversion and privatisation but the essences of this process are today the pillars of society. In one word, they have become untouchable today. We are dealing with marginals and the social evils involved will decide tomorrow who will be mayor, mayor, mayor, minister, etc. It's a Croatian destiny. That's why partothocracy, as ugly as it sounds, was less evil than this bourgeoisie condion that we had a chance to look at in HNK recently. In particular, it will come, my court, to the local elections. Article 5 refers to anti-corruption policy. So, for once again in public service from MPs to ministers, from INA directors to members of the Council of Croatian Radio Television, from civil servants to editors in state media, from judges or judges to state attorneys, from mayors to members of a head office, from professors to doctors, from police officers to inspectors, from generals to NGOs funded by state money. So for all of them, according to this convention we adopt, the same principle of property cards to so-called property cards must apply. the statement of origin of its assets, the public receipts, etc. Then let the people control. Mrs. Antunovic was just before she was quoting Champio. She said or he said she meant her life.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30985	Marinović, not Mrs. Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30986	Excuse me, yes. There's a death to be cast out. I wouldn't say more death than public control. Thus, all those who are thus covered by this Convention must exercise their lives out of public control, but this must also apply to those who are engaged and rightly control all of these people from journalists to Article 6 so-called. bodies which must be formed for that purpose. Article 11 refers to the judiciary and the measures which can be implemented in this respect against them. Article 12 refers to the private sector, the R & D sector, the controls, etc. but all consistent with domestic laws, domestic standards. Once again, I would like to say this Convention deals with and is dominantly engaged in civil servants, and it is simple to define them that they are all those who are on the state's salary or who work in state-owned companies or local self-government. Such people in the Republic of Croatia, I repeat, have at least 200 thousand. Article 22 shall verify the assets in the private sector. It's not that our law doesn't know him, but he's most interesting to do, for example, declaring bankruptcy that he was talking about. to avoid obligations and things like that. I repeat, whistles are here in 32nd, 33rd article well protected by this convention, as I said, mostly ratified by small countries, only 12 of them. Whether Croatia will be 13. that's what we'll see. The IDS will absolutely vote in favour but to assume that some serious countries have not ratified it because of corruption in international bodies or because of Chapter IV. which speaks of international cooperation, extradition, transfer of convicted persons, etc. The countries simply do not like to have a third perhaps even more corrupt than they are involved in the legal order and, above all, they will not agree to this by rich and orderly countries, despite the fact that some rich countries can hardly be an example to the Republic of Croatia. Another reason why this convention has not been ratified by rich countries is that in one place it has simply been thrown all the way from police cooperation, judicial cooperation, judicial cooperation, administrative cooperation, etc. and to assume that in one year, a Canadian who adopts a dozen laws or ten amendments to the law and who takes care of each score will be difficult to adopt one such convention that has only 71 articles but is somewhat tenantly engaged in all aspects of public life. This Convention is open until 9.12.2005 and will take effect when it is ratified by 30 countries. I believe that, I think they'll collect these 30 ratification papers, but you'll see that the richest countries will find it difficult to join one of these initiatives. In such rich countries, however, it should be recognised that corruption is the least recognised and is almost gone. We're in IDS to clearly regulate game rights once and for all the same without anyone being able to do anything and nothing else. Unfortunately, corruption has been, corruption will be but the richer the state, the more civil servants who will work in public administration, hospitals and the better they will be paid for it in the country. But everyone who thinks is the most corrupt in high politics is wrong. It may have been 90th when it was to be privatized or converted to 2 thousand 500ths. social enterprises but I believe that today is much, much less than at some lower levels. Finally, let us clearly regulate all these rules of conduct although it is clear to all of us that more rights in Croatia at this time have one who has more money. It's just proportional to that. The more money a man has, the more rights he has, the less "obligation." As for the political monopoly that Mr Hrelja spoke of, I agree that it is necessary to amend the Election Law in a way that goes towards direct elections, but it must also be inadmissible for people in the media to go to elections and to parallelly lead and certain emissions in electronic or other media because it is slowly becoming a hypocrisis in my court simply unacceptable. As far as county hospitals are concerned, they're all a Croatian problem, from pulse to pulse. I can't run these institutions in one word. Budget of Istria County 200 million kuna general hospital around 220 to 240 million kuna. The County of Istria has 100 employees in the self-government district, Pula General Hospital 1100 employees. And this law that transfers this obligation and that burden to the county is absurd, and that should be changed as soon as possible to believe some I.D. anomalies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30987	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30988	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, as we can see, there is no one against the adoption of this United Nations Convention on Corruption. But there is hardly anyone who does not wonder, what is the real benefit of both the conventions and their ratifications if, if there are no effective, effective procedures, attempts to contain that corruption. Corruption is the greatest evil for some society, I don't know if it's even bigger. Why? So it destroys all social relations, it abolishes citizens' trust in the system institutions, lifts confidence in politics, in that force in a society that is obliged to fight corruption. And the more corruption in one society, the more trust in politics, the less globally every policy. There is no entry of foreign capital into highly corrupt countries because capital has no confidence, there is no security of entry into society where it knows that jobs will be able to receive not in an equal competition but only by giving bribes. There is no entry of foreign capital or into those societies where there is no legal certainty if that legal certainty is violated by corruption. How do you fight corruption? First and foremost, political will is needed, not only by the government but by all political factors in one country. In this respect, this fight against corruption needs to be seen as a national interest and approached by an over-supervised nature. 'Cause look, when corruption breaks down, she, when she's the most dangerous, she's dangerous everywhere, she's dangerous in health care, she's dangerous in school, but when she's the most dangerous? When affected by the institutions of state authorities, whether it is legislative, executive or judicial authority. When it comes to the legislative authority, then it is likely that corruption can be achieved at least because the legislative authority in Croatia has even the least power. She simply makes decisions that are difficult to please, so that she can receive bribes for such favoring. The executive authority is more exposed in this regard because it simply makes operational decisions that can benefit someone and harm someone. But when it comes to judicial corruption, it should be noted that this is still a taboo issue in Croatia today. Nobody wants to talk about it in public, or when they talk publicly, they don't want to talk openly. And most of all because of the independent position of the judicial authority. Every public speech in the judiciary is objecting by the justice apparatus itself to be touched by it in the independent position of the judiciary. Minister Ivanisevic, the former government minister, has openly said that corruption exists in parts of our judiciary, he said, but also reneged on the inability to deal with the corruption. And today's Justice Minister Mrs. Skare-Ozbolt is aware of the situation, which stems from her numerous statements, I would say she is determined to go into battle with this corruption but is also powerless. The Minister has no authority with us, he... What can the Minister of Justice do? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To replace the President of the Court, that's all his authority, all his authority. He just doesn't have... effective enough to get into a fight with corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's an example of this judge Domic. What could the Minister have done? Change her, that's all. Further to the DSV, to relieve her of judicial duty. And where's the biggest responsibility? In politics. To warn the problem, to say that Judge Domic's example is not isolated, to warn of the width of the problem. Because that's the only way we're gonna be able to sensitize the public and create that critical mass that can be calculated with evil. And there are serious indications that organized crime, the mob, has gone into the line with part of a judicial apparatus, with part of a judicial apparatus. Of course not with the whole legal apparatus. In Croatia there are a large, maximum number and high-quality and fair judges but with part of the apparatus this string has been achieved. Which the mob would trade in drugs when it's too risky, or with weapons, when it's much simpler to trade in human judgments. You know, we had a case in Croatia to beat up a bank manager because he didn't pay... He got a baseball bat on his head and the manager of the other bank who also wouldn't give up his money, and they got the money by a court ruling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, baseball bats weren't necessary. Why is curbing corruption in the judiciary the most difficult task? Look, if corruption happens in politics, then political parties already act there as controller of each other, they warn for their political reasons that corruption has occurred, with officials of another party because they find their own political interest in finding such a situation. And independent media is both correct and beneficial. It also happens in health care or in part of the bureaucratic apparatus. But when there is a crouption in the judiciary, then every warning about it is interpreted as an attack on the independence of the judiciary. And especially if this warning comes from politics and whether it comes from parliamentary or executive authorities. And that's the paradox of that weight. There is no fight, effective with judicial corruption if this particular policy and parliamentary and executive authority together will not go into the fight. Those most called upon to threaten the independence of the judiciary are the most called upon to lead the fight. When can they do that? Only if they act uniquely. Because you know if the government goes into this and the opposition starts negotiating with her to interfere with the judiciary, none of that struggle. Or vice versa. If any of the opposition parties warn about it and then the government says don't let it go, it's a dependent judicial apparatus don't get in the way of that fight, then nothing. Therefore, if we want to be effective, if we are to eradicate this evil then it will not be enough to sign the ratification of the conventions, then it will have to take the most serious action, consensually in the national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30989	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30990	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, it is doubtful that the Croatian Parliament will support the adoption of a law confirming the United Nations Convention against Corruption. It's just not realistic to expect. But it is a convenient opportunity to talk about corruption in your own country and from your own perspective on the matter because simply in Croatia, some research of corruption or at least there is not enough or enough to talk about corruption is not public enough. And if there was a basis for speaking and giving a legal basis to act against corruption, there was. That's enough. And why it didn't work out effectively that should really be explored in a valid way, but I'm going to try the only possible way I'm experiencing this problem. So about the harmfulness of corruption, we shouldn't all be talking about it. But who she hits the most. Who gets hit the most by corruption. In my court, there were conditions for the fight to be more effective, to make the state more efficient, and to be less corrupt in Croatian society. Why? It's just that one part of the privatisation is over. And this was a great media excellent social media that in order to say the process which simply lured corruption, especially what took place in Croatian and what it determined the future of social layers and what set out the schedule of forces in Croatian society especially after the privatisation of Croatian banks was completed. And if we look at things that way now the new rich elite of Croatian society will wish to have a legal state simply to preserve their positions. Of course he won't agree much either. I'm entitled to the truth, but I'm looking at things that way. If we put it so now in the context of the previous week of work of the Croatian Parliament, we discussed the national programme for joining the European Union, and in this context I can say that national interests and interests of individual groups will not go away by entering the European Union itself. Something will change the protection, the way in which the national interests of individuals are protected, so the organisation of society and the training of the system will be the best obstacle to corruption in Croatia. But it will be a guarantee of the protection of national interests. For this reason, it is welcome to say, the UN act on the fight against corruption, which means that Croatia passed the law of the international law, hence the law of the higher order, and thus committed itself to accessing the planned action and the fight against corruption without delay. In addition to privatisation, which has certainly contributed to corruption in Croatian society, we must say that there are other systematic reasons for the spread of corruption in Croatian society especially if we look at the state administration. We have not yet embarked on a reform of the state administration, nor can we say that it is formed by the principles that must be established by the state administration. If we add that even state records are not established in a valid manner from ownership to shares, then it must be said that it is in the very system of feeding the conditions for corruption all the time. If the government doesn't have a program that will at least propagate in the way it has promoted its policy through media television and at least so much investment in fighting corruption if it has invested to reveal to citizens the success of its mandate in one year, I think the fight will be very ineffective. How citizens evaluate and how they can participate in the anti-corruption trade. Only if the information is available, if the visibility and transparency of the government's activities and authorities are fully present and accessible to citizens. In this case, media-exposed cases such as Bechtel, Sunny Hvar would not happen now, nor shifts in the state administration after the takeover of the government according to the list of all those who only shook hands with the previous government. Such circumstances must come to the public's ears and be constantly available to the public. Control and availability of information to Croatian citizens is simply not satisfactory. No matter what we have a legal basis for it. We have a legal basis or almost built legal system to fight corruption, and corruption in Croatian society strengthens. Because of the absolutely important part or important work of the state administration of the judiciary and the state administration, counterpart Stazic spoke about the untouchability of the courts when it comes to comments or the control of the public of court rulings. It simply cannot be excluded from the public control of no one and no part of the state government, no one and no part of the state government. In this context, I believe that the Convention or the Law on Confirmation is welcome to speak once again about the problem of corruption in Croatian society because the public must simply face this problem that threatens national interests in the context of accession to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30991	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Agent Professor Dr. Slaven Letica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30992	Dear Vice President Bebić, I will actually talk about quite principled things, the act of ratification and some key conceptual terminology issues in concrete law. The act of ratification or confirmation or approval of conventions by any international organisation shall be an act of showing consent by a Member State to that institution. In particular, there is one United Nations Convention to be confirmed by the Member States, in a particular case by 30 countries. There's a lot of people talking pretty critical about the circle of countries that did it before us, there's 12 of them. I've been in some of them and I can assure you that there are a lot smarter people out there than there are in our country. So, before I do, I would actually like to say that in this House there is an attempt to avoid the practice of negative contextualization of any country in the world when talking about anything or about ratification. So the act of approval of this Convention should be separated from the acts of application of this Convention, and that is one topic I will soon propose to this High House because I am in the conclusion of a large study of scales, types and explanatory models in Croatian society. This is one material of the 50 pages that I will refer to in the parliamentary procedure in probably 15 days, and should consider, on that occasion, the implications of the application of this ratified convention. These implications are multiple, and that is why I will talk about another problem encountered when reading this convention carefully. There he would also ask the representative of the ministry, namely the key term on which the convention rests is the term public off-fiction on being consequently translated into the text of the convention as a civil servant which is contrary to the meaning, intensity and essence of the concept of a public official. So, if this convention is to be applied in the Croatian legislative system, it would imply a change in the entire terminology apparatus. The concept of the state official is a great deal of trouble for the Croatian legislative apparatus because it has become historically obsolete. Generally, people read a little more recent literature. Here I will tell you in terms of an important digression these days on the trail of debate over alleged fraud in the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina has created a new hysteria towards the diaspora. And then the so-called. Serious politicians, unfortunately in that hysteria were also involved by the President of the Republic and then a few quasi theorists appeared... Tomb boy, just stay still. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, there have been several quasi of theorists who would have to read more recent literature, and above all I think of Vesna Pusic and Mirjana Kasapovic who opposed the idea of diaspora voting although the modern trend is everywhere in Europe, especially in Europe, that the diaspora must not only take away the right to vote but must be given the right to vote. And in that sense, when it comes to civil servants and government officials, our position is double. We have a duty indeed to the state, but we are civil servants and our responsibility must be to the public. So, I would ask the ministry not to falsify the meaning, intensity and essence of the convention itself, that the term public off-fial consequently translates as a civil servant, and then later, when the possible application of this convention is discussed, it may and may not apply in the state, the state may simply be competent to the United Nations as a large number of countries are competent, they ratify such conventions and have no intention of applying them at all. So in this sense, if it is to be applied in the Croatian legislative process, the three terms "public official", "state official", "public deputy" should be aligned with the letter and spirit of the convention. As far as the debate on corruption in Croatia is concerned, I would agree with, there are several debaters already talking about it, my personal experiences show that a system of strange form democracy has already developed in Croatia, as some kind of strange beak we might call "tacunocracy". "Tacunocracy" is a system of government in which some 50 tycoons have reached wealth by legal means, by some illegal means, by some criminal and some organized criminal means are the real owners in this country even though we have the illusion that we, as parliamentary advocates, decide something, we all know from direct experience that these 50 people determine the rules of the game in this country. As far as the debate itself is concerned about what is and who is corrupt about it, I will therefore give this whole material, but it is quite right that Mr Cain had a little debate about how, as Parliament's parliament as the least corrupt institution in Croatia. This is not a matter of common sense, the best known system of corruption, conflict of interest and the capture of a country in transition countries called Professor Hellman worked for the World Bank a large analysis of the state's capture system in all transition countries. Unfortunately, there is Croatia very high somewhere in 6th place, 6th, 7th place. And when it comes to levels of corruption of the biggest type, then the Croatian Parliament is in the best position. Behind the Croatian Parliament is the least corrupt institution of the Office of the President of the Republic, then, the Commercial Court, then the Criminal Court, and unfortunately the worst to the worst are party finances and is the worst position of the Central Bank. And finally, one word about the explotor model itself when it comes to transition corruption. Usually people think that this is a question of human nature, that Croats are more prone to corruption or I don't know, some parts of Croatia are prone to corruption, all serious corruption theorists prove the opposite of that the main source of corruption in all countries, especially in the transition countries of institutional structuring. After I've got the light, I'll say the last sentence. Unfortunately, and with one quite careless decision, the Croatian Parliament, the appointment of Antun-Zoran Petrovic to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which is, in fact, he agreed to do so, so he brought himself into a difficult conflict of interest because he is at the head of the Croatian Transparency International, so he should communicate quickly in that sense or resign there or here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30993	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30994	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respected colleagues and colleagues. I think that today in the Croatian Parliament the best possible way to demonstrate how corruption is being talked about with us. It is said, in principle, that it is generally spoken of as commendable, the politicians are aware that this topic cannot be avoided, since our public is sensitised, and we have had the opportunity to see that this is indeed the case when we enter Parliament, we are given brochures, there are various associations that really try to bring this problem to the fore, and we are simply expected from politicians that we are reading about this problem to talk about it. And indeed by following this debate, the 15 speakers he spoke about, and it will likely be that this situation will remain later, just talking about corruption and most of all within principle. This means that we will all express concern because we are very aware of all the negative consequences of the danger of corruption for this country's political life. It is clear to all of us that corruption actually means breaking up trust between citizens and politicians, that it simply creates a general impression that in all of these stories we are all equal, that corruption is certainly to gnaw the foundations of the country's economic system, that it threatens the social life of this country and around here and it stops this speech of ours on this subject. I say our mouths are full of anxiety, we're no less determined to do anything, so if we need to ratify this convention. I agree here with my colleague, Letica, that there is really no way to underestimate the countries that have done this before us, but I'm afraid now that next step that follows, and when we try our own determination, our fear for the future as the political, economic, social of this country, then things get a little harder. So there's always a problem with implementation. When you try to talk and some people who have tried to talk, specify on certain examples, then in all of us there is a very ideological edifice that every time we talk about ours, then we actually do very quickly replicate and we want to talk about others and I don't know how to talk about the privatisation of HT that I don't know how to talk about privatization of "Ine" or "Viktor Lenca" or "Sun Hvar" or already a whole series of examples we've been meeting for the past 15 years. Now it is again shown that this party's ideological involvability shows a certain tendency to be better or wiser, smarter, too much to be relativated after all, to stick to the principle level, because if you're talking about some other people's sins, then one such speech actually requires you to talk about your own leprosy in your own ranks, and that's not easy or simple, and it's finally not a desirable form of political behavior, speech and action. And then, of course, hypocrisy is one logical consequence of such a political, this ambivalence that on the one hand we are aware that the talk of corruption is not possible to avoid, but we are doing it with a very cunning rhetoric I say, where we are mostly expressing ourselves exclusively at this principle level, and if we tried... or some other side or some case open then we must actually be prepared to get a very fast replica that will show that the situation I don't know and within our party ideological environment is no better. But just every speech that tries to be concrete can always be very easily undermined by the fact that it's about rematch, that it's about the lack of some political or economic concepts and that in fact every team of particular situations that citizens are trying to fool themselves at last, I finally say that this very general impression is created that more or less everyone who is involved in politics is more or less the same and then, normally, it's no wonder that abstinence or abandonment from politics is an increasingly common consequence for our citizens who are simply not ready is not ready to be prepared for that kind of political behavior. But I also think, we must also be aware that an inheritance is not simply overcome. Certainly, we too have one spirit that is actually without one way... the behavior of all actors in our political, economic and social life is not possible. So we have to admit ourselves who hasn't met with the fact that you're looking for help when you go to college, in the long waiting list of doctors, in the course of employment, and that you almost really have a paradoxic situation that today when people get into college you don't have any candidates who don't have at least say one relationship. In fact, a very good one is actually created in some way a paradox that ultimately decides knowledge, and certainly not the strength of a certain relationship. But this is the situation that we face daily and that we ourselves have to admit and which in some way is the legacy of a fact that we have come out of that system that was still marked most often was called some kind of political or birthlikeness and that has conditioned exactly the kind of behavior that has failed to be eradicated in these 15 years and which is still quite dominant if not the predominant way of acting in our society. But what we can ourselves do here in some way to be honest with ourselves, here's this book by Mr. Neven Simac against corruption. Here on one page he quotes Milos Zeman, a man who before becoming president of the Czech government said that privatisation was carried out in the Czech Republic, corruption and nothing else. She created an atmosphere where it became a normal idea that you could get something for nothing. And just now privatisation is also a painful topic for our Croatian society. I remember that some elections have also been won with a very firm and clear promise that there will be a revision of that privatisation afterwards, and I can only remind you that we are being honest with each other, that we have not been honest. So you know there are some initiatives, initiatives there in October 2000 precisely in this necessity of reviewing conversion and privatisation that have been given up, because as someone else is going to do, it's really just that we were aware, that we were aware that a certain Pandora's box, or ghosts from the bottle, should not be released, and then normally that the situation that we have today is exactly the incentive of one such unscrupulous behavior and that our behavior is actually nothing more than one... inconsistency that we have been practicing it for quite a long time and then it just has to happen what is happening to us today, that corruption is present, that the only good thing that I say is public sensitizing and should be expected, I have listened to some people in the last few weeks, months very much watched Croatian television shows, were precisely dedicated to this topic, that of these people who were actually taking part of civil events, which were actually happening to themselves. If that's progress, I have to admit that I'm a little skeptical of that kind of progress, but also certainly that something that despite the paradigms of our at least public part has changed and what was previously impossible is now still becoming possible, and on the other hand we're going to have to open this topic as much as we're actually going to go to this sale of our own, selling our family silver, and how much is it really every time the willingness of any government to bow down to any request of a certain... institution actually... The kind of condition that we really return to that one again say the cynical joke of some Czech communist times when it's said to be, that the joke was that if you're not stealing the state, then you're actually stealing your own family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, we shouldn't be involved in this anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30995	Thank you very much. Next, Mr. Rade Ivas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30996	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. It is not doubtful that the Croatian Parliament will support the adoption of this Law. That's what we heard in individual club representatives' statements. But this is a moment to say more about corruption with us and in the world, about measures taken to combat this evil. There is no state in the world that is totally immune to corruption. Tragedy lies in the fact that in the region of Southeast Europe, in countries of transition corruption has become an epidemic and citizens accept it as something quite ordinary and use it as a powerful tool for their own benefit. We can define corruption as an abuse of authority for personal gain and as such leads to the collapse of all rules of fair combat. But corruption is not the same in its forms in all countries. In China, for example, there is a problem in bureaucracy that commercialises its administrative capacity while Europe suffers from lack of transparency in ensuring public practice or financing political parties. The rise in corruption in the world is evident, despite research data on the destructive effects it has. Fighting corruption is not only a moral fight against evil corruption but it is also a practical tool for democracy and social development. Under the Croatian government's programme, corruption is unacceptable, it is socially and politically evil. But according to the daily life in Croatia, corruption is normal, socially arranged and generally desirable. According to the international assessment, Croatia is located at a level of corruption of public services somewhere in the middle, and according to World Bank research, Croatia is on average less corrupt than other transition countries. The public change survey carried out in May 2003 shows the following: in corruption, health, judiciary and local authorities, and the high degree of corruption of citizens is also prescribed to the Government, the Parliament, the Privatisation Fund, the colleges, the Police and the Army. The most important causes of corruption are considered opportunities that allow corruption, the lack of laws and penalties, and citizens' habits of bribery. Among the ways to combat corruption is considered to be the reporting of assets of persons acting at the beginning or at the end of the term of office and the public availability of information on organised structure and business of public institutions and companies. The issue of anti-corruption has been gaining importance over the past few years. The United Nations Convention against Corruption was adopted in December 2003 and is the first global instrument to present anti-corruption measures adopted at the state level worldwide. The convention is also trying to improve international co-operation on preventing corruption and strengthening the fight against it. Furthermore, the Convention contains provisions defining concepts relating to official persons, property, property benefit achieved by criminal acts and other concepts relating to the fight against corruption and money laundering, and sets out measures and competent authorities in charge of preventive anti-corruption activities, prescribing the basic principles of behaviour of civil servants in public sectors, and in particular in the Public Finance Sector. In the area of criminal law, the Convention also proposes its definitions and descriptions of those crimes that appear in the area of corruption as typical in all modern legislation. The Republic of Croatia has ratified the Criminal Convention on Corruption, signed an additional protocol with the Criminal Convention on Corruption. The Republic of Croatia is also a party to the Civil-Legal Convention on Corruption. Access to those international legal standards has largely been implemented by the Republic of Croatia in its internal legislation, provisions of those European international acts, and all in order to combat corruption as a major social evil. The legal framework of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia to combat corruption is in line with international standards. This is how the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia describes the criminal offence of taking and giving bribes, illegal mediation. Infringement of the duties of the state authorities,... competition, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law on the liability of legal persons in criminal offences provides for the liability of legal persons for criminal offences committed by their responsible persons, not only for corruption offences but also for the large number of other offences. The law on the prevention of money laundering provides for measures and operations in banking, monetary and other affairs to be taken to remove money laundering. With regard to the institutional framework, Croatia is to combat corruption in order to form new methods that will contribute to a more effective, more effective prevention of corruption and corruption-related crime in 2001, the Law on a Regulation on the control of corruption and organised crime has been adopted, etc. Following this, the Republic of Croatia has already taken the necessary steps under national legislation to fight corruption. However, in order to improve and fight at national and international level, it is also necessary to ratify this Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30997	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30998	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Ivas said Croatian citizens accept corruption as something normal. That's incorrect. Croatian citizens do not accept corruption as something normal but in fact, Croatian citizens have been brought into a situation at the moment that they are considered helpless in the fight against corruption because the form of corruption is very expressed at the level of state authorities. And that is why Croatian citizens expect the Croatian Parliament to draw the line and move on, we are starting today to fight corruption decisively. Then neither Mr. Jurevic should be considered offended nor anyone else for what I said on behalf of the club. This is what Croatian citizens expect from us, not to say that we have a legal framework that is phenomenal on the one hand, and on the other hand we have that on a scale of corrupt countries we are making progress. How we are great Catholics on the one hand, and on the other hand what, and the Pope himself said that corruption is sin and evil. Therefore, citizens only ask us to finally fight corruption because there will continue to be an even greater poverty of Croatian citizens. And the fact, as Mr Markovanovic said earlier, 60 billion kunas are Croatian people in charge. We no longer have the middle layer, they are in charge of Croatian banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u30999	Thank you very much. Next, he has the word Mr. Pejo Trječević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31000	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In Croatian society, the principle of corruption is negative, unfavourable, harmful and dangerous. There is also an agreement on how most citizens, so-called political elites and business and scientific communities. In fact, corruption is usually defined as giving money or other material goods, privileges and the like, with the intention of the recipient doing or acting according to the desire of the giver. Bribery from civil servants and other persons in influential positions, i.e. using their own social position, i.e. in order to adopt or provide some illegal privileges or material gain or to serve illegal and immoral means in order to gain the favor of official persons in the exercise of rights or illegal benefits, bribery of officials and officials, and bribery. The National Anti-Corruption Programme determines the concept by means of a series of criminal acts, giving and receiving bribes, illegal intermediation, abuse of the duties of state authorities, abuse of positions and powers, conclusion of a harmful contract, giving away official secrets, and issuing and unauthorized acquisition of business secrets. This isn't just about the Croatian domestic problem. Corruption and traditional, corruption is a traditional export product, i.e. a permanent companion of the world's economic system. They used to consider that phenomenon capitalist imperialism, and today they ideologically call it the negative consequences of globalisation. The phenomenon is basically simple rich and developed countries view less developed than the market for their products and services. For Croatia, exporting corruption can pose a major danger. It is particularly worrying that the most common target of exporting corruption in the world is public works and construction. Then, following the export of corruption in the world, oil and gas, banking, energy and telecommunications business. It can be concluded that many countries where corruption is not high corruption successfully export to countries where it is a major problem. Foreign companies often destabilise the societies and political systems of developing countries with extreme inadequacy. Modes of behavior typical of so-called. The grey economy thus becomes key in the official economy, which has been a major obstacle to economic development and growth in transition countries. In the process of globalisation, this same threat threatens Croatia, so any kind of fight against corruption is welcome. However, the fight against corruption in Croatia is inefficient and more unimaginable without the protection of citizens who decide to report corruption. For their protection, a mere declarative intention in the national anti-corruption programme is not sufficient. In this respect, it is particularly important to protect workers who report corruption. In Croatia, in which the number of unemployed or temporary employees passes only 20% of the working-age population, blackmailing or punishing workers by firing is unfortunately still an effective weapon against workers who decide to report the observed corruption. There are numerous examples of such practices in Croatia, which are not necessarily listed here now, but which clearly show that these workers need clear legal protection. Croatia also undertakes to do so the provisions of two adopted international conventions to combat corruption, and thus the criminal law convention on corruption in its Article 22 provides for the obligations of the Member States of the signed Convention. Each Member State shall adopt those measures necessary for the effective and adequate protection of persons reporting corruption. In addition, the Civil-Legal Convention on Corruption in its Article 9 clearly states that each country in its internal legislation will provide adequate protection against any unjustified punishment for employees who have justifiable reason to suspect corruption or who, in good faith, declare their suspicion to responsible persons or authorities. The amendments and additions to our Labour Act in 2003 indicate that the address of workers on grounds of reasonable suspicion of corruption or good faith does not constitute a valid reason for the notification of this suspicion to responsible persons or competent authorities. Unfortunately, the provisions of the Labour Act have not been completed on that occasion, so such a ban on dismissal without proper punishment is completely ineffective and pointless. There's no reason for the employer to give up firing a man who reports corruption unless he's threatened with any punishment. However, it is possible that an employee who reports corruption may be forced to quit his job, not only for unwarranted dismissal, but also for job harassment. Therefore, I must also point out this occasion that in 97 C.E., the Holy See also declared corruption a sin and a great evil. So I wonder why we're so much of a Catholic country, if we don't actually go into action and stop corruption, and not just declaratively, as my colleague Kovacevic said on behalf of the HSP Club, but finally and with a goal. Therefore, I support the adoption of this convention that we, too, finally in Croatia, are going to fight and fight corruption and everything that comes out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31001	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31002	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's hard to say anything new after all this exposure. But it really is that this is a painful question and not just for us, but that this problem is actually a global one. This Law will only confirm the United Nations Convention against Corruption signed by the Republic of Croatia and what is in any case good to see when we read the convention that we are confirming, we see that we are a large part of the obligations that this Convention prescribes we have already fulfilled. The Convention provides for some regulation, what means of protection against corruption should be incorporated into the legislation of the Member State of the signatories of that Convention. We have indeed done a lot, a lot of things in this regard, and when we look at whatever it is said here that we may and too much call for this legal normative framework to be good and that it is quite okay to fight corruption, but indeed it is true that the results are not at the level of what our citizens expect and at the level that would be needed to deal with this difficult problem. We see it from the annual reports on the work of our state's attorney's office and we see in fact that... Processed and not sanctioned to some extent so that we could be satisfied with the functioning of our country in that segment. [[Part of the session has not been saved.]] And that is why, of course, we as the Croatian Parliament should continue to work on building a normative and legal system in which we will have very clear and precise acts that will be sanctioned. However, what is even more important, we as a state will have to work much more to raise the efficiency of state bodies in the phase of detection, prevention, processing and sanctioning of acts related to corruption. That's what I'm actually realizing is that a colleague is also calling for that tough fight to say from today we're going to fight corruption. We're going into this fight, actually, and creating this normative framework, but I'm really a normative framework in myself without clear results, without those annual reports how much it's done, processed and sanctioned it won't actually mean anything. And just sanctioned won't really mean anything and just sanctioning such phenomena will actually affect the reduction of such phenomena in society. Also, there are a lot of things to point out here but there is something in Article 7 of this Convention that I would especially say because we all called for not doing much in the reorganisation of public administration in a better and better quality organization, and among other things, that would be one of the reasons actually corruption in that area of state action. We really have to agree with that, but what I was saying when the laws on the reorganisations that changed the system of public administration always stood up and said what was actually here in the article and said that states must encourage and promote adequate remuneration and fair pay scales taking into account the level of economic development. I was going to say that in the system of our state administration, we need to build a system of rewards where people who work in such sensitive places that are subject to corruption and such phenomena will be quite correctly rewarded for their work where there will be a system that objectively values their war and where they will be adequately rewarded for their work that they perform very often and unpleasantly and where it will actually be less likely for them to be subject to corruption. I have cited only an example you have in the tax administration, you have inspectors who work on average pay depends on years of internship between 4 and 5 thousand kuna and do very difficult, very sensitive jobs that are very often on the ground and uncomfortable and are actually looking at wages if today the average salary in Croatia is 4 and a half thousand kuna indeed in that kind of scale of social values at some minimum. We will have to detect in all of that system specific places, certain positions that are exposed to these risks, and we will have to reward them more adequately in order to ask them for better results, and I think that we would certainly contribute to solving this problem. Of course, this problem can't, we can declare war today, but it's not something that can be solved in a year, it's not something that can be solved in a few years. This is one process in which every segment of society must actually experience certain changes in which we must bring the functioning of the rule of law and the rule of law to a much, much higher level but of course what is important and what is in the Convention itself must be fought against the Convention and one better education and one transparency, which means that it is necessary from those early stages of actually basic schooling in children to build up and work on building a system of values that I fear in this once-in-a-lifetime consumer society to become somewhat pale and slightly lasting values lose their glow. And I therefore believe that this law really needs to be passed unreservedly, and I think that it will be one of the laws that we will actually unanimously support but there is a lot of work ahead of us even though, as I said, we are creating a decent legal framework to fight corruption, but that alone will not be enough if we do not take concrete measures. We also have a national fight programme, we also have an operational action plan, but all this together obviously doesn't lead to some results, and it would be really good to think about the new national programme and new actions to achieve the best results, because year by year we get these reports on the work of the State's Attorney's Office and we see that these crimes in a very small number have been processed in general and very little of what has been processed is actually done at the end and sanctioned. These are normally crimes that are actually done in a way and quite sophisticated, and therefore we must really build and equip it much better if we know that our Ministry of Interior is not available to some number of adequate witches, meaning experts who can process and give answers to very complex questions in their segment, then we are clear that we are not yet adequately prepared for such a sharp fight so that we should announce and here I see a large space actually to make steps and to make positive moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31003	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31004	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President! Here, let me also briefly refer to the adoption of this law. Acceptance of this convention. Well, at first, I'd agree with anyone who's warned so far that corruption is harmful. Although it has always been in the modern state, it becomes a danger because the damages are being done by social affairs, reducing the necessary level of morality in political decision-making, blocking public administration, the judiciary makes it ineffective. There are various calculations of corruption damage. The greatest shame, however, is that it distorts the priorities of political and economic decision-making and the devastating damage to public responsibility and social morality, and in that sense I support this Convention in particular its basic provisions or purposes that place emphasis on more effective and effective prevention of the fight against corruption here just now was said that there is therefore a legal framework but the problem is therefore in implementation, in the implementation of all those provisions of the law, the rules that we have made here in the Parliament which are not sufficiently implemented. They can also express the state of corruption or corruption in Croatia. Namely, estimates of corruption prevalence suggest that corruption is the real problem of the Republic of Croatia. The first but unfortunately unreliable data is statistics of criminal acts. Statistics show that there are very few reported, accused and convicted persons for corruption crimes. For example, a total of 3,000 and 316 crimes were reported between 1992 and 1997. During that period, a thousand 408 indictments were filed and 570 persons were legally convicted. Therefore, there is a kind of filtering of corruption cases during the criminal proceedings and the conviction ends only 17.2% of the cases reported and the unconditional imprisonment provided for only by the number of 13 or 0.0392% of which, among other things, the role of the judiciary in this should be the same answer. Except that information can refer to caution because false reports are possible. First of all, he warns that there is a discrepancy between public perception of the widespread phenomenon and the public change on it. Public change research in the Republic of Croatia without exception shows that perceptions and views of respondents view corruption as widespread, very widespread 65.8%, dilated 32.9%, and that they condemn it from 54% to 82%, so we see that the public is very sensitive to these phenomena in our society. There are also international research that show the same. According to the International Transparency Index, the Republic of Croatia was 47th in the 91-nation list in 2001. A slight shift from 51 seats to 2000, but compared to the previous 99th report, the Republic of Croatia made remarkable progress as it was 74th in the ranking. Unfortunately, and what should be specifically warned is a negative trend. Croatia, meanwhile, has, in a year's time, gone back to a scale of perception and corruption, which annually publishes also a transparent international, which means it is the impression that corruption has increased. So the index for Croatia in this year's survey relating to the period until autumn 2003 is 3.5 while last year's survey was 3.7. Croatia shares 67 seats with Peru, Poland and Sri Lanka. The survey covers 146 countries most so far, the passing score is 5, best 10 and worst 0. So Croatia has a 3.5 rating, and in last year's 3.7, so it reversed by 0.2%. Nine studies have been used to obtain this year's index, perceptions, corruption in Croatia, most so far, so we can talk about the credibility of these researches. Perhaps I should just point out that on this year's scale that in the first place Finland, which has an index of 9.7 out of the 10 possible follows New Zealand 9.6 countries that have become members of the European Union have made significant progress, especially Slovenia and Estonia, they have index 6. The weakest in the group is Poland, which shares the place with Croatia, but this year it has progressed while we have gone back. For example, the index. BiH is 3.1, Serbia-Montenegro 2.7. Of the old members of the European Union, Greece, Italy, are the weakest, while in the last place... Index 1.5. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's some data, now I've been quite detailed to point out a negative trend that would have to be reversed by adopting the convention and implementing our laws. I hope that happens anyway. But let me still warn here about some hotspots that favor development still corruption in Croatia. Well, that's the fact that the government hasn't gone out with its anti-corruption programme yet. Also, the question arises whether the economy is free from state interference and the influence of the country i.e. a politician in his business. There are also major bureaucratic barriers that allow corruption. We've heard from the government for months that he'll be formed so-called. those stop shops for entrepreneurs, unfortunately this has not yet been formed and entrepreneurs must face many bureaucratic barriers today to achieve their right to entrepreneurship in order to open up some new entrepreneurship facility and such. Also, there's a question of whether there are... solutions to the participation of state officials in economic life? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the answer is negative because our officials are mass involved in the work of the boards of state firms and some of them are parallel to their business. There is also a question of whether there are effective regulations that prevent conflict of interest, unfortunately today we also heard that there are not yet. Moreover, effective committees do not yet act to prevent conflicts of interest which should exist at all levels from the municipality to the Parliament. And there's also a question, one of the important questions of the judiciary, but there's been a lot of words here. What I would have finally warned about, and I think, which I think is also important. So, what, more effective surveillance of the work of all the institutions of our country. And certainly, there is also a large role in this surveillance of civil society. Not government associations. So I can't approve of everything that's happening with regard to the government towards NGOs, some NGOs that have been denied this year for certain financial resources. Some associations were struck by tax inspections, large fines were charged for some minor violations. And also here in this House about that at 9 months we filed a VAT law in which NGOs would be freed, in which they would be freed from VAT payments, unfortunately that law after 5, 4 months has not yet received the government's opinion, the same... on the government's attitude towards such NGOs, which should play a prominent role in this anti-corruption process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, once again to support this Law, I support this Convention, which just points out that every country is obliged to develop, implement or maintain an effective, therefore, emphasising this effective anti-corruption policy. I hope it happens in Croatia as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31005	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31006	Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Certainly, as a representative, I welcome the ratification of this Convention, especially because we are doing it among the first ones, so we will probably be 13 countries that will do it and probably some other countries are doing it parallelly with us. And the proposal for this Law on Confirmation of the Convention lists a whole series of laws that have been passed which create a legislative framework for preventing corruption in Croatia. However, when we see how many laws have been passed and the accompanying acts, we are aware that corruption has become more and more widespread from day to day and that the international institutions have valued us that it is a general phenomenon in society and in the state, then we can conclude that law-making is only a framework for anti-corruption action. However, the adoption of laws or ratification of conventions will not result in a reduction of corruption, in order to prevent someone from acting corruptly or to eradicate corruption as such. After all, in all countries, and those highly ranked on corruption scales, i.e. to have little corruption from time to time, major corruption affairs are emerging that reach the very tops of the government, and in particular this is revealed when one of the political options, excuse me, loses the elections, then discovers various and large corruption affairs. Thus, even more orderly societies and states have managed to prevent this from even different from Croatia. The legislative framework, therefore, is yet to create an assumption that anti-corruption might take place. What we can do, however, can help us act anti-corruption. A major obstacle to corruption is the transparency of the state administration in which it is here under the state administration, we'll call the state administration in a Colloquial manner, so let's say everything that is public service. So, if we had an absolutely transparent state administration or a public service, it would be absolutely certain that corruption would be halved. Unfortunately, we don't have it today, of course, we don't have it from a far-reaching public administration. Another thing that certainly prevents corruption is the public work of public services. Unfortunately, and here we are far from what might or should be desirable. And third, I find it extremely important for anti-corruption action, which is the public's power in society. Because when I discussed both the law on conflict of interest and the commission that we unfortunately formed over a year ago, so here we have only recently appointed it, then I said that we will be able to talk about preventing conflict of interest or that corruption will be reduced only at the time when the public will have the power to replace some Prime Minister, when civil servants will leave their duties not only because they were found to have acted contrary to the law, or that they are in conflict of interest but because they are made public. Sadly, we are not in this situation today, although we have seen that some of the shifts have been under some public pressure for the past month. What the government has done in a year to achieve these objectives that I have spoken about, therefore, about the transparency of the work of public services and the availability of public services, i.e. public administration and the public work. For example, the government announced two projects that were supposed to be anti-corruption one big anti-corruption project should be one stop shop project. We expected that after both the prime minister and the vice-president of the government were in charge of the economy here several times and in the pre-election campaign and when the government was appointed and in the presentation of the government programme they spoke about the need of 27 various permits to open up a business in Croatia. I really expected that now after a year and a half here entrepreneurs will be able to open a company in one place with one permit. Unfortunately, we have now come to the conclusion that the prime minister no longer spoke of 27 permits, as he probably realized that he really did not need 27 permits to open a company but should now be between 7 and 12 according to his statements. But unfortunately those stop shop agencies still don't work for us. And now not only have we realized that there is a great obstacle to them that they can achieve this goal so that the entrepreneur solves all his problems in one place, but it has been seen that we need to change certain laws so that, in fact, those agencies, or Finn, who are going to work shop, can give those stop shops in their agency what the government wants or thinks should be implemented there. So for a year and a half, we've been saying that we're going to make something happen to the entrepreneurs, but entrepreneurs are still coming across all those obstacles they've been facing before the prime minister even took office before he started talking about it. And it is quite certain that one more time the stop of the agency will not be able to work. And when it works that it will then face the problems that entrepreneurs face when they realize their entrepreneurship projects. And these are unsettled land books, they're not updated some other files, they're buried commercial courts with cases, so the inability to register. It's legal uncertainty, it's inability to collect claims and so on and so on. So one project that was supposed to result in a reduction in the level of corruption in Croatia failed, and it is still going towards that, unfortunately, entrepreneurs have to and use certain forms of support for realisation and their ideas, therefore, to address administrative obstacles in a not-unfavourable way. The second project that the government has promoted over the past year is which should also allow public transparency to be made available to the public by the state administration is an open-door project. Unfortunately today, if you go to the open door website you will see that the latest topic on that open door dates back to 13.12.2004. I can't believe that nothing important to the public in the government has happened from 13.12 to today. When you click on any project that's being promoted on this website, you'll see that everyone's related to last year, so that the contests have been completed long ago, the projects that have been. So the government here slammed the door in front of the public and opened the door in front of the public. That's the way she wanted to say okay. Here you have these projects here you have the ways and principles of how you will get the funds of the tax money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but that was the first time, the only time and it seems to be over. The question arises at all how much this project cost and which clearly did not result in an increase in the public, transparency and availability of the work of the state administration. And if someone's going to be responsible for the failed open door project. Because apparently he didn't result in anything unless he had some kind of hidden intention. So, I personally really support the ratification of this Convention, but I think that the executive power at all levels should be taken and that further step should not only be proposed to the representative bodies of the Assembly, the city councils or the county councils to adopt certain acts but rather that it itself must act effectively in a way that reduces the possibility of corruption. And it is to be transparent to be available to citizens and entrepreneurs and to respond to all those questions that the public puts before them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31007	Thank you. Dear representative Milanak Opačić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31008	So here are many here before me talking about how in Croatia there is a very well-ordered part of the fight against corruption, but obviously we are stuck somewhere in the fight against corruption and the implementation of all these laws and national programmes that we have brought in Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. I think that in Croatia today, most citizens have a completely normal opinion, which is that any administrative barrier can be skipped very effectively by giving bribes and corruption. Which I think speaks enough about what condition we are in. Unfortunately, corruption and the degree of corruption in Croatia will also be an obstacle to entering the European Union because it is known that this part is also measured somewhere by certain parameters, and as far as the European Union is concerned, the European Union report suggests, for example. Also, we have very good laws but that the very implementation of these laws is very controversial for us. We're for example. A few years ago, we formed a single body that should primarily be involved in the persecution and repression of organised crime and corruption. And in this case, for example, the European Union report indicates that the BOOK law is in line with international standards, as is a very good law. However, the matter is sticking to staff issues that have not been resolved yet lacks funds and equipment, and in their opinion there are no special prosecutors for corruption cases. I also have questions for Croatian citizens that USKOK can do well in cases like this, but also how can we expect from USKOK effective persecution of corruption and organised crime when it happens more and more often that when an action takes place that seeks to catch individuals who are therefore engaged in dishonest and illegal actions, information in critical moments leaks to the public, and thus is minor to any possibility of getting enough information so that individuals can suspect and ultimately condemn it. This therefore speaks of the fact that in the very system that works and should work to prosecute those who serve bribery and corruption there are those who are in direct contact with crime and that is why information out of this system leaks out and obstructs all actions. More than a year ago, we had such a case where even certain transcripts of what was recorded during the action in which information was attempted as for example. The sale of shares, how companies are sold, how much someone gets their share and how much money they get for selling them in one way or another. Unfortunately, the whole action is because it leaked out to the public at an unfortunate time stopped, and the individuals were not punished. What particularly disgusted the Croatian public is that it is, for example, The court said that all that was collected in the law was not allowed enough to judge two people. What really disgusts me is that, for example, Some individuals can not, after all, stay somewhere in the shadow of their privacy but even more so, today believe that they should be key negotiators on the negotiating team to join the European Union. After that, after such behaviour, it is really difficult for citizens in this country to explain the values, which are moral criteria for the conduct of the highest political functions. How will we ask the citizens to believe in the institutions of the system and behave themselves differently when possible, what my colleague Stazic spoke of before me, a judicial dispute in which a very large amount of money was taken from a Croatian bank, that after that, the funds after what we could read in the media well ended up in the pockets of people who were sitting on the defendant's bench and suspected of murder, for drug trafficking, for a number of criminal activities. So, my dear colleagues, my colleague Stazic here said, it is not an instruction when politics is talking about possible phenomena and suspicions of judicial corruption, but I feel as much as he does that if we here in the highest legislative body of this country will not warn us of such phenomena and unless we do something about it how we can expect ordinary citizens to talk about it and that they behave differently. What you can all hear, like me, is that, for example. that people believe that the biggest corruption in commercial courts is where it is actually decided on property relations between companies and that it is there, for example. People say there's been corruption and bribery. Is that so or not, it's not my place to judge, but it is something that points to a perception that bribery and corruption in that part is very widespread and therefore should do something for example. If anything else, at least we can sort it out in some way. In any case, it is known that in all countries that have fought corruption, Croatia is not a unique example, so there are many countries that have gone through worse forms of corruption and crime than it is Croatia. In any case, it turned out that for one effective struggle was a crucial one good political will, so one decision about really going to fight corruption. And while it is not in this country, unfortunately, I am afraid there will be no major shifts, no matter how many conventions, national programmes, or any other normative acts. And in the end, I'd just like to say that I'm sorry that the Law of Conflict of Interest hasn't been passed long ago. I don't know which times, and I'm going to say it again, and here I said that we also love and we're much easier to prescribe the rules of behavior for others, but we're much harder to prescribe ourselves. I hope that the Committee on Conflict of Interest will start to function very quickly, because I think it is high time that this body is functioning and that just because of perception and us who are constantly perceived in the public as unfair and people who are most often in conflict of interest that we finally try to separate and separate what is a conflict of interest, which is not and that ultimately we separate those who really do their job honestly from those who can sometimes think that politics is a means for our own breakthrough. Therefore, it is one part of which I regret that it is not so long before it has started to be spent, and here is still the time for this commission to start working effectively. And in the end, I'd just like to say something about public administration and civil servants who are equally important. So, here we are going somewhere and we're going to bring it up and the law seems to me about civil servants, we're expecting another reading, but in any case I'd like to say that unsumpted civil servants and citizens don't get genetically engineered, they don't get a change of mentality, they only get a different definition of incentives within the system they operate in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31009	Thank you. Honorable representative of Vice Vukov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31010	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, we should accept this Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption because it could be said that we do not really have any left. It is normal that this text of the Convention is full of general terms which are, to say the logicaries of the concepts of small content and of a large scope and simply because all these must be applicable in all environments and in all countries. But we here in Croatia, I think, would have to remember this and take care of the specific forms of corruption in us, because corruption in us regardless of its apparent universality, international connection, it still draws its strength from the specific features of our cultural space. Just about it's shocking don't blame me, bring corruption to a direct relationship with culture, because as soon as we remember how we have our own language, our history, our special national interests won't be hard for us to accept that there's a specific form of corruption in us that's why it's so good in our space because it's ours, because it's the product of our spirit and our mentality. So let me, because I find that a little walk will help us, an ethomological walk I would say in terms and words that we use here. Corrupt, the Latin word corrupter, which means a lot more than the meaning that is constantly repeated here and in which sense everyone speaks. It means corrupting, damaging, counterfeiting, causing bad, infecting, distorting, bribing, but also breaking and dismembering. The word is therefore layered, using it in this common simplified sense, which is necessary in these texts as it is and so must be, we should not forget, however, that word carries with it the continual nature of its meaning. So, a corrupt, corrupt man is corrupt, infected, depraved, corrupt, dismembered. Well, I'd stick to this last one, torn apart. Because that's how we come to the word integrity as the opposite of corruption. So we could say, man becomes corrupt, corrupt, so when he's a person he's torn apart, he's disintegrated. That's why we tell the honest man that he has integrity. Integrity means a state of complete, personal honesty, independence, and then integrity, personal integrity is always a necessary moral integrity. Let me have a little comparison here. I'd like to compare integrity to the fate of art. We are all aware that strange things have been happening in art for a long time. But when I read the essay of the famous French poet and critic Paul Valeri, the next thought, i.e. I quote: "Picture and sculpture are abandoned children. Their mother's dead. Their mother architecture. When she lived, she gave them a place. Freedom of wandering was not allowed. They had their light, their contents, their space and their connections while she, so that architecture was alive they knew what they wanted." It's a finished quote. After this brilliant thinking, it is perfectly clear to me how it is possible for painters or sculptors to enter some space that is architecturally non-binding, without personality in it to place several sacks of cement, several cavaliers of bricks as we say in Dalmatia, is it an exhibition, and then we others have to walk there in awe of not being rude. So, if it was, I'd be back to the subject now. So when someone is a state official and at the same time a businessman, he's objectively disintegrated, disintegrated. So unfair. And now let me just say this. So how does all this stuff I've brought out manifest in our space? By complaining to a friend of mine about a privatizing robbery from him I heard, he answered so generously, let us at least rob ours now. Our man therefore escapes the criteria of an integral moral matrix as soon as you have our special rights. On another occasion, I heard this, describing one common acquaintance, one man said. Take care of him, if he can, I mean don't go into some business relationship with him, if he can fool you, he'll do it for sure, but then he added it to the comfort, but you know about wrestling, there's the real one, right? This is how corruption, therefore, dismemberment, can also produce not only wrong conclusions but also be a moral basis for this same depravity. In conclusion, therefore, here's my debate probably depends in some way on the content of this convention, but I think it was good to warn us that we have a slightly more thorough and complicated job than it seems when we adopt these conventions. I think, therefore, in the conclusion that our society should work long-term on moral integrity so that nothing and no patriotism can be beyond that integrity, so it will certainly not be worse, it will be an alibi for every kind of evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31011	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31012	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The debate on this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention in the fight against corruption is an opportunity for us to point out once again the importance, the size of the problems we as a society and as a state are facing. I need to feel often spoken at all levels responsible and qualified to strengthen the level of our awareness of the danger we are now in, or in danger we might be in. According to colleagues here, according to the categorization, Croatia is located in an infamous 64th place, so one wonders, in this year, whether we were less or more corrupt in the past years or whether this place is the result of relevant activities on the legislative agenda, in the plan to develop social consciousness. This level of corruption in Croatia is certainly not the result of work in these 15 years of the Croatian state, because corruption has its roots and history that goes far into the human community, in the history of human society. However, when we as citizens were a Croatian issue, we have been in several countries in the last hundred years where we have neither had our sovereignty nor could we have had the possibility of an organized quality fight against such a human evil, one civilizational evil. If we go a little deeper into our history, we'll see that there were a lot of those who ruled these places and were in their interest to rule people with the help of... act and to make their interests right. Why is corruption so dangerous? This is where all the colleagues mentioned the danger. I'd like to make a few more points. On the eve of corruption, they shoot all those links between individuals and society, between individuals and institutions, between institutions and institutions. You're actually more into the state of chaos, you're no longer one organized responsible society so you can manage all these. Corruption, or it destroys this tissue of sociality, brings us back to the state of fear and uncertainty and, in fact, all those relationships that have been in force so far, they are in some way no longer valid and society is entering into one uncertainty, one instability. He's actually threatening the danger of getting back to the state before the social contract. Known from the theory of the social contract, says people created the state as one common good to preserve the species, to preserve themselves because at first it was bellum omnium and omnes, there was a war against all and that there would be no cataclysm of mutual self-destruction says we went into the creation of the state. That's one thing I say divorce leads us back again, leads us to mutual suspicions, leads us to mutual conflicts, and ultimately leads to the danger of mutual extinction, and we're actually coming back to one fundamental right in human relations, which is the right to stronger. We're all like a society in one state of war even though we're once unpublished in a state of war. Our society has been attacked from within corruption, and because it is a kind of internal attack, it is difficult to recognize often these attacks and to stand up to them in quality and it is extremely, extremely dangerous because of that. And it's one of the hardest exams, I think, that we as a society should pass. So, starting as representatives of this House, as representatives of political parties, as citizens, as professionals and persons. So, is this corruption in a fine way based on its legality infiltrating us, and often we ourselves are the bearers of the corruption itself, this virus of corruption, and it is, in accordance with the given circumstances that it is further procuring. Corruption, I'd call, crimes are at first sight crimes without a victim. You often actually admit that you can't see that victim. And why is that? Because we're all actually the victim of corruption. It seems to me that this House would make a major contribution to the action against corruption, not only will we adopt this Act, which will confirm the United Nations Convention and thus accept a new commitment to the world and our citizens, that we will install it into our acts and that we will base these acts and implement various beneficial social actions, to prevent the development of corruption in our society. But it seems to me that it would be an act of goodwill of the Croatian Parliament, of all of us here and our desire to successfully begin to counter corruption if we had already begun to implement the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which in many ways speaks of this problem that we are facing here today. It would be good, actually we all know more or less what corruption is, but here I am, let's say, going to read one definition. He says: "Corruption is the abuse of office, business or politics for personal benefit, which makes an individual at his own request or driven by others that leads to material and immaterial damage to society, entrepreneurship or individual." What suits corruption? Let's say, first of all, in Croatia. One of, one of the opportunities that enables the guessing of corruption is the cultural environment and tradition. Giving bribes and corruption is sort of considered normal. When you come to the doctor, you give the blue envelope, if you have to bribe your little son to get a better grade for the professor or someone in the administration. These are some acts that are often used and that we do not make noises, however, are some of the first major elements of corruption itself. And I said earlier that there was often someone else's authority in this area that, in order to keep this people in subjection, paid them to work against those others, and thus this evil of corruption was infiltrated among us as citizens in these areas. So let's say that the fight against corruption in some of our environments and actions that individual organisations, for example, NGOs themselves, and the Church itself or political organisations are trying to lead, is considered in some way a kind of fight against the tradition itself. Furthermore, the drive for corruption in Croatia also operates a failure of the former system, i.e. the former system. Let's often think of that parole that was very effective "longer, take care of yourself". Furthermore, the decomposition of the system led to a single lamb for the good of the former system, and during the former system we also had war. In order to lead the war, we had to have funds. We were banned from the defense war, and in order to be able to lead it, we too often had to reach out for such ways as to obtain the means of defence. Furthermore, corruption is also favoured by organised crime, which is under its control at the beginning of the creation of the Croatian state, taking individual elements of the Croatian state. Then, it favors the indetermination of certain legal solutions, so that we can talk about corruption as a structural weakness. Furthermore, we can talk about another reason that pleases, this is the lack of development of the civil sector and frequent pressures on the media. In favour of corruption comes the closeness of the administration and the economy. A secret leak of information from the administration to economic operators, then a large amount of money that the administration draws upon depending on external entities through capital investments, foreign loans, accumulation of jurisdiction in the hands of individuals with a new large group of discretionary rights, lack of feeling about doing wrong with those who corrupt as well as those who are corrupt. Lack of restriction and failure of control mechanisms, lack and restriction of transparency, the process of making individual decisions, unclear borders between socially common and criminal activities, lack of political declaration in favour of commitment to ethical norms in public affairs, lack of anti-corruption laws. And the consequences are focused on institutions, on the budget, on the economy, on political culture, and, for example, since time has already come to an end, I can't say everything, but in our society there are examples of such as the fight against corruption and the success of the fight against corruption in society will also depend on our willingness to recognise this corruption. We need to get to such a level of personal and social consciousness that corruption becomes a disgrace. And here, I propose one action at the level of the Croatian Parliament, to launch at the level of the entire society an action called "clean face, clean hands". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31013	Thank you. Dear representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31014	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I, like anyone who has spoken before, do not question or doubt that this proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention will pass, and that, in accordance with the Convention, we will develop those laws that have not yet been sufficiently developed, which should help reduce the level of corruption in our society. In this report, however, I did not want to talk about what we would do by passing this Law and by correcting other laws as a step in that legislative part of the normative part. But I wanted to talk to you about what I see is a problem in our society, and that's how we differ from some other countries. Because, I warn, corruption is not a unique Croatian, corruption is not a phenomenon that only happens in Croatia. And what it is, there is a convention of the United Nations that indicates that it is a global problem, a problem that every country, which is dealt with by the whole world, is facing both the public and the private sector and there are almost no segments in any society that is not exposed to corruption. What makes me think that Croatia is different from those countries that we set ourselves as an example of those where the level of democracy is higher than in Croatia, in those where respect for the rule of law, respect for the normative framework of the law and their application. Not only are you calling on them at a higher level than they are in Croatia. I believe that the problem of corruption in Croatia is not only smaller and smaller, but unfortunately bigger and bigger. That the cause of this is the lack of any authority of our laws and our institutions on the one hand. And on the other hand, I think that the great creator of corruption is the very state, all its institutions and all its officials and officials. And I don't want any of these words to be understood as words that accuse all of us or all of national red tape. On the contrary, there are honest and honest people who do their job among politicians and officials and between the state or local administration. But unfortunately, there are also those who abuse both their positions and their jobs, who, for example, don't bring in urban plans for the purpose of blackmailing builders or those who want to build a house, factory, or hospital. That amongst the populations who have foreign money on behalf of Croatian citizens there are those who do not, but do not want to issue a solution, are stalling with this work precisely to pay for additional services under the table, it was the most banal document or something that may depend on someone's life fate or work and existence. Why this does not decrease in Croatia, why such situations seem to be getting bigger and those who are prone to corruption are becoming more and more boastful, so it seems to me that corruption is getting another element that can almost be called blackmail. That's because in this society for corruption, no one's answered for blackmail yet. Okay, if you didn't answer to the court I can figure it out, sometimes something goes into obsolescence, sometimes someone's skilled in corruption, and then pulls out the hand of justice, it's possible in lack of evidence etc. These are the same situations that are known elsewhere in the world. But I can't accept it that in this society when someone else gets away with a sentence they don't get punished by society. I cannot accept, for example, that a doctor who is known to have sought bribes, where the people who gave him this bribe testified that they had given it, but who was not convicted because it had already gone into oblivion, so it is not disputed that he was a corrupt doctor, but could not be convicted, that this same doctor was recently re-established to a leading function in a Croatian hospital. These are situations that frustrated people, these are situations that deter anyone who would be obliged to report corruption, report blackmail that people are exposed to, but are failing under such pressures, give way to blackmail because they don't believe the state, they don't trust the state institutions, we don't trust those who, in their name, are obliged to lead her into that country order. It is unacceptable for me to say that some state or public institutions will not speak now, I am not talking about concrete situations, names and investments, I cannot accept, for example, that something financed from the budget is paid for, for example, 20 million euros, and that it really is worth 5 million euros, that it knows half of Croatia, and that everyone is gossiping in cults, and that no one is saying that 15 million euros went into corruption in someone's pockets, and that no one, not only is it not going to be a court answer, but it will not even be publicly called. Gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, that's our daily practice, that's what we all talk quietly about, but nobody's doing anything. No one will admit that, that people are being blackmailed, no one will admit that the position is not only the position and functions, but also the jobs to the lowest, to that official place to write is not even to sign some kind of paper that the citizen is necessarily needed to ensure that they abuse those positions, and everyone is silent because one of the most often covers the other. Some were blackmailed, some were blackmailed. Those who are valued can forgive them. But to those who blackmail me, I don't think either of us, nor these laws, nor this judiciary that are also mentioned here have the right to forgive. I'm going to ask you a question now. Why do a whole series of applications that stand in various offices across various jurisdictions never end up in various court offices? And it's a source of corruption, it's a source of evil that we're going through, and so are all the other citizens in this country. And that's what we do if we don't change our behavior, if we don't really begin to separate those who do their job from those who blackmail and corrupt, that is, seek and encourage corruption, never the conventions or the laws will help us. The problem is in practice, and the problem is that we're all a little crazy and we're not talking publicly about what needs to be spoken of publicly and what needs to be publicly condemned.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31015	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSLS Club DC's 5-minute debate, respected representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31016	Mr. President, Secretary of State, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I will try to answer what my colleague Antunović and many speakers have said before, citing characters and the fabula that remind me of the joke, but they are not a joke, so when an average American was found in one place, an average Central European, Austrian or German, and an average man from these places, and when they discussed the relationship of morality and the culture of legality, or the culture of conduct that comes from morality, then roughly the American says in us everything that is not explicitly forbidden, so what does not prohibit, for which the penalty does not prescribe a criminal system, we consider it moral, acceptable and in practice we can do. A German or an Austrian or someone who is, who lives in Central Europe, would say, we are prohibited from anything that is not allowed, which means that legal norms and customs of social behavior are derived from our understanding of morality. And now, of course, there's something left for someone with these spaces to say, about him being able to say what we're saying today, we're allowed to do exactly what's forbidden. Such a culture of legality, of course, is primarily seen in corruption and corruption, and not above all the corruption that we most often have in front of our eyes and which is in some way the first premonition association of the so-called. black corruption, rather than all those other zones, because today the authors distinguish black, gray and white corruption. So that black corruption that is actually bribery, using public service for private interests. But ladies and gentlemen, a country where it is estimated that national wealth is eaten by a gray economy in which tax evasion is about 20 to 25% of gross domestic product or total fiscal resources that should be collected in such a gray economy, of course, such grey corruption is the highest percentage and we all live here and the government and we here as MPs in the Parliament and we have not yet learned to deal with and overcome that grey corruption. It's natural when we couldn't do it to make these appear so-called. If we don't know if we're going to be reported to a criminal judge, if someone's going to give us our punishment, or if we're going to get away with paying for the parking lot. Well, not only is it possible that we didn't pay for the parking lot, but we're going to get our confirmations that we don't have to pay for the parking lot at all, if we're going to favor someone, if we don't know how we're going to get some benefits. So it's quite understandable, then, that this white corruption is being preceded by public officials, and it's practically no concern but you still have, so we can say a folk proverb if no one catches you, if no one notices you then it's actually not immoral and then it's not something we do against the offense. That's why I think the convention itself now, even though we at the club support it won't change much. However, I must tell you, and you probably do, and you know that all the research done in transition countries shows that you have more conventions, the more rules you have, the more bodies and bodies you should be dealing with preventing corruption, the more mechanisms you have to deal with curbing corruption, the more corruption you actually have. The only way to reduce corruption is by very clear laws, very clear sublegal acts, informed and effective public administrations that will in fact be at the beginning prevented corruption from hitting anyone. If you have one city today, it seems to me to be Zadar, 9,000 requests for location and construction permits, it's a natural empire for the development of corruption. I'm not saying people are corrupt so they don't get me wrong. But if you have a public service that cannot be answered by citizens within a week it is the natural soil of corruption. That's why we have to change our behavior first. If you have parliamentary representatives who or the Parliament can't pass some laws for three years then you'll have such a public administration, then you'll have such officers, then you won't know the rules of the game in advance and there's actually a space where corruption flourishes. And another prejudice, I would like to say to our citizens openly, I would like to break down until the moment that we will adapt to structural Europe and when we enter Europe that corruption will be less. That's not true. Read an interview with the Slovak ambassador to Croatia who said in Slovakia corruption grew with the entry of foreign capital and foreign companies. So let's not think that someone is going to stop corruption instead of us. We must do this long before we enter Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31017	Thank you very much. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Ms. Snjezana Bagic's final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31018	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! It is clear that the debate has shown that it has gone far beyond the topic of this agenda item of the UN Convention on Anti-Corruption Confirmation Act, because who would not support such an international document and an act that covers this area quite broadly. However, it is understandable and quite justified that this was an incentive and a way to talk about corruption and the fight against corruption far beyond. What does this debate show? Yes, it's true. Our fight against corruption is universal, it's not just our problem but, of course, it remains and it's most interesting for us, and the most important thing for us as a state to organize and successfully fight such phenomena, I dare say because corruption is a lot of talk, it's hard to define and given its appearances of form and pores where it gets involved in this debate shows that there is no system where it's not present, sometimes it's hard to pick up all this together and fight successfully. So the question arises, in fact, and how as a society, as a state, we can successfully fight corruption. No one's fooling themselves, so neither I here on behalf of the Government nor someone who's an expert lawyer that it's enough to create a legislative framework. He's a frame. So something that gives us the opportunity to fight successfully and we can be satisfied with that plan in Croatia. Of course, the success of implementation and struggle shows us how successful we are here, how successfully we are applying this legislative framework that we have created. Now, the question is, how is the law implemented? It is, through the institutions of this system, of this society. The first wave immediately includes those institutions that are in charge of this. So, the Ministry of the Interior, the State's Attorney's Office, the BIA as a specialized agency in preventing corruption and ultimately courts. That's why you talk about justice a lot. Why? Because you're going to court to bring justice. So, it is firstly up to them to successfully make that fight and I don't want to justify anyone, but when it comes to corruption and other forms of crime, we are facing something that has been a lot of talk about perception and what is really a form or criminal offence of corruption or of another form, and here we come to a situation where indeed these institutions of our society, the judiciary and other institutions that are, according to the law, according to the mandate that we have given them to fight corruption should do so in those cases where there really is an application, where there are indications or evidence when it corresponds to a factual description. And they should therefore prosecute and punish those who have committed a crime. It would take us a long way... It's not about whether our system is successful or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can certainly be more successful, there is no dispute about it, and we should all try to do it and allow the system to work on that plan. But this convention also shows and this debate also shows that it is not enough that all of us who are in society, not only us who act on some public duties, whether we are parliamentary representatives, whether we are working in the government or we are acting on other public services, but a whole society should actively participate in the fight against corruption through the raising of awareness, through raising the public, through raising the level of courage of our responsibility, civil responsibility to participate and contribute as members of this society, and therefore, with all these provisions of the Convention, I point to a provision of Article 16 and a convention that speaks precisely about the participation of society. It is clear that we will not win the participation of society if we return again through the institutions of the system to these persons we do not provide protection, we do not show that when someone takes advantage of that civic courage that has indeed won success there. I'm saying, all this shows is that this convention, its confirmation is just one rock as someone said, it's just one mosaic and we'll have full success when all of us here, who are public figures or we're politicians, and we're acting out some similar duties as someone else here has said we're really starting to do what we're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31019	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's go to the vote. Please engage to determine the quorum. I'm asking the MPs and the MPs to get involved. Please quorum. 90, we have a quorum. First, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 235. The debate on the text is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the CNS and PGS-s. I would like a representative of the motionor, State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31021	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31022	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part of the law. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31023	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31024	A brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31025	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Of course, not diminishing the importance and role of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest that it also contributes to the fight against this social evil in its own part, but as set out in Article 6(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Convention confirming this Law where emphasis is placed on those bodies that will assist other countries in developing and implementing concrete measures to prevent corruption. Therefore, which will still operate without considering that Article 3 should not then be complemented by this Committee among other bodies mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31026	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31027	I cannot believe that the Commission does not also participate in the fight against corruption to decide on a conflict of interest. And I can't agree that the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest is not the body to be implemented by the Convention that we have signed. So I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31028	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Please engage. You can vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? The result? 34 for, 5 abstentions, 58 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that with 101 votes for and 1 abstentions, the Law confirming the United Nations Convention against Corruption in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. Next item - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States regarding the use of airspace, airport and maritime port polygons and training facilities by the US Armed Forces in Europe, first reading P.Z. No. 193 The legislator is the Government. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security, Maritime and Transport and the links of the reports we received at the session. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic further explained the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31030	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on 20 February 2004 to set up a Committee on the Construction and Monitoring of the Implementation of this Memorandum. As chairman of the commission, she appointed a commander of the Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defence and appointed representatives of the resolution ministries in the commission and accepted, by the end of 27 May 2004, the Commission's report on the lead negotiations for the conclusion of the memorandum, and authorised the Deputy Minister of Defence to sign the same on behalf of the Government, while, on behalf of the European Command, the Brigadier General... in July 2004. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The procedure for preparing the adoption and signing of this Memorandum was conducted in accordance with the Constitution and the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. The basic purpose of this memo is consistent and is directly in support of the spirit and letters of the following strategic documents: National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, in particular chapters in the development of defence capabilities and Article 80, which states, inter alia, that one of the most important principles of the development of the Armed Forces must be to achieve interoperability with the forces of the NATO Member States. The defence strategies of Croatia, in particular point 2., 3., which discusses ensuring the presumption of full compatibility and interoperability with the Armed Forces and defence systems of other democratic states, as well as the development of organisational capabilities necessary for successful joint action. These military strategies of the Republic of Croatia, in particular points 5, 1, 4 interoperability and compatibility as one of the leading... the tasks of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the process of preparing for Euro-Atlantic integration, and points 6, 3. 1st, bilateral and multilateral international military co-operation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Agreement provides a legal framework for the annual planning of training and training of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with an American partner on our territory. In doing so, knowledge and skills procedures will be improved beyond the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, as is our commitment to the partner objective in support of the host country. Therefore, the memorandum represents a legal framework, a large part of the codification of existing experiences and efforts to avoid or reduce the problems observed by then. It is only after the proposal of the annual plan of concrete activities that follows the submission and therefore to the Croatian Assembly for Support, as provided for in Article 6 of this Memorandum laying down the jurisdiction of Croatian legislation. The annual plan will be approved in accordance with the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Act of Defence provides that the Croatian Parliament shall decide on the exit or operation of the Armed Forces outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, that is to say, the entry or operation of the Armed Forces of other States in the territory of the Republic of Croatia within the framework of the exercise, except for the exit and entry of the Armed Forces within the framework of international defence organisations or the humanitarian assistance framework. This was also decided by the Croatian Parliament and on 18 September 2002 on the maintenance of bilateral military exercises by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the United States. This Decision concerned 8 exercises for all branches of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for a period of five days to several months. The exercise on the Slunj and Udbin polygons included participation of up to 350 members of the United States Land Army. On 15 May 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision on the maintenance of bilateral military exercises by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the United States during 2003 on the territory of the Republic of Croatia which included 9 exercises again with the involvement of all three branches of our Armed Forces. One of these exercises, Adriatic Fiblex 0.3, included editing of the Eugen Quaternik training site in Slunje to prepare for a major international military training of engineering units that we successfully spent during 2004. On 30 January 2004, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision on the maintenance of a multilateral military exercise, the Adriatic Fiblex, in which seven countries of Siberia participated alongside the forces of the Republic of Croatia and the United States of America and on 3 March 2004. The Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision on the maintenance of 10 military exercises by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the US Armed Forces during 2004 with the participation of all three branches of our Armed Forces. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia determines that the Croatian Parliament confirms international agreements requiring the adoption or amendment of laws of international military and political nature contracts and international agreements that financially commit the Republic of Croatia. So, since this is an international military contract, it is the basis for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Memoranda signed in Ramstein in July 2004 in the original in England and Croatian. Good bilateral relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States are followed by good relations between the two countries and in other areas of interstate cooperation. The co-operation of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia with the Ministry of Defence of the United States is on a constant rise, it is a significant intensity, and it is of paramount importance to us. The largest number of activities in the past have been achieved as part of joint military exercises, activities under the Partnership for Peace and NATO Action Programme. The draft law confirms the Memorandum of Understanding so that its provisions within the meaning of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia become part of the internal legal order. The main objective of the conclusion of this Memorandum is to step up activities to strengthen partner relations and promote good defence cooperation so far. The implementation of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum will take place through the regular activities of the Ministry of Defence and the funds from the state budget intended for the work of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will be used for its implementation. The purpose of this Memorandum is to establish the conditions under which the United States allows the use of airspace, airports, polygons, sea ports and training facilities designated by the Republic of Croatia and based on proposals submitted by the Joint Planning and Management Group. More specifically, the memorandum obliges the parties to establish a coordinating body for military training activities called Joint Planning and Management Groups. The group is composed of representatives of Croatian and American authorities and is headed by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. In the Croatian case, representatives of the group are from different resolutions: the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, maritime and development, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, spatial planning and construction, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Croatian Air Navigation Control. Because the tasks are such as to include the development of annual training plans for the regulation of standard operating procedures, the coordination of approved activities in the airspace, sea and airports, environmental protection and others. Furthermore, the memorandum sets out in detail what procedures will apply to the entry and exit and use of Croatian airspace, airports and sea ports and others, search and rescue operations, nature protection and the environment, the way in which the damage is addressed, public reporting and others. It is evident from all of this that the memorandum is a detailed arrangement of both sides' rights and obligations. The status of the U.S. shale State is primarily regulated in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the legal position of their forces, so on. NATO sofa. NATO's sofa provision forms part of an agreement between the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance and other states participating in a partnership for peace, on the legal position of their forces, so-called. NATO's PfP sofa took effect in the Republic of Croatia on 10 February 2002. This Agreement will be open to the signing of any state which is either a NATO Contracting Party... or accepts an invitation to a partnership for peace and which signs a framework document partnership for peace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The foreign armed forces, the civilian and military components have under this international agreement of NATO... And NATO PFP... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same status as the Armed Forces of the receiving State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian Parliament adopted on 9 July 2004 the Law on the Confirmation of the Further Protocol of the Agreement between States Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in a Partnership for Peace. About the legal position of their forces signed in December 2003. A further procuring agreement regulates the legal position of NATO military commanders, and staff commands in the state area of the countries participating in a partnership for peace. Upon arrival in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, a visiting unit including the US Armed Forces will enjoy status in line with the NATO sofa and NATO pfp sofa provisions. The guest unit will pay costs for services provided by civil entities according to publicly published tariffs or concluded agreements except for the use of military facilities and infrastructure of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. The aircraft owned or used by or on behalf of the visiting unit will not be subject to charges for landing or parking in Croatian military bases or fees for flying or air navigation while they are in the Croatian airspace because they apply the principle of reciprocity because they do not pay for our armed forces either. The financial obligations of the parties under this Memorandum will depend on the availability of the funds allocated, in accordance with the applicable state laws. The costs will be agreed on a case-by-case basis within the joint planning group and in accordance with the PFP sofa. In order to meet its needs for training and safety, the guest unit can perform a smaller construction on or near the training facility in Slunj and Gasinci at the airport in Pula, Zadar and Udbina and in the port facilities in Split, Rijeka and Dubrovnik and in the details concerning smaller structures will be an integral part of the special agreement. In the event of an injury or death of Croatian residents during the activities of visiting units where the staff of visiting medical units from the Republic of Croatia may have participated will conduct an examination or autopsy at the time and place to be designated by the Republic of Croatia. The protection of nature and the environment is of special interest to the Republic of Croatia and will pay particular attention to it. The memorandum itself contains specific restrictions in terms of environmental protection, the guest unit will respect the legislation of the Republic of Croatia that regulates the environmental protection issue. Any claims on compensation incurred as a consequence of the activities under this Memorandum will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. NATO sofas. The competent authority for the implementation of this Memorandum in the Republic of Croatia shall be the central authority of the State Administration responsible for defence affairs. The Parties may conclude separate implementing agreements in order to allow this Memorandum to be implemented. Such implementing agreements will be concluded by the Ministry of Defence and will be co-signed by authorised representatives of a company or a ministry responsible for individual agreements on issues regulated. This memorandum shall remain in force for a period of 5 years from the date of entry into force. After that, its duration may be extended for the same period of time, unless one of the parties in writing informs the other party of his intention to cancel or express his wish to achieve this memo. Each party may at any time cancel this memo after the first year. The notice of termination or conclusion of a new memo must be delivered in writing by diplomatic means no later than 6 months in advance. This Memorandum may be amended or supplemented at any time and with mutual consent by both parties. The amendments and additions shall be in writing and shall include the full name and date of conclusion of the MoU. Any disputes concerning the interpretation and application of this Memorandum will be settled through consultations between the parties and will not be referred to the resolution of the third party to the domestic or international court. In case of non-compliance with this memo and PFP sofa, the PFP sofa is appropriate. This memorandum will take effect on the date of receipt of the last written notification by diplomatic means, which shall report to each other that the conditions laid down by national legislation have been met for its entry into force. The discussion on committees also raised the question of who is a party to this contract, and according to the interpretation of the foreign ministers of the independent department of international legal affairs, it is doubtless that, on the other hand, the European Command has signed this on behalf of the Government of the United States of America, the signing of the opinion of the Head of the International Legal Affairs Department, Ms. Andreja Metelko Zgombic. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on 20 February 2004 to set up a Committee on the Construction and Monitoring of the Implementation of this Memorandum. As chairman of the commission, she appointed a commander of the Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defence and appointed representatives of the resolution ministries in the commission and accepted, by the end of 27 May 2004, the Commission's report on the lead negotiations for the conclusion of the memorandum, and authorised the Deputy Minister of Defence to sign the same on behalf of the Government, while, on behalf of the European Command, the Brigadier General... in July 2004. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The procedure for preparing the adoption and signing of this Memorandum was conducted in accordance with the Constitution and the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. The basic purpose of this memo is consistent and is directly in support of the spirit and letters of the following strategic documents: National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, in particular chapters in the development of defence capabilities and Article 80, which states, inter alia, that one of the most important principles of the development of the Armed Forces must be to achieve interoperability with the forces of the NATO Member States. The defence strategies of Croatia, in particular point 2., 3., which discusses ensuring the presumption of full compatibility and interoperability with the Armed Forces and defence systems of other democratic states, as well as the development of organisational capabilities necessary for successful joint action. These military strategies of the Republic of Croatia, in particular points 5, 1, 4 interoperability and compatibility as one of the leading... the tasks of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the process of preparing for Euro-Atlantic integration, and points 6, 3. 1st, bilateral and multilateral international military co-operation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Agreement provides a legal framework for the annual planning of training and training of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with an American partner on our territory. In doing so, knowledge and skills procedures will be improved beyond the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, as is our commitment to the partner objective in support of the host country. Therefore, the memorandum represents a legal framework, a large part of the codification of existing experiences and efforts to avoid or reduce the problems observed by then. It is only after the proposal of the annual plan of concrete activities that follows the submission and therefore to the Croatian Assembly for Support, as provided for in Article 6 of this Memorandum laying down the jurisdiction of Croatian legislation. The annual plan will be approved in accordance with the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Act of Defence provides that the Croatian Parliament shall decide on the exit or operation of the Armed Forces outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, that is to say, the entry or operation of the Armed Forces of other States in the territory of the Republic of Croatia within the framework of the exercise, except for the exit and entry of the Armed Forces within the framework of international defence organisations or the humanitarian assistance framework. This was also decided by the Croatian Parliament and on 18 September 2002 on the maintenance of bilateral military exercises by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the United States. This Decision concerned 8 exercises for all branches of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for a period of five days to several months. The exercise on the Slunj and Udbin polygons included participation of up to 350 members of the United States Land Army. On 15 May 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision on the maintenance of bilateral military exercises by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the United States during 2003 on the territory of the Republic of Croatia which included 9 exercises again with the involvement of all three branches of our Armed Forces. One of these exercises, Adriatic Fiblex 0.3, included editing of the Eugen Quaternik training site in Slunje to prepare for a major international military training of engineering units that we successfully spent during 2004. On 30 January 2004, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision on the maintenance of a multilateral military exercise, the Adriatic Fiblex, in which seven countries of Siberia participated alongside the forces of the Republic of Croatia and the United States of America and on 3 March 2004. The Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision on the maintenance of 10 military exercises by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the US Armed Forces during 2004 with the participation of all three branches of our Armed Forces. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia determines that the Croatian Parliament confirms international agreements requiring the adoption or amendment of laws of international military and political nature contracts and international agreements that financially commit the Republic of Croatia. So, since this is an international military contract, it is the basis for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Memoranda signed in Ramstein in July 2004 in the original in England and Croatian. Good bilateral relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States are followed by good relations between the two countries and in other areas of interstate cooperation. The co-operation of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia with the Ministry of Defence of the United States is on a constant rise, it is a significant intensity, and it is of paramount importance to us. The largest number of activities in the past have been achieved as part of joint military exercises, activities under the Partnership for Peace and NATO Action Programme. The draft law confirms the Memorandum of Understanding so that its provisions within the meaning of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia become part of the internal legal order. The main objective of the conclusion of this Memorandum is to step up activities to strengthen partner relations and promote good defence cooperation so far. The implementation of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum will take place through the regular activities of the Ministry of Defence and the funds from the state budget intended for the work of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will be used for its implementation. The purpose of this Memorandum is to establish the conditions under which the United States allows the use of airspace, airports, polygons, sea ports and training facilities designated by the Republic of Croatia and based on proposals submitted by the Joint Planning and Management Group. More specifically, the memorandum obliges the parties to establish a coordinating body for military training activities called Joint Planning and Management Groups. The group is composed of representatives of Croatian and American authorities and is headed by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. In the Croatian case, representatives of the group are from different resolutions: the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, maritime and development, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, spatial planning and construction, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Croatian Air Navigation Control. Because the tasks are such as to include the development of annual training plans for the regulation of standard operating procedures, the coordination of approved activities in the airspace, sea and airports, environmental protection and others. Furthermore, the memorandum sets out in detail what procedures will apply to the entry and exit and use of Croatian airspace, airports and sea ports and others, search and rescue operations, nature protection and the environment, the way in which the damage is addressed, public reporting and others. It is evident from all of this that the memorandum is a detailed arrangement of both sides' rights and obligations. The status of the U.S. shale State is primarily regulated in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the legal position of their forces, so on. NATO sofa. NATO's sofa provision forms part of an agreement between the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance and other states participating in a partnership for peace, on the legal position of their forces, so-called. NATO's PfP sofa took effect in the Republic of Croatia on 10 February 2002. This Agreement will be open to the signing of any state which is either a NATO Contracting Party... or accepts an invitation to a partnership for peace and which signs a framework document partnership for peace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The foreign armed forces, the civilian and military components have under this international agreement of NATO... And NATO PFP... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same status as the Armed Forces of the receiving State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian Parliament adopted on 9 July 2004 the Law on the Confirmation of the Further Protocol of the Agreement between States Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in a Partnership for Peace. About the legal position of their forces signed in December 2003. A further procuring agreement regulates the legal position of NATO military commanders, and staff commands in the state area of the countries participating in a partnership for peace. Upon arrival in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, a visiting unit including the US Armed Forces will enjoy status in line with the NATO sofa and NATO pfp sofa provisions. The guest unit will pay costs for services provided by civil entities according to publicly published tariffs or concluded agreements except for the use of military facilities and infrastructure of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. The aircraft owned or used by or on behalf of the visiting unit will not be subject to charges for landing or parking in Croatian military bases or fees for flying or air navigation while they are in the Croatian airspace because they apply the principle of reciprocity because they do not pay for our armed forces either. The financial obligations of the parties under this Memorandum will depend on the availability of the funds allocated, in accordance with the applicable state laws. The costs will be agreed on a case-by-case basis within the joint planning group and in accordance with the PFP sofa. In order to meet its needs for training and safety, the guest unit can perform a smaller construction on or near the training facility in Slunj and Gasinci at the airport in Pula, Zadar and Udbina and in the port facilities in Split, Rijeka and Dubrovnik and in the details concerning smaller structures will be an integral part of the special agreement. In the event of an injury or death of Croatian residents during the activities of visiting units where the staff of visiting medical units from the Republic of Croatia may have participated will conduct an examination or autopsy at the time and place to be designated by the Republic of Croatia. The protection of nature and the environment is of special interest to the Republic of Croatia and will pay particular attention to it. The memorandum itself contains specific restrictions in terms of environmental protection, the guest unit will respect the legislation of the Republic of Croatia that regulates the environmental protection issue. Any claims on compensation incurred as a consequence of the activities under this Memorandum will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. NATO sofas. The competent authority for the implementation of this Memorandum in the Republic of Croatia shall be the central authority of the State Administration responsible for defence affairs. The Parties may conclude separate implementing agreements in order to allow this Memorandum to be implemented. Such implementing agreements will be concluded by the Ministry of Defence and will be co-signed by authorised representatives of a company or a ministry responsible for individual agreements on issues regulated. This memorandum shall remain in force for a period of 5 years from the date of entry into force. After that, its duration may be extended for the same period of time, unless one of the parties in writing informs the other party of his intention to cancel or express his wish to achieve this memo. Each party may at any time cancel this memo after the first year. The notice of termination or conclusion of a new memo must be delivered in writing by diplomatic means no later than 6 months in advance. This Memorandum may be amended or supplemented at any time and with mutual consent by both parties. The amendments and additions shall be in writing and shall include the full name and date of conclusion of the MoU. Any disputes concerning the interpretation and application of this Memorandum will be settled through consultations between the parties and will not be referred to the resolution of the third party to the domestic or international court. In case of non-compliance with this memo and PFP sofa, the PFP sofa is appropriate. This memorandum will take effect on the date of receipt of the last written notification by diplomatic means, which shall report to each other that the conditions laid down by national legislation have been met for its entry into force. The discussion on committees also raised the question of who is a party to this contract, and according to the interpretation of the foreign ministers of the independent department of international legal affairs, it is doubtless that, on the other hand, the European Command has signed this on behalf of the Government of the United States of America, the signing of the opinion of the Head of the International Legal Affairs Department, Ms. Andreja Metelko Zgombic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31031	Thank you very much, Minister. Stanka. Resume at 15.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Reporters of the Working Body Committee on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security, Chairman of the Committee Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31033	Mr President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed at the 32nd session held on 19 January 2005 on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States of America on the use of airspace, polygons, the protection of maritime ports and training facilities by the US Armed Forces in Europe submitted by the President of the European Council to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Following the debate, the Committee adopted a decision to support and adopt the proposal for a bill confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States acting on behalf of the Government of the United States concerning the use of airspace, polygons, airports and maritime ports and training facilities by the US Armed Forces in Europe in the text proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31034	Thank you very much. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. I'm opening a debate. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative Kresimir Cosic's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31035	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here are a few words about military cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States, as well as a few words about this memo that has been very current these weeks. First, at the beginning of a few words on the objectives which are intended to be achieved by the adoption of the law in question. The most important objective of this memo, as well as of all relevant documents that preceded it, is to further improve good bilateral military-military cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the United States, I would like to highlight the cooperation that has been going on for 11 years. That may have been forgotten by many, no. In a formal sense, military-military cooperation between the Republic of Croatia between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the United States was signed exactly 29. 11. 1994. It's probably for a lot of surprises. In these past 11 years, this was the only one I would say, a quality bilateral form of military cooperation that has no small and significant results behind it that have had a major impact on the development of the Ministry of Defence, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with NATO standards known to require interoperability, compatibility, etc. This agreement of 29. 11. In 1994, which is the basis of our bilateral military cooperation, it should be stressed that it was brought back to the time of the so-called “Bilateral Military Cooperation. ” The "Bihaq crisis" and while conflict at the premises of the former Yugoslavia has escalated to a full extent. The agreement stresses the basic objectives of bilateral co-operation that should contribute not only to regional security but also to global security, stressing the importance of the Charter of the United Nations, emphasising the principles of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the unchangeability of borders. This was extremely important at the time in 94 when many others had the illusions especially of Karadzic, Mladic and Milosevic that borders could change. He stresses requirements for territorial integrity, talks about democratic responsibility and transparency, etc. And it was an agreement that in any case enabled the development and training of systematic and organised soldiers, officers, officers and generals of the Croatian Army at the institutions of the United States Department of Defence. I would like to highlight almost hundreds of representatives of the Croatian Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence within the so-called "Defenced". The AIMED programme was attended by American institutions from several years to several months, and here I stress that it was an agreement and a foundation that allowed Croatian officers to go to West Point and other US Ministry of Defence institutions. The agreement also opened the door of cooperation with the European Security Studies Centro in Garmisch, so-called The Marshall Center, co-operation was established through the so-called JOINT contact team program that was the predecessor to the Partnership for Peace. And at the end of the agreement, one requirement that we are more and more talking about today and that is very relevant today is stressed. Both parties to this agreement recognise the need, the importance of regulating the status of the US forces especially during their stay at joint exercises in the Republic of Croatia in each other's discussions and discussions. Since 94, this co-operation has grown, especially experienced its own, I would say significant intensity after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Partnership for Peace in 2000 and after that and the amendments to the Law on Defence have taken place some changes that have allowed the Croatian Parliament to become much more involved in the supervision of all these processes. Thus, according to the 2002 Law on Defence, a series of exercises by the joint armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the United States have already been highlighted. Then in 2003, this intensity and range of exercises increased to 9. Then in 2004 at 10, etc. For all these reasons, it was normal, logical and justified to improve the legal frameworks on the basis of which this bilateral military cooperation would take place so that it would have as few problems as possible. I would certainly like to emphasise, without these agreements, that military cooperation has been successful, it has been organised and there have been no special incidents that could be worrying in any way. I note that since 1995, when the IFOR mission began, NATO's first peacekeeping operation, the Republic of Croatia has helped and given great support to the so-called Operation Eqvipment Train, the Croatian port of Ploče, over which nearly a million tonnes of cargo has been transferred to neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina has assisted in these NATO efforts. In 1994, a Partnership for Peace was established, after which the so-called Peace Partnership was signed in 1995. NATO PIEF WRITINGS. And I would particularly like to stress that this basic framework for the cooperation of the NATO military forces dates back to 1951. So in 1951, basic legal frameworks were established through which NATO member states cooperated and exchanged their military forces. That so-called. NATO SOFA was expanded in June 95, so-called NATO PIEF WRITING has taken over all the basic standards that were already established in 1951. I will therefore, for reasons of illustration to see what standards these are, and some of them we are talking about today, emphasize in particular some of them, Article 2. NATO SOFE. The duty is to respect the legal order of the receiving State and to refrain from all activities that are not in the spirit of this Agreement. Article 3 regulates identification documents relating to the entry and exit of forces or its members where it states that members of the Armed Forces of NATO Signatories SOFE, or NATO PFP SOFE, will be exempt from the application of rules on passports and visas, as well as from the territory of the receiving State. Today, in 2005, some of these views are surprised, and we forget that they were standards that were established in 1951. Furthermore, only for the following documents will it require members of the personnel of the identity card issued by the State of the tailor, etc. Furthermore, as regards some other documents such as driving licences, uniforms, registrations, Article 4. SOFE NATO in 1951. In this particular case, the receiving State shall accept the Republic of Croatia as valid without the verification of the knowledge, driving or payment of the fee as a temporary driver’s licence, i.e. the driver’s licence issued by the State of the spiker to a member of the force or civilian component. The members of the force will, as a rule, be subject to the uniform of the military authority of the imperator State in the territory of the receiving State exclusively to criminal and tight jurisdiction in accordance with the law of the State of the tailoring country. Today it may seem unusual, but it seems unusually simple from the fact that with all these legal norms I would say to NATO standards and the legal gain of NATO, unfortunately many are not familiar with it. Furthermore, a member of a force or a civilian component may, on the first arrival, be free of customs duties, may introduce its own motor vehicles, etc. NATO's SOFA document and NATO's extended PfP SOFA in this House were adopted on December 7th 2001. I would like to stress that the basis of all these documents has established a standard of far more quality, fuller and more complete and that it has been logical and normal for it to be further added at bilateral level between the Ministry of Defence and the United States Department of Defence which, in this case, when we talk about this Memorandum, is represented by the European Command of the American Forces in Europe. Some articles that may have been questionable these days, I would especially point out that they are in line with all the previous documents and that they are accordingly further regulation of the procedure or so on. standard operating procedures to ensure that all these exercises are carried out as efficiently as possible, more efficiently, more organised without unnecessary problems. Article 5 I would highlight it and here he was specifically referred to, talking about the following. This Memorandum establishes a joint co-ordinated expert team to be composed of Croatian and US representatives. They will be responsible for coordinating all issues related to the control of polygons, operational procedures and planned and operational implementation, operations by the United States forces. The Croatian Permanent Representatives and their Deputys in the Coordination Team will be appointed from the following institutions of the Republic of Croatia: the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, spatial planning and construction, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Croatian control, air navigation, etc. This expert coordination team believes that there are people who are sufficiently serious and responsible and professional in their portfolios that all issues that are important for organising such joint unilateral or bilateral exercises are capable of solving the interests of the Republic of Croatia in all segments, and also support important bilateral military cooperation. The coordination team will be responsible, as it stands here, for establishing long-term plans and standard operational training procedures. It will be responsible for harmonising approved joint operations and what is most important in Article 6 of the concrete annual plans and cooperation programmes, which will include the schedule of proposed exercises, will be approved in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. as it specifically writes here in accordance with the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore clear that this Memorandum represents one broader framework, and any concrete activity will be verified through the work of joint coordination teams. Also some issues that referred to as e.g. Article 11 on the addition of certain facilities shall be governed by the relevant supplementary agreements and, therefore, shall be read in Article 11 concerning smaller structures, part of the agreement between the parties shall be set out. What do you say in the end? It is the continuity of building a legal framework for successful bilateral military co-operation between the two ministries. Finally, this bilateral military co-operation will be based on this, today it is a very current legal property of the European Union, what we are talking about today is also a legal gain of NATO given our ambitions, goals and desire to become as soon as possible full members of NATO's organisation, it is clear that we need such a Memorandum and therefore the HDZ Club will support ratification, i.e. by confirming the Memorandum of Military Cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31036	Thank you very much. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31037	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The first thing I want to say is that it is good that the Prime Minister himself, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has accepted that this Memorandum is going into regular procedure, as it will say in two readings. However, what should also be highlighted at least in the opinion of the IDS Club, this agreement that is today ahead of us is bad. Why is it bad? Well, because so far here in Parliament we've been getting a whole series of so-called. The partial agreements that have been set when, for example, the American unit has come to an independent or joint exercise in the Republic of Croatia. This agreement sublimes all those laws that we have so far concluded, which concerned military cooperation between the United States and the Republic of Croatia, more specifically cooperation when military exercises are based on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and, in the opinion of the IDS Club, this is bad. It is also bad because Parliament is marginalised in this way. So when they will be or should be held in Pula, Zadar, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, Udbina, Gashinci, Slunje, etc. This House will no longer be decided by this Parliament, but this is how it was decided in the jutura by this Memorandum. Third, why is this agreement bad? Apparently, the president himself, Mr Stipe Mesic, didn't know about him. Now it is completely irrelevant who it is and when, as it was written in the press, it has brought Mrs. Jelena Grčić-Polic to the post of assistant minister, but this communication by the Ministry of Defence, the President of the Republic, that is, the relationship between some of the people in the General Staff and the Ministry of Defence is unacceptable and we are here as a country mature for a great improvement. Let's drop that truck deal now. There may have been pre-election policies, however, this Agreement goes beyond the authority of the Ministry of Defence itself. It's too big a thing to avoid the President of the Republic. Why? Because the whole country de facto, in a way, to simplify, sublime, becomes a military polygon of the United States, and its, meaning the President's fundamental role must be to worry about the sovereign conduct of the state institutions for which the Constitution is in charge. I have to be honest, I like the fact that the smallest military budget from independence to this day was the Croatian Military Budget for 2004. Why? Well, because Croatia has a whole range of other problems, from pension standards, employment policies, investment in capital projects, I don't know, to the fact that the external debt eventually exceeded $28.5 billion last year. I'm undermining, $28.5 billion. $5 billion bigger than it was in late 2003. And I personally believe that in reducing those costs, the Department of Defense has played a big deal. In some ways, social peace in the military, led to the reform of the Croatian Army, reduced the number of employees with the least means of independence to date, but a clearly abolished technological obligation. And we're all aware of that because there's just no money for all of us. Clearly, what I find unimaginable is that the minister of defense, under quotes, is joking at the expense of the President of the Republic. It just can't do that. Why? Because the military acts primarily on the basis of the Constitution, or the law, but also the authority of the commander, from sergeants to brigades, from brigades to generals, from the Prime Minister to the Prime Minister himself to the President of the State. And no one here is allowed to disrupt anyone's dignity because it violates either the command line or the vertical line within the army. To return to this memo. Being against this memo is not gonna be against the United States. Croatia and the United States, as we heard earlier from counterpart Cosic, have had an agreement since 29.11. 1994. Croatia helped the United States of America in space when they came to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the reverse United States helped Croatia in the Homeland War, and this should be appreciated. Being against this Memorandum is not against NATO, and he is condicating the son of qua non, so we are talking about NATO, Croatian entry into the European Union as was NATO and for one Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Poland, Lithuania, Ukraine and so on, not Ukraine, this, Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia, etc. I personally think America is a land of true democracy. I think it's for many Americas today, even with these areas of "the promised land." I think the European continent has to be grateful to America because its strength was dominant in the straw and the force of the axes in World War I, and in their positive role in II. I won't waste a word of my time in the world war. But I also think, today, that their aggression in Iraq is harmful throughout the civilized world and that act of the Bush administration determines our every debate about Croatian-American cooperation. And that message in some way, between the lines, doesn't have to be sent by this Parliament, but it feels in our regular communication. What's happening today in Iraq, it's a big accident for Iraq, for small peoples, the world at all. It is clear that this Memorandum should also be seen in the context of Croatia's desire to join NATO alliance. It is clear that the United States again plays a key role there and it is clear to all of us that there is no entry into the European Union if we do not enter the NATO alliance before that. Those who think Croatia can survive without the European Union are also naive in my court. If Croatia does not finally take advantage of this moment in 17.3. to start negotiations, Croatia is afraid to enter the European Union with Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, i.e. as part of the Western Balkans, and we will all agree that this would not be very promising for this country. And therefore, the consensus around the EU is necessary, as is necessary, to side with the consensus and when co-operation with The Hague is, or it is necessary to side with the consensus and when the extradition of war crimes suspects is due. Everyone in this country would probably like to join the European Union and stay out of NATO in some way, but it just doesn't work that way. The European Union is not a Swedish table to take what is right for us, and we leave what we think is not good at some point. Finally, NATO's role on the other side has certainly been positive lately. And to these areas in general, they didn't participate in Iraq, and they guaranteed 100% safety for the countries where they were present. So what's the United States of America interested in when this Memorandum is due? They are interested in the first Pula airport, Zadar airport, Udbin airport, military polygon Slunj, Gashinci, Rijeka ports, Split, Dubrovnik. So, in some ways, the United States is interested in the entire Adriatic coast. That's exactly what I shouldn't agree to, and first of all, I'm thinking clearly about Pula. I also understand that their warships come in front of Athens, come in front of Naples, come in front of Venice, Copra, Trieste, as they come in front of Dubrovnik. And their atomic ships are coming, and I'm against it absolutely. We can't fight them, God forbid. But one word should not turn Croatia into a large military polygon and free of charge. Now we've heard of this pay phone a little while ago that maybe their presence could help someone, under quotes, military tourism, but because of their decentness, I just don't want to comment on it. What's the point? The Americans will be able to perform military exercises on the ground of the Republic of Croatia when they wish, however they wish, without compensation. Now, gentlemen, that's inadmissible. If it were a joint exercise, I could sort of understand, accept it, but when the other party in the territory of the Republic of Croatia does military exercises without compensation, it is in some ways just disrespect. Finally, the state may waive some compensation, but why would the compensation in some way give up, say, local self-government? Nowhere, in my court, has it been specified or has it not been precisely arranged anywhere which, in the case of, say, damage to some Croatian citizens. True, this article 7 is mentioned. Sopha or Sofa, however, few people outside of this assembly know it again. On the other hand, the Memorandum takes five years. Nowhere is said which forces are concerned, how many soldiers, ships, planes can be at some point in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The ban on flights above national parks is mentioned. I assure you that it is less damage when planes fly, for example, above the islands of Brijuni or Plitvica, than Poreč or Rovinj, Pula or Opatija, Dubrovnik or I don't know Zadar, especially in the course of the tourist season, etc. Article 9 states that aircraft, ships other than... commercial aircraft and ships, benefiting from the Government of the United States in relation to the activities of this Agreement in the Republic of Croatia, will be exempt from customs duties, customs controls, taxes, etc. They won't pay for the costs of flying, air navigation, the use of civilian, airport, seaports, should not endanger the safety and regular development of civil traffic, at least that is built in. I'd like to point out that, too, you should drop out of Pula Airport. It's a civilian airport today. The airport, which will mainly after Air Adriatic chose it as its home airport, will certainly be more visited than it has ever been, and tourism, military, business is hard to go together. Article 4(5) states that these forces will pay the costs of services provided by civil facilities according to publicly published tariffs or concluded agreements except for the use of military facilities, defence ministry infrastructure, armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, etc. In one word, I don't know this benefits of Croatian authorities when this agreement is, at the very least, astounding. Why we're so wide-handed, it's just that no one can explain it to me. Instead of reducing the number of polygons, instead of trying to demilitarize Croatia as much as possible, we try when we don't have the money to bring in another army instead. What do we get with this agreement? What? That's a fundamental question. If someone convinces me of some benefit of the agreement, then it can be voted for, but this is very difficult or better said by no means. So the memorandum is touching. First of all Pula, Zadar, Udbine, Split, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, Slunj, Gasinac. And finally, when will Mr. Ministers in the city of Pula return to the facilities, more precisely the facilities of the Croatian Army that are not needed by the military? The river has become a demilitarized city. I'm betting that after it became Umag, Pazin becomes Pula in some way. As an army, as well as a city, I just don't know. It is not a shame of such complexes, for example in Katarina, which fall apart with whom everyone carries whatever he wants from the stone stairs to the piles from the roofs and that no one reacts, it is inadmissible. It seems enormous social damage to these abandoned objects, and no one to set one up and pay one guard. If we're serious, we commercialize that property. I don't think you should sell anything, but let's get someone to rent, take care of it and pay that rent. This situation, for example, is inadmissible in that city, which is more so every seven square feet of that city is somehow militaryly owned. I know it's a state-of-the-art from Austria, but the fact that the Croatian military should not, in some way, return the city as it tries with the Brijuni-Rivier society, in which the state in some way introduces 400 hectares and this is a positive thing, because these complexes have always been managed in Vienna, Rome, Belgrade, etc., has never been decided in Istria. With such a model, Pula should also resolve the issue of some important military properties. For the end of the agreement, I think it is below the level of concern about the dignity of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31038	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31039	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a few incorrect allegations, so I'll try to make it right in a hurry. One thing is that the incorrect assumption that the purchase of the truck exceeds the Department of Defense, which is absolutely not true. Because the Department of Defense will probably be able to choose whether Italian or German, whether it's cheaper or more expensive. And about how it was done before, say... trains, then silenced. So that's number one. Secondly, it is incorrect that the minister was joking at the expense of the president, we finally know what the current president's jokes are, that the mildly said are far worse. Because it was all true, finally, that everything was said and used for pre-election purposes. Thirdly, it's also incorrect to become an American military base, because something, in something we have to participate in, we want to go to Iraq or stay here, I think we'd better play some guns here than go to Iraq. And finally, Istria doesn't have to be afraid of Americans, it's always been very brave and loyal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31040	And the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31041	Well, I'd like something about the memo itself. I think the incorrect finding is, I don't think, but I'm sure with this memorandum, or its signing allows the American forces to go to Croatia wherever they want and whenever they want to have exercises. As far as I can remember, it has been so far, and will remain after this House decides where and when and when international military exercises will be held. I think it's very important to keep in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31042	Minister of Defense, Berislav Roncevic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just what the distinguished representative Lucin said, the contents of this memo can be applied after the decision of the Croatian Parliament to approve military exercises and the entry of members of foreign armed forces into the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore entirely incorrect to bypass the Croatian Parliament with the content of this memo. The Law on Defence of Article 6 makes it perfectly clear to me that Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia speaks of it. Only when the Croatian Parliament, on the proposal of the Ministry of Defence and on the proposal of this Joint Commission, determines what priorities, which are the needs of joint exercise activities, do we come out with a proposal before the Croatian Parliament as we did last year for the Croatian Parliament, and this is the decision of the Croatian Parliament. Only after that will the provisions of this Agreement apply and the possibility of concluding additional agreements as indicated for a smaller technical and construction procedure agreement on our existing facilities. Therefore, this memorandum absolutely respects national legislation and the possibility of entering members of foreign armed forces is solely decided by the Croatian Parliament. This is not an agreement of the Ministry of Defence, and... with the government of the United States, this is an agreement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This agreement was not bypassed by the President of the Republic of Croatia, it was done in everything in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Defence and the Law on the conclusion, enforcement of international contracts. In 2003, the Croatian Parliament confirmed an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States in cooperation on preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction and promoting defence and military relations. According to the same procedure in the 8 process steps, this Law when confirmed here in the Croatian Parliament went to sign the President of the Republic, all in accordance with the law. And in the adoption of this memorandum, the Ministry, which led me to apply the same preparatory procedure, formed a negotiating team, made a draft of this agreement with the American Party, and then the Government now approved the way and content of the negotiations and authorised the Assistant Minister to sign this agreement on behalf of the Government, not on behalf of the Ministry, but on behalf of the Government. It is therefore incorrect to state that any institution authorised by the Constitution and by law in the procedure and the preparation and conclusion of this Memorandum has been bypassed. It is true that the smallest military budget since it is independent of Croatia. And it is true, but it is incorrect that because of this, in a technological sense, we have lagged behind, even in the past year with the greatest rationalization and separation of and continuing the transition of staff from the Croatian Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence, we have opened up the possibility of investing more in technological recovery than in the years when this budget was more exhaustive. Real estate and demilitarization. The most real estate Croatian government and this current and all governments so far have handed over to local self-government in the Istria area. We have basically two objects we're on all of Istria. The structure of the force is done within the framework of a strategic review of the defence, it is done by the main headquarters and only after the adoption of the structure of the forces we will be able to say finally which military facilities are for us perspectives, which are the inspective ministry is not the owner of military facilities, they are the state property managed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry cannot assign military facilities to management. We can tell our assessment of their perspective or their lack of perspective and then the Government will appreciate the country's programmes and needs to decide on further availability of these properties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31044	Thank you, Minister. Honorable representative of the representative Pero Kovacevic Club of HSP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31045	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! A new Croatian-American military memorandum signed on July 15th 2004, caused a storm in our public before it became known all its contents. All the international military agreements signed on behalf of Croatia, as a rule, gave foreign troops an incomprehensible freedom of action in Croatia. The first such military addition to the Dayton Agreement of Croatia and NATO on the legal position of NATO personnel and troops was signed in 1995, and according to it, NATO troops intended for a mission to establish peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina were granted the same rights on the ground of Croatia. as if they were establishing and establishing peace here and here, so they don't have to or have to answer to anyone. The second is such a Croatian-American military agreement to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction signed in February 2003. Namely, this agreement gives the US troops and civil personnel on the ground of Croatia immunity from all criminal acts, guarantees the punishment for all those who oppose them, releases American troops from any control of imports, guarantees that Croatia will suffer from its budget any damage that foreign troops or their members commit by acting on our soil. American warships can go to our ports and American planes to our airports whenever they want them to. it is understood that a permit has already been granted. Such concessions are unimaginable among NATO member states. Such concessions do not stem from NATO's agreement on the status of military forces, so-called. SOFA and the additional protocol taken over by all members of the Partnership for Peace and Croatia at the end of 2001. SOFA should be based on one side on all similar agreements. On the other hand, SOFA should represent maximum concessions to foreign troops on Croatian soil. The SOFA Agreement much more carefully regulates the issue of immunity of members of foreign troops, compensation for the damage done, the movement of troops and the like. It is also regulated that foreign troops should respect the legal order of the state in which they reside. The members of foreign troops will, in all respects, be recorded at the entry into a foreign country, can carry arms but their governments will respect the restrictions of the state in which they are staying and, in particular, under Article 7 of Mr Cain's mention of a criminal liability and so that foreign soldiers respond to their military authorities by responding to the authorities of the state in which they reside if they commit a criminal offence which is punishable under local laws, punish the authorities of their country only for acts against their citizens and for acts committed only in the exercise of official duty. If one of the host countries or the consignor decides not to use its right to do so, he shall inform the other Party. Any disputed cases shall be determined either by arbitration or by diplomacy, or shall be decided by the judiciary of the State in which they reside. Croatia has not resolved the issue so far. The question of damage is also defined. Therefore, all of Croatia's concessions are indeed unnecessary and ridiculous, especially if they are calculated to speed up our NATO entry. Why would they welcome us there anyway if they had already received from us everything they could not otherwise forge from their member states. The new Croatian-American Memorandum of Understanding regarding the use of airspace of airport and seaport polygons and training facilities does not contain concessions such as the 2003 Croatian-American agreement, which you ministers said correctly but does not understand these incomprehensible concessions. However, it contains a series of worrying pearls for Croatia. Under Article 3 of the Memorandum, every US soldier must be registered on entry into the country because this is the same practice introduced into NATO SOFA Agreement on the Search of the United States, and that is all that can be brought about with regard to the SOFA Agreement. The memorandum was signed between the domestic civil authorities, so the government of the Republic of Croatia and foreign military authorities. So, therefore, the European Command, which is inconceivable for us to be an entity on the other hand, is one of the command of the American army. Moreover, this strange asymmetry is going through the entire memorandum. According to Article 9 of the Memorandum, every US military unit on the use of the airport directly negotiates with the civil administration of the airport and negotiates directly with the civilian concessionary of the port and negotiates directly with the Croatian flight control. There are no Croatian state authorities or any city government anywhere in this area, so apparently, U.S. troops can act as if the whole of Croatia is one big military base. The US units referred to in Article 3 shall have the right to take all measures to protect themselves from terrorism beyond the limitations of the SOFA Agreement, which has the right to maintain only order and security within their camps and, outside of that, their security should be guaranteed by a special law of the host country. In this case, Croatia has no such law at all. In accordance with Article 11, for the purposes of their training and safety, American troops can carry out "less construction" in Slunj and Gasinci and at the airports of Pula, Zadar and Udbina and at the ports of Split, Rijeka and Dubrovnik. From everything it's clear which ports... It's important to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is obvious that it is the right to build its military camp in these ports and airports with bunkers, sandbags, barbed wire, ramps and other things that are likely to hit tourist workers in the cities in question, especially in Dubrovnik, which already had the honour of experiencing in the middle of the 2001 season in its port of stockpiling on American submarines on nuclear power. A special story is the purpose of this memo. Namely, one is military exercises involving the Croatian armed forces to train them and something else is the rental of our polygons, ports, airports and the like exclusively for training foreign troops without participation and training our armed forces. According to Article 4 of the US unit's memos on the ground of Croatia are fully equated with HV units, do not pay anyone anything to use our polygons and military bases, airspace, military ports or to occupy space in warehouses, parking, maritime and air navigation, so they do not pay anything. Croatia thus turns into a large and free American military base or a polygon. The comparisons do remember that the cancellation of the Slovenian army's exercise is gunnery on Slunjski polygon in 2003, for which the MORH wanted to charge at that time 375 thousand kuna for renting the Slunja polygon and they are now getting everything bad here. For the use of ports and airports and for... However, special agreements have yet to be concluded, or no one should be happy about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The special contract should clearly determine who manages the military base or... during military training. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Italy, it is a practice for a foreign commander to be at the base as his own... Military base hosts or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] guaranteeing the quality of the service and keeping an eye on the maintenance of the facilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He is also in charge of foreign military relations with locals in the neighbourhood of the base, or with the domestic population of the base employee. Foreign troops using military bases or polygons usually seek and agree to arrange their right to build a specific transport infrastructure for their needs, which in turn impairs... the use of marine goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, usually foreign troops are looking for a new telecommunications system, a ban... the areas of the base or polygon or the right of the championship of foreign units on roads or at the port before and after the exercise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, it is usually required to be entitled to meteorological, hydrological, geological research in and around the base area. None of this is defined here. The accidents in military exercises are not excluded, but the accident was caused by US aircraft, will be carried out by a Croatian commission with members of the United States. Yet the American side has been granted a private investigation. There are no letters on resolving the issue of possible criminal responsibility of US soldiers at least at the level normally guaranteed by NATO SOFA agreement, so who is conducting the investigation, who is responsible for what, when only the Croatian criminal proceedings are applied and so on. This is the question, otherwise, in all the countries with the United States of America that have an Agreement on the Using of Military Bases has raised the greatest attention. In each country, it is otherwise determined whether the criminal offence is indeed committed by official duty or not, i.e. In this criminal act, a foreign soldier may call for immunity under the SOFA agreement, in Great Britain the British court, in France an arbitration of the domestic judiciary and foreign command, in Turkey, Japan, is on diplomacy. The memorandum does not mention it, there is no speech on the conclusion of any special agreement because representatives of Croatian civilian authorities, representatives of the US military force, did not seem to matter. In fact, residents of an American free military polygon called Croatia will somehow manage. And now I have to remind you of... Indian me Black Legs represented by the chief, the one who is a shield and a war eagle in the air and the Indian officers, the one who scares bears and buffalo with a beautiful voice, made an agreement with the United States in 1865 that was more favourable than this agreement and this agreement, which Croatia concluded in 2003 and further concluded because it includes compensation for damages and guarantees military protection of the United States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The black foot Indians in their agreement, however, assured on their part that they would prevent any violence and hostility against the citizens or property of the United States, and that, if physically necessary, they would prevent other peoples from harming the citizens or property of the United States. As much as all of his international relations with the Black Leg Indians... The judgments of the great white chief,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The President of the United States or his envoys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Any similarity to Croatia is not random.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31046	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS, Ms. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31047	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before any further debate on the Law confirming the memorandum of agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States on behalf of the Government of the United States of America on the use of airspace, polygons, airports and maritime ports and training facilities by the US Armed Forces in Europe, the question arises as to how there has been a initialling of such a significant document in the summer in Ramstein on 15 July and that the content of this document has not been previously met by parliamentary representatives, let alone that a public debate has been held. The document abounds at least in ambiguities, all too simplified which in some other context for our administration might be educational but in this case this generality leaves the possibility of different interpretations. The very opening part highlights the fact that this law extends the bonds of friendship, cooperation and promotion of the interests of the two states. We want to be part of NATO forces but only in the most general approach can compare the equal interests of the two states. Although we are not yet in NATO, for Croatia this means that it can and should accept the obligations of NATO members. But according to its size, geostrategic space, the size of its armed forces and, in particular, economic development and special interests in the sphere of tourism, eco-space, agriculture and the like. Only on condition that at least part of Croatia's special interest can be compensated for such an equalisation of interest. This topic is only discreetly indicated in the last paragraph of the introduction to the memorandum when quoted, quote: "to strengthen military co-operation and to improve... The willingness and efficiency of their forces, I stress their armed forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The very fact that the Republic of Croatia is the first in line with the provisions of SOFE between the Republic of Croatia and NATO forces of 94, 95 and the second SOFA PFP adopted by the Republic of Croatia by entering the Partnership for Peace programme does not prejudge the need to sign memos in this kind of exposed form. Both documents regulate the status of staff of NATO and PFP armed forces and have been transferred in Article three of this Memorandum. The content of the memorandum depends exclusively on the ability of the State and the negotiators to conclude such an agreement with the United States to define, represent and defend their specific interests. The closest example is the regulation of the presence of US military forces in friendly Allied countries. This is how the example for the Republic of Germany, after the negotiations in 93, achieved the revision of SOFE and the US military forces must comply with the provisions of the German Federal Law on Ecology and the supervision of US bases is carried out by German authorities. It is similar with negotiations on the SOFE change with South Korea. As a goal to be achieved by accepting such a memorandum, I would like to quote again: "Integrating activities to strengthen partnership relations and promoting good co-operation in the area of defence so far. Good bilateral relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States are said to result in good relations in other areas of interstate co-operation. The co-operation of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia with the US Ministry of Defence is therefore said to be in constant growth, significant intensity and of exceptional importance. It may be useful to explain more precisely what the co-operation of these two ministries is of such importance, what these scientific research is for military purposes, what is the practical benefit of this study of defence resources management between the US Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and meetings at the highest levels, possessions and bilateral defence consultations. Since this Memorandum allows for the arrival of members of the Armed Forces of a state that has, on more than several occasions, been the victim of terrorist attacks, both in their own territory and in other countries, these issues are certainly not excessive because there is a need for measuring the risks and benefits that their presence in the Republic of Croatia represents. How much taxpayers will cost. The amount of financial resources needed to implement this Memorandum. And it's not clear anywhere. The price of the funds necessary for the implementation of the acts states that the implementation of the memorandum certification law will take place through the regular activities of the Ministry of Defence and that funds from the state budget intended for the work of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will be used for the implementation of the law. Article 10 of the Memorandum states that the financial obligations of the parties in this Memorandum of Understanding will depend on the availability of money in accordance with the applicable national laws. It also states that the costs of these visiting... or these guest units, for the use of military facilities, goods and services will not be greater than those paid for the same purposes by the Croatian Armed Forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia do not pay the aforementioned costs of use, these are analogues and the US Armed Forces to release the costs of use. Such an American side freed from fees for landings, parking in Croatian military bases, and flying charges, air navigation in the airspace. The payment of services obtained from civil entities will be settled by the conclusion of a contract or by payment according to publicly published tariffs, as referred to in Article 4(5). This will result in a special agreement on the conditions of stay at civilian and airport. It is further stated in Article 12(3) of the E Memorandum that the costs related to operations in that article will be covered in a manner specified in Article 10. So who exactly carries the financial burden of these exercises. In particular, the financial obligations of the parties will depend on the availability of the funds allocated. Who shall bear the costs unless one of the parties has the means available for a specific cost. Given that the press during the signing of this memorandum has made claims that the costs incurred by the Republic of Croatia would be more than useful to determine the real situation. When the exercises will take place. Article 19 of the Memorandum states that they remain in force for 5 years from the date of entry into force after which their duration may be extended. Since it provides for the use of airspace, airports, polygons and seaports to be seen in Article 1, it is unclear that tourism, which is nevertheless being implemented, will be protected from the immediate proximity of the military exercises, which still achieves significant resources to fill the state budget. Article 9 of the memorandum defines locations and extends the number of polygons and objects that allow access to US armed forces. In the previous negotiations, the Croatian side has instructed the possibility of using the Slunj polygon and Pula air bases and Udbin, which is ideal for this purpose. Later on, an airfield took place in Zadar for civilian purposes and there are too few dimensions. Furthermore, a decision allowing the construction of non-specific structures in ports and military facilities by means of such a formulation opens up the American side to the possibility of building objects not only on military polygons of installations, but also in the context of civil installations, for example. Luka Slit, Dubrovnik and others. Citing the port of Dubrovnik as a point for the entry of US forces into the territory of Croatia has no excuse whatsoever that there are no military polygons in the vicinity of this city that the US forces could use. How big is the visiting unit visiting unit. It is important and nowhere from the memos can be seen how many members of the armed forces will actually be staying on the territory of the Republic of Croatia during the period of validity of the memorandum. Will there be one or more guest units? It is important to know at least an indicative number of members of the US Armed Forces that are part of this cooperation because the overall situation is different in the case of 10, 200 or more people. In view of this number, it is also necessary to carry out various preparations which are not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence. Environmental issues. It's an extremely important question where military medical and other waste will take place. The guest unit is required to collect and postpone all medical waste produced in connection with medical services during military activities on the basis of a memorandum provision. It is not stated anywhere that this waste will be delayed whether it is eaten in the Republic of Croatia or elsewhere. In particular, it is an interesting question of who will be authorised to grant special approval, as indicated in Article 14, in any case, that the intentional release of fuel, unused and firearms and other weapons into the environment outside the area can be permitted specifically for that purpose. Does this mean that unless an unspecified body approves such deliberate action that it will not constitute a breach of legislation that regulates the issue of environmental protection to what the text of the agreement implies? This would specifically mean that in certain situations, if such a person is allowed to purposely pour fuel on the side of the road or that aircraft can launch missiles into the Adriatic as they allegedly did in the bombing of the Republic of Yugoslavia. If so, such activity is undesirable at any time of the year without mentioning the duration of the tourist season or summer when the Croatian coast is regularly fueled by fires. It is also interesting that limited flights over national parks and parks of nature are Velebit, Article 14, but there are no restrictions on flying large cities where far-reaching consequences arise in case of plane crash. There's also no plan to protect citizens from a plane caused by noise. If it is considered that from Dubrovnik to Zagreb, military planes need under one hour, and from Pula to Zagreb below 20 minutes, because the civilian flight lasts 30 minutes, from Zadar to Zagreb as well. From Zagreb to Osijek one hour, we can easily get the overall impression of the size of Croatia and its actual boredom to perform such exercises. We also need to ask why the Republic of Croatia has just been elected in view of the same for the implementation of these exercises. Is this because the Republic of Croatia is so suitable for these exercises that we know it is not, or because other countries do not want it and consider it necessary evil. In any case, for reasons of access to this agreement, the public authorities of the Republic of Croatia have an exceptional obligation to protect their citizens, flora and fauna against the adverse effects of military exercises and the presence of weapons and other environmental pollutants. But to be active and determined in this, and to provide security for the citizens. Legal jurisdiction over the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, the question arises whether members of the armed forces, i.e. NATO military in the Republic of Croatia applies civil legislation during their stay in the Republic of Croatia. Who and how it provides and thus regulates the provision of mobile and immovable property to citizens of the Republic of Croatia, from possible damage caused by the NATO military. Does NATO's army fall under the provisions of the criminal code if it commits a crime. As the residents of the settlements located close to the polygon are protected and compensated, they still suffer damage from the frequent superlatives of underground detonations. It's a settlement near the Slunja polygon. How it is protected and given is at all possible to protect the specifically protected karst area full of sinks such as Plitvice Lakes and Rurals. An aggressive subway of aggressive underground explosive activity. How roads, forest roads, bridges are charged, which are exposed to increased spending and are the only civilian communication to the local population. The adoption of a memorandum of consent law for anyone who is a primarily important political issue, but in the opening act itself, the fact that this law extends the bonds of friendship between the two countries and the promotion of the interests of the two countries. We want to be part of NATO and the United States is absolutely leading it. Although we are not yet in NATO for Croatia, this means that it can and should accept the obligations of a NATO member, but in accordance with its size, the geostrategic position of its armed forces and, in particular, its economic development. The content of the memo itself is very simple and it accurately determines the relationships relating to operationalization. But the impression is that it's one-sided meeting and that it's not enough to protect some of our specialities. How it is certain that such a signed agreement is ahead of us needs to be fixed in order to be acceptable to Croatia in some way. Because when one day we're in NATO membership to end things, it's too late. The Croatian People's Party and PGS Club proposes to postpone the ratification of this memo for a while, until the memorandum with the developed elements is fully defined and completed. Especially with regard to compensation for damages and liability, and legal jurisdiction over armed forces. In the next debate, the opinion of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, or the Office of the President of the Republic, would be announced. That's why we at the HNS Club and the PGS won't vote for the Memorandum Confirmation Act in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31048	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 207 of the 10-minute hearing application, it was at 16.03 p.m. Minister Berislav Roncevic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31049	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll answer, ma'am, the Honorable parliamentary representative has raised a number of questions. However, there is no problem with me, but I will be free to say a lot too late to discuss when we accepted membership in the Partnership for Peace and when in this House we ratified NATO SOFU and NATO PIEFI SOFU in many ways determined the content of the relationship. We can't go back in respect of these documents. However, you also pointed out several examples by criticising the content itself that absolutely does not stand, and in part of the environmental protection of the 14th Army, the guest unit will respect the legislation of the Republic of Croatia that regulates the issue of environmental protection. So that's the thing that's completely clear. There are regulations in Croatia that regulate the issue of environmental protection. And here it is said that the visiting unit must respect this legislation. These are all dilemmas that, which, normally, there's going to be this joint, joint group. What are the good news and what are the bad side of the arrival of US Armed Forces for joint military exercises in this House is discussed when the motion comes with a proposal for joint military exercises. None of this will be realized, this memo will be a dead letter on paper unless this High House approves our proposal for joint military exercises. Without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, members of the Armed Forces of the United States cannot enter the Republic of Croatia in any way. Therefore, the whole thing when it enters, whether the Croatian interests are whether to come or not to come in to what extent you will decide exactly you parliamentary representatives. The memorandum only addresses the issue when the decision is taken to regulate mutual relations. I also explained the question of compensation in the opening statement. The status of SOFA and NATO PIEFI SOFA means that it is a presense to give equal status to members, i.e. troops of foreign armed forces. If the Croatian Armed Forces do not pay port fees then NATO's SOFI does not pay them even foreign forces. I am happy that Croatian Armed Forces are not paying taxes because it would further burden the budget in part of the Ministry of Defence, but the fact is that at this stage we cannot make any new rules because they are already designated NATO PIEFI SOFOM. And I'm just allowing it to miss reading this text and this memo is saying, anything that isn't arranged by this memorandum is being implemented by NATO SOFA and NATO PIEFI SOFA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31050	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31051	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would only correct the assumption that we are, that we must necessarily accept everything defined by the SOFE agreement of 95 and 2000. As in 93, the Germans could change their contracts with the United States and apply their country's legislation to the US Armed Forces in Germany. And it's also the right time to define at this point, and in the end of the line, we're correcting everything that we've done in SOFI, so this is a chance to do just that. Not to mention the jurisdiction of the Armed Forces and how it will behave in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31052	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31053	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, in all of these discussions, and this is one such debate, it is always difficult to choose between sympathy, likeness and responsible approach to this topic. This is one of the topics for which we at the HSS Club hold that, above all, the responsibility should have no other connotations but simply one responsible debate on the subject we opened long ago. This topic has been open for a long time. We have entered the Partnership for Peace in a kind of way into the entire maze of these military-political associations and NATO makes up the roof cap of these associations. The basic tasks set out in the defence strategy, in the national security strategy and all accompanying documents speak of the fundamental objective of strengthening the Croatian Armed Forces, creating an environment that will be able to provide a valid and efficient response to all possible crisis opportunities in the narrow and wider environment, rationalising the armed forces and the clarity and efficiency of these armed forces, primarily relying on those institutions that are adequately involved in this and the associations that we are seeking. Therefore, this memorandum has two frameworks. The first is the political framework, the second is the legal framework. The political framework is, of course, derived from all those strategies I was talking about. The political framework should also be given a very clear and decident view in the event that a legal framework which, of course, has its drawbacks and that is precisely why it is good that this is the first reading, because this legal framework should correct those political objectives in the policy framework that are important. And what are the important political goals that are to be achieved within this memo. Croatia, of course, is seeking NATO accession. Croatia is a member of the Partnership for Peace. Croatia also wants to facilitate its armed forces as soon as possible. Of course she can't do it alone. This must be in line with the International Community, with the institutions that are just relying on it. It is because of Croatia's working yet one small precedent. And why the precedent? So the precedent is because it signs one such memorandum before it joins NATO, and it clearly wants to say that it is ready, committed to principles, that it is attached to the overall international efforts for better security in Europe, for co-operation in Europe, for an anti-terrorism coalition. So it shows one good will to give just a strong seal and we are not approaching NATO, but of course, and of course it is always the EU's accession. Unfortunately, however, we are witnessing daily how certain good efforts are being made, and also a good positive step that Croatia is taking, and in this case, very often brings, very quickly under suspicion, a certain mortgage that has not simply been seen in advance. Well, now and yesterday, we heard that our start of negotiations with the European Union is again doing some small conditions that are always called the same, which is The Hague, can also come into question and that negotiations and don't have to start when we all thought that they would start together. Whether someone was wrong or someone thought something about which there were no arguments that we will see very soon. Of course, it wouldn't be good not to learn on your own faults, because of that and this memorandum that can't be supported in principle as an approach, we must, of course, support the step and measures that we've taken, and we're headed in this direction. Therefore, we only have to draw on the experiences that NATO members of France, Germany, our Slovenian neighbours and others must draw from those positive assessments that we need to install in one such framework agreement, of course, which does not prejudge even the number of foreign soldiers who will be in our own units together with the Croatian Army or alone. It does not prejudge this because it is the subject of each individual debate, i.e. the decision will be taken in particular. However, I think it would be good in some articles if, of course, there are legal options, first of all, I think of Article 4(3) that outsiders can enter air bases, polygons, ports and facilities without access or without the escort of domestic domicile representatives or Croatian officers. I think the bit should be intervened, and it should be installed there, accompanied by Croatian officers. Of course, financial frameworks should also be aproximately outlined in which one of these events will move dynamically over five years. Furthermore, the question of victims of possible, clearly possible, to no one dear. In Article 13, it should be brought closer to Croatia’s legislation, and it should be seen how to deal with the different possibilities for these victims. They happen every day on our roads and almost everywhere. I therefore think that, for the sake of regulation and for the sake of respect for our country's legal standards, it would be worth it to fully edit one such article in the event of an injury, the death of the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia at the time of the activities under this programme, because for environmental protection we have said so, so we put it in Article 14(2) that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia concerning environmental protection will be respected. So let's put that on for the people. This is the way of expressing, and I think all clubs have said it, their satisfaction that this memorandum will be confirmed in two readings, and that there is the possibility that certain things will be completed, that in the legal norm of those experiences that we already have in the member states of NATO, that we will see our specificities, that clearly those of our most important economic resources, and above all that is tourism, transport and trade, be put in the context of our own interests, and that this whole political framework within which everything that is envisaged, will be brought into line with our needs on the one hand, and on the other hand, I believe that with existing practice in the NATO member states that have regulated this on several occasions, and have resulted in different positions from countries to countries. This is how the HSS Club expects that in the second reading of this remark I have made, they try to legally agree and comply with Croatian legislation and to correct in terms of strengthening the legislation and treatment by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31054	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. He is the first representative and vice president, Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31055	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would first of all like to draw attention to the debate on this bill being conducted by emergency procedure, so that is... You took off the emergency procedure? Okay. That's better, but I don't see what's gonna happen between the first and second readings if an emergency procedure is withdrawn based on this text of an agreement that is, a memo that's ahead of us. Second thing I'd like to point out, we're a member of the Partnership for Peace. We have also accepted all obligations under the Prague Agreement under which we should work on modernising, training and training of the Croatian Army in order to adapt it to NATO alliance standards, in order to become a member of NATO's alliance as soon as possible. Third, of course, it is possible to work not only with the alliance as a aggregate entity but also with individual members of the NATO alliance, and in this respect it is a pity that it was not predicted that, in fact, on the basis of these special agreements, representatives of the NATO Alliance's command could be called especially from the structure... who might actually attend these exercises, evaluate and evaluate. [[You don't understand.]] Although this is not prohibited, we should get the other side around that part and that, in fact, in these concrete exercises, especially when NATO with the United States will also participate in the Croatian forces of all aspects of the Armed Forces of Croatia together, so that they can actually be valued and that in this way we get better quality solutions, or better said and better quality assessments than we can really achieve, and not compared to what is seen only from paper. Fourthly, I advocate that the Croatian Parliament could thus be told by the competent authority of the state administration, here specifically the Ministry and Government of the Republic of Croatia, that the possibility provided for in Article 18 of the Implementing Agreements is particularly useful and that it is practically ordered by the Ministry of Defence that it will be related to the possible adverse consequences related to possible pollutions, regardless of whether it is the release of ballast waters in ships or the damage to airports etc. either the damage to civil objects or the damage to objects that serve the need for defence or the exercise situation in the Armed Forces of Croatia, that such special agreements are practically resolved because such an option has been left, and in addition, such practice is often done by members of the NATO alliance, because we should only remind ourselves that what the PFP SOFA writes, or NATO SOFA actually implies agreements between the countries of the North Atlantic alliance which in this way regulates and, in fact, these same correct principles apply to the Republic of Croatia as if in a specific situation already a member of the NATO Alliance, and in such a situation, it applies. I particularly support that in this command, in fact, the joint body for managing and planning the exercises themselves is present on the Croatian side all of these bodies listed here. In fact, the issue of additional that could or should be taken into account is the issue of port captains that are not included except that they could be indirectly through the Ministry of Tourism, Sea and Transport and Development, because it is actually possible that civil ports such as Dubrovnik, Split, Rijeka are often used and, of course, in such a situation, even though there is a prohibition that civil traffic should not be disrupted, however, it is possible that civil traffic interference can occur in exercise situations which can cause adverse consequences and in such a situation should naturally foresee all these possibilities. I particularly raise the question again that in the event of damage to the exercise sites such as Slunj, Gashinci and so on. or at port facilities in Split, Rijeka, Dubrovnik as provided for in Article 11. where additional structures can be built. Here you should make sure to sign the agreement which is the rule. It is primarily intended for military training, but we should ensure in this agreement that such structures must be removed if damage to civil transport and civil replacement of object number one and number two, that, at the same time, the communicability which the port previously had or if such structures are used and operated for military purposes, can then, in parallel, be designed to improve the actual conditions of use of such objects for civil purposes, and should be used when such an option is open and envisaged. It is also similar to that of Article 10(2) where there will be a speech on compliance of costs on a case-by-case basis. In fact, here when it is said that prices will normally be applied no higher than those applied to the defence. This does not mean that the Republic of Croatia has it, it has free of charge for its Armed Forces it gives, it does not mean that there is no cost of the possible use of individual military facilities that the Republic of Croatia gives to use its army, but without compensation. Therefore, if applied, NATO rules can also be made and it can be debated that in the context of specific agreements or ad hoc agreements from case to case, these issues can actually be identified. And why do I draw particular attention to these questions? Because it is good that this possibility of a special agreement is envisaged and it is good that if there is already a chance of trying to do so with the other side. This means that the other party in such a situation will certainly not avoid such a possibility because it is important to provide for previous agreements precisely because of the fact that the general restriction relating to the available means that must be made possible under the laws of each of the members of this Agreement. So that these exercises could be planned in the future for the next 5 years, and probably a little longer than the facts that will continue. Of course, here is also very important in, when it comes to Article 14. "Protection of nature and the environment" indicates that point 3 explicitly provides for what is prohibited. And that part, which is prohibited, is good, but also on point 3. including all sub-points (a) to (d) should be developed by a special agreement, what if, nevertheless, it happens that independently of the prohibition of a certain... Because of more force, this kind of pollution happens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then there should be a rule that this pollution has to be removed. Not only is real damage compensated, but it is also possible to get out of profits that are very important for that, to protect the natural environment, but also for tourism and other activities, i.e. people's lives and health, and animals in that area. I find it a little unusual for the concept of Article 21 of the dispute settlement, which is based on the fact that in the event of its discrepancies with the rules of the PFE, the PFP and SOFA, the competent authority of the same, or NATO, should actually decide on this. I think in such a situation we should consider not only the possibility to negotiate, etc., one side and the other but to actually... The interpretation can be given by this Memorandum and the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because this Law, approved by this Memorandum, is a pure form, and in fact the content of this Law is in the Memorandum, and it would be difficult to interpret that the Croatian Parliament could not give that interpretation. Of course, of course, in cooperation, of course we hope that it won't have to come to that. Also, this issue of automation can be extended to the next five years if no one cancels within six months. It remains the question, in fact, if cancelled, of the Memorandum should, however, be cancelled, it should be indicated that a special agreement within these 6 months when it is cancelled must indicate what is to be done with the assumed and unrealised commitments related to the previous joint cooperation, i.e. the refusal of the exercise, either through the Armed Forces of the United States, together with the Croatian Army or the independent exercise and the situation that the United States may have under this Memorandum with its military and its civil sector, which follows naturally as special services and activities in that part. And there's one more question left that's equally important. There is a practice of cooperation in such training situations where government associations are engaged in humanitarian law, for example, such as, or humanitarian activity, for example, such as the Red Cross, etc. We here have predicted the actual operation of Croatian health institutions, i.e. sanity, but it should not be excluded by such an option but should be made possible by a special agreement that, in the same situation, it is more so than our Red Cross, which is the same government association, the Red Cross of the United States is a semi-war organisation. Then it is understood that he participates in such training situations. Therefore, it is also necessary to enable this possibility for our Red Cross and, of course, that in that part it can not only act humanitarianly, act exercisely, especially for the achievement of our Protection and Rescue Act, but also in a situation that it can obtain the appropriate means to provide services that will... for all subjects of exercise situations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31056	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31057	Thank you, Mr. President. The intention and desire of the Minister and the Government to please the whole world, especially those great, strong and powerful. However, such an intention can sometimes go astray. To enter into such an undefined, principled, declarative agreement is proportionately simple. It seems he doesn't commit anyone to God knows what. It is very difficult in such an agreement afterwards, if it is not specified, to choose your own interests. Especially when foreign arrangements do not have the same amount of arguments and the same amount of finance. The most difficult, practically impossible, is from such a declaration and framework agreement once it enters. I hope we're all aware of that. But I would only like to look back on three aspects of this Memorandum. It's the first procedure. I believe that the Ministry was careful to respect the legal steps that had to be taken and that this was exactly how it was supposed to go. However, I cannot accept that in this process of following the letter of the law, there was no time for the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces to be informed of what was going on. He said he actually heard about it from the media. There is a strange relationship between this House and the President of the Republic. This morning we heard that the President of the Republic was actively involved in a hysteria, so he's hysterical. This afternoon we heard that everything that was said in the election campaign for the president, and it was said to be a tragic phenomenon, that it was true. In both cases, the chairman kept it quiet as if it were a perfectly normal thing for the president of the state in Parliament to be offended. But that is democracy, democracy is to say your opinion, but democracy is not to be offended. The second aspect of this Memorandum is measures to ensure that the Republic of Croatia and Croatian citizens are protected from damage and unwanted consequences. Nowhere, but nowhere in the Memorandum does it say what will happen, and probably no one knows, what will happen if the other side does not comply with environmental regulations, traffic regulations, I do not know all the regulations of Croatian legislation. These people and their equipment are under the authority of the European Armed Forces Commands of the United States. So, the Republic of Croatia has no God-knows-what with it. Of course, the Republic of Croatia records the entry of these people into territory, so the people of the US Armed Forces and the accompanying staff into the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but the record stops. So we'll know that they're there, of course we'll see and what they'll do, see how they behave. But if they do something wrong, and my God, nothing. The third aspect of which I would like to say a sentence of two is the fact that a good part of these exercises planned as has been the case so far in Slunjsko polygon. Therefore, in one part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, for which all local authorities including the city authority of Slunja and the county government of Karlovac County have concluded that this territory should be used in tourist, agricultural, hunting, forestry, and any other way to exploit, some official initiatives have been launched by the authorities, which by environmental associations. What happened in the last exercises in Slunjsko polygon and what the inhabitants of the region reacted to in a gallant manner, and there was damage to the building including the damage of a church in Josipdol and so on. I don't think it should happen again. However, there is no measure in the memorandum that stands anywhere in this agreement that would guarantee that this will not happen again. All in all, I don't think that parliamentarians in this House can accept without much thought, such a memorandum as was proposed to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31058	Thank you. Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković. I'm wrong, you're up for another commission, but I've been put there. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31059	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will say a lot, very briefly, in addition to this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Memorandums of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States. And I'm only going to say a few facts to support the need to confirm this memo. The Republic of Croatia is certainly unquestionably interested in expanding the area of interstate co-operation with the United States. With good bilateral relations, it is certainly important for us to expand and deepen cooperation at the level of the Ministry of Defence. The agreement also shows the real desire and commitment of the Republic of Croatia to the NATO Pact accession process. And the contribution is in a certain way to establish peace and security throughout the world. That agreement does not endanger the national interests of the Republic of Croatia, but rather the opposite. In my opinion, it gives the Republic of Croatia the opportunity to be a partner and one of the participants is not just a mere observer of the events around us. The decision to implement this agreement shall be taken by the Croatian Parliament anyway. The use of airports as regulated in the agreement will not interfere with civil air traffic. And the issue of environmental protection is fully regulated. That's why I think this agreement for Croatia is not bad and of course I will support this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31060	Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31061	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Allow me also with a few words to refer to this memorandum, or agreement. As his explanation explains, the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia with the Ministry of Defence of the United States is constantly increasing and is of paramount importance for the Republic of Croatia. The Memorandum itself lays down the conditions under which the United States allows the use of airspace, airports, polygons, seaports, and training facilities for the purposes of training and exercise. However, I would like to highlight something from the memo itself, which is, Article 14, which regulates the protection of nature and the environment. And it is said that the protection of nature and the environment is a special interest of the Republic of Croatia and that special attention will be given to that segment. And these are listed actions that will not be allowed without the special approval of the Republic of Croatia, which, of course, is absolutely for support. So, among other things, they say flyover, use of airspace above the national parks, burning waste, fuel release, etc. However, given that there has been a change and that this proposal goes into second reading, I think perhaps in point 5 of this article, we should also see a slightly clearer way to regulate the way in which the environment is suddenly polluted. In fact, I think it may be inappropriate for these visiting troops through the United States Embassy to report directly to the headquarters of each of our institutions. I think that they should do so through the institutions of the Croatian government, whether through the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia or any other segment of the Government they can discuss, I think that might be a good thing to do until the second reading. And I would also suggest that if it is possible to change or add something, that is to say, intervene in the memorandum itself that county eco-indicators should also report directly, because they have a very large responsibility in this segment of environmental protection. Let me also mention just one very specific fact and area, which was mentioned by my colleague Vuljanić for a little while, and this is about the Eugen Kvaternik exercise site, i.e. the Slunj polygon. It is a polygon that was later used in 1965 for former JNA military exercises and covers a space of 240 square kilometers. The fact is that the public is concerned, that environmental associations warn a lot about the state of concern of the population as I said and the Ministry of Defence ordered one environmental impact study at the Eugen Kvaternik - Slunj exercise where knowledge came about, so there are no negative influences on the military exercise centre or these impacts are within the limits of permitted values as regards air and water soil testing. But caution is never enough, and that is why I think more attention should be added in this particular segment, so additional efforts in terms of environmental protection, because I will remind you that the wider area, the wider gravity area, makes more than 30,000 inhabitants, and directly, so within 5 kilometers of the polygon itself lives 11 thousand inhabitants. I will also remind myself that the polygon itself is near Plitvice National Park, Slunje Rastoks, the source of the hearing aid, and the question really is, what would breaking through the sound wall with jet planes mean for the saddled barriers of the National Park or Plitvice? Also in the center of the polygon is the source of the Režnica River, which is preserved for now, and I hope it stays that way. This is what I said or specifically stressed for reasons which, despite the fact that we are aware that we simply have to cooperate, that we should cooperate, that this is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We need to take special care of our environment and suggestions, requests and suggestions from the Ministry of Defence to further, of course, do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31062	Thank you very much. Replicated representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31063	Thank you, Mr. President. I am particularly glad that we agree with my colleague Jelkovac and I about the need to protect the environment in the Slunje area because of the proximity of the national park, because it is a karst area of special interest and under special protection. The only thing that doesn't seem to me is an argument that should be taken into account when we put our views on it is this protection study commissioned by the Department of Defense. Well, it's a clear interest of the Department of Defense to keep that polygon where it is, that's the simplest thing. If someone else had ordered that study, the results might have been different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31064	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31065	Me and Mr Vuljanić agree obviously on the need to take care of the protection of the area, but I really must express my surprise to his scientists who have done this study. I don't believe or know that it wasn't the Ministry of Defence that worked, but the Department of Defence paid for the development of a study at the urban institute which was the institution of study making and which, in turn, hired experts for individual segments. I believe that, in a professional way, they have therefore come to an end by respecting all the elements of this profession. It would be really weird if it were different.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31066	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31067	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The very name of this proposal for a Memorandum Confirmation Act says that it is wanted to do so that the already signed memorandum becomes actually an integral part of our country's internal legal order. What this memorandum has been under way long ago, and this is also visible from an article here since the agreement of 19 June 1995 when it was made between the states of the North Atlantic Alliance and the Member States of the Partnership for Peace. A large number of prescribed activities of joint military exercises have actually been carried out during the past years under the Partnership for Peace and NATO activities programme. So this wouldn't be anything new or special that should be in the future. The memorandum prescribes the right and way to use air transport, polygons, airports and maritime ports, training facilities by US armed forces in Europe. So, for training, I emphasize. I would say that this memorandum is due to the good cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the United States because of the common interest in peace and security. The Republic of Croatia will determine in advance what training facilities they are but will take special care of this memo on national parks, on places and methods of burning waste, so it will take special care to protect the environment from the rest of the fuel, spent weapons and the like. So, it wouldn't go around and leave the case at all. As part of joint planning and governance, the Republic of Croatia will not be subordinated but will be represented through all relevant ministries and the president of this group himself will be a representative of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, one of the basic conditions is that safety and regular civil traffic should not be threatened. It's emphasized here and it's very important. The memorandum shall be concluded for four years with the right to terminate after a year if something does not fit. I believe that truly all of us, when we say that we want to join the European Union and NATO alliance that we must do something, we must give something, we must sacrifice something and, of course, get it. Believing that this memorandum signed will not be a dead letter on paper but that it will literally be applied both in the prescribed way and with the intended purpose and with that intention I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31068	Thank you very much. And the esteemed representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31069	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia! We must admit that even before the debate came in the Croatian Parliament this memorandum caused the whole series to be at least clumsy in our political public life, some rather difficult words have fallen which we can also contextualise at the time of the pre-election campaign but we are certainly aware that a latent conflict has opened between the Ban Courts and Pantovich which is certainly not good for relations. But we want to believe that this can and must change, and that this awkwardness, the initial awkwardness actually won't result in some of our further clumsy moves that could just question this one of our own, maybe after 15 years maybe a slightly strange obsession with the mystification of certain, be a member of certain associations. Always what we're actually wondering is how much that obsession really costs us. It's very important that we be part of the Partnership for Peace, it's very important that we finally enter the NATO Pact, but we also have to ask whether the price we pay is adequate for this particular obsession. Earlier there was a controversy between Croatian Defence Minister Mr Rončević's colleague, Alenka Kosisa Chicin-Shain, whether or not this memo can be changed. If I read article 20 carefully and carefully, it says that it can be changed and complemented at any time but also with mutual consent by both parties. Now, the big question is how long since it has already been signed this way, although I must admit that I do not understand this relationship between the government of the Republic of Croatia is signed by Mrs Jelena Grčić-Polic, the assistant secretary of defense and, on the other hand, is signed by one Brigadier General on behalf of the European Command of the United States. I don't think I know all the right to diplomacy here, but I still think it's disproportionate. On the one hand, it is signed by the Government and the State and signed by the European Command of the United States and clearly that it can still be changed. That's what I think in this context I'm actually looking at this move by the prime minister who recommended that he actually go in two readings to the Croatian Parliament. This means that he did not want the Croatian public to be brought before the final act and somehow I have the impression that it is trying to achieve that this is actually a done deal, that there are some previous agreements and contracts that we have signed that bind us. I'm saying that it wouldn't be a good thing if we were on one side to shake this particular wish of ours, let's be part of Euro-Atlantic integration. One of them is the NATO Pact. But on the other hand, when that fact is needed in some way... We must then ask ourselves whether we are doing everything we can to protect our interests and whether, in the context of this Memorandum, certain solutions could be achieved, or how much this debate in Parliament will help to define some things more clearly that would protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia better than they are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today I had the opportunity to read the text of our esteemed representative, Tadic, in Split, excuse me, Free Dalmatia where he, though I do not know if his title is but it is possible to extract that the American bunker is in Split's port and just from the article, just a moment, yes, Article 2 for the purposes of his, says, decisions and security are possible to perform smaller structures in Split and... Pula, Zadar and Udbina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now what that actually means is less, to do smaller structures. You see, these are actually things that I don't think anyone can miss out on a free interpretation that it has to be precisely defined whether or not you perform these smaller structures, in which sense, I don't know, they're touching someone... The plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We all know that units of local self-government have real problems to perform even some necessary reconstructions in their space, and I don't know, are led like this precisely this memo leaves the possibility that at the end of the day, regardless of the partner or other armed forces in your premises, on such important facilities as the airport and Pula, Zadar, Udbin, the ports of Split, Rijeka and Dubrovnik work some smaller, some smaller structures. I don't think this really needs to be seen as any kind of fiddling, as a real desire to question this one tendency which, in some way, we owe to a certain bad historical experience in the fact that we are 91st, 2nd, and later really fought a war when, without weapons, so I don't tell you about it and there's no need, and I don't need to understand exactly that part of one, I have to be part of a wider, wider military group, possible military protection and that it provides and security and certainly it does cost something and I don't want to tell you about it, and I don't need to say that there's no need to understand that part of one, to be part of one of a global military force in some way of demand and that our party is really important, but let me think that this part of the fact be true, let me know that this part of the 20th part of the fact be true, And then in that sense, in that sense, I, as a member of this Parliament, could freely raise my hand and agree to this document in something modified and ratified. Everything else seems to me to be true that a little bit, let's just put it that way, actually we're having a discussion about a debate that doesn't exist, if we can't change anything then actually the thing is done, whether it's done by an emergency procedure or in one or two readings, then it's not so much, it's so important. And in the end, I also can't agree to actually agree to agree to what I see as an agent. And I'm saying here from Article 4 which, if well, if it is well interpreted that indeed, that the same status, that in the same status are both military, armed, force of the United States and the Republic of Croatia that... does not pay any fee for landing or parking in Croatian military bases, nor flight fee, air navigation, in fact, all of this leaves a little bit of an impression then, I'm not saying that there is a price that can be charged but I don't think that such big concessions are in the function of approaching the Republic, the military forces of the Republic of Croatia with these Euro-Atlantic integrations, but it seems to me that they are seeing us as one of the weaker partners to whom this may be offered, and that it will simply accept everything that is offered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I would really ask the minister, as the man I believe to be a serious man and who understands what this is all about, that all these remarks that were made and I think they were really in the best, in the best sense and that it would be possible to open that article of the 20th of this Memorandum, this chapter,... A memorandum in some way to open this process and that this particular remark that would sort of solve the issue of damage, you see here in one explanation you should, you know, Article 8. NATO SOFA, which he actually means, I know you know very well, so it probably doesn't even know most parliamentarians that we have this particular meat that we know very well what it's about, that some times we don't even knock on the open door. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, in that sense, if that's how it's done until the second reading, then you'll have my vote for this ratification, otherwise I really won't, I won't be able to do it if it stays like this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31070	Thank you. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic. That's the end word.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31071	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not repeat what I have been here several times, but Mr. Kramaric, obviously has not been in the Chamber of the Second Signatory, we have explained this, in the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, their own department of international justice, and given the US legislation, the other side is the Government of the United States, which, under its authority, represents the European Command of the American Forces for Europe. It's not a question of question, it's a signed, signed opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, in the introduction, I said that several strategic documents mention the achievement of a certain degree of interoperability and compatibility of our Armed Forces. It is our interest to reach this stage as soon as possible, and it is in our interest to carry out joint military exercises with members of the US Armed Forces as our strongest bilateral partner in the area of defense. We are not, we are not in their interest, and this is our interest, and that is why we have insisted on this to form this joint group for the implementation and preparation of these joint exercises so that just in time all of our needs to maintain joint military exercises in time signal to the partner country so that they, as part of their annual plans, plan resources and activities in joint military exercises. I repeat, all as a prerequisite, none of this memo will happen unless the Croatian Parliament approves a particular military exercise or joint military exercise. Something about remarks about the maintenance of military exercises on Croatia's influence as a tourist country and Croatian tourism. I'll remind you and look at last year's military training plan that you approved here, no military exercise has been in time from six months to ten months. So the tourist season and the time of the tourist season is set aside. And we haven't held any military exercises. We're keeping her on military polygons long ago. We did and ordered an environmental impact study for the military polygon Eugen Kvatrnik Slunj but did not order the result. The result is what experts who have been entrusted with the study have seen it. We therefore considered it our obligation to order that study, to see what was happening as a result of these military exercises, but in no way did we influence the results of that study. We are pleased that he is positive that the unwanted effects of maintaining military exercises on the eugen Quatrnik polygon in Slunj are within the limits allowed. Several times during the debate, two areas were mentioned, which were considered not sufficiently covered by the memorandum. It's a matter of criminal responsibility, and criminal responsibilities. And a matter of damages. Gentlemen and gentlemen, these two questions are detailed in Articles 7 and 8. NATO Safe. Croatia has joined a partnership for peace. The United States is a NATO member state. This agreement applies to us between these countries, and therefore also to the United States and Croatia, in the part of this issue regulated by this Memorandum. That question was arranged with NATO's Sof. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. NATO's PfP Sofa discusses the issue of responsibility and criminal responsibility, and the criminal and damages issue. The issue of environmental protection has been elaborated enough and we accept all these remarks in particular in this work that Mr. Vice President Arlovic was presenting. These are useful suggestions precisely for further upgrading of these relations through these additional agreements. The issue of small procedures is defined by the law on construction, those are procedures for which certain permits do not need to be issued. So if someone needs a military polygon, we're giving some space, some sort of object, so normally we're going to allow small bulkheads that aren't permanent character to adapt someone to their needs while practicing in the field of that polygon. It's all normal and it's all normal. This NATO PFP Sofa, which we have concluded and which became part of the internal law in 2002, regulates enough. This is just a desire to strengthen exercise activities, to achieve this degree of interoperability. We emphasized NATO ambition it creates certain benefits, but it also creates obligations. We can't hope that soon and very soon we'll become a NATO member country we can't become a member and then say, we're looking for some rest we need time to train our people, they have to be ready. They must have adopted standard operating procedures, and they must be involved in joint work both at headquarters and in operations in units. In this context, look also at the content of this memo we will normally read carefully once again the contents of this discussion and further upgrade all these constructive remarks in further agreements that we will have in further cooperation in the area regulated by this Memorandum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31072	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command of the United States of America which acts on behalf of the Government of the United States regarding the use of airspace, airport and maritime ports and training facilities by the US Armed Forces in Europe, first reading, P.Z. No. 193. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Acceptance, please, colleagues and colleagues. The Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Command is hereby adopted. All objections and proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please come in. We can vote. The result? I find that the conclusion was passed by 73 votes to six abstentions and 24 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31075	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to point out in the introduction of this decision on the establishment of an investigative committee in the first place whether there is a public interest or whether a particular question is really a matter of public interest, or whether it is a decision to establish an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by government officials is a question which is not in the context of public interest. Because we were aware of the fact that it was actually the basis or fulfillment of the legal precondition for the proposed decision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on investigative committees on issues of public interest shall in particular be regarded as achieving the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as set out in Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but also issues of public interest, therefore, also raise questions about fundamental rights and freedoms of man and citizen, especially the legality of the work of state bodies and public services as well as the legal persons of public law. And a total of questions regarding public morality. The fact that in the public is very often pointed out and points out that certain government officials or persons associated with them and are specifically represented by representatives in the Croatian Parliament, Mr Radimir Cacic and Zlatko Tomčić, who, during the previous term of the Croatian Parliament, acted as Minister of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, respectively, had or owned companies or partly owned companies and that these companies had just concluded numerous contracts with state bodies. Or legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia while these officials acted. It is doubtless the fact and the position of the applicant that it does so in itself for a valid reason and for establishing issues of public interest as well as for proposing the decision in question. Furthermore, when, in the context of the above, a law on the obligations and rights of civil servants that was in force until 2003, a whole series of other regulations and, in particular, the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, business practices, and it is irrefutable that public interest exist so that institutions of facts that would shed light on, therefore, the first ones which were those companies at the time of the conclusion of the contracts in question were owned or partly owned by state officials. Second, whether in public competition and contract conclusion procedures there were illegal or immoral actions, thirdly, the officials took advantage of their position and favoured those companies in the conclusion of the contract with the state authorities. Following this establishment and the definition of issues of public interest as a legal stand for the decision in question, the proposals were logically imposed on them by the aim of research and can be summed up into two wholes. The first is to identify all the facts relating to the conclusion of the contracts in question, so each specific legal transaction, where companies owned or partly owned by government officials appear in the realisation. The second whole represents the fact that the conclusion of a contract between those companies and state bodies protected the public interest. In particular, these procedures and the realization of a legal business venture were based on the principles of constitutionality, legality and public morality. There are very important issues to focus on and concerns the persons who concluded contracts with those companies on behalf of the state authorities as well as the answer to the question of who appointed the Expert Committee or the expert commission and their members under the Public Procurement Act as well as the answer to the question to whom the commission was responsible for its work. The million values of the legal transactions in question speak for themselves so that there is no above mentioned, above or above of the outstanding issues, it is doubtless that the public interest is also a methodology, so the way in which the state budget is used is directed towards the financial profits of private companies, i.e. companies owned by government officials. Following all of this and on behalf of the promoter of this decision, I propose that the Croatian Parliament make the decision as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31076	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Representatives' clubs. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31077	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will, of course, support the adoption of this Decision on the establishment of the Research Commission for the determination of facts regarding concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials, since the proposal for the establishment of this decision has also been signed by 25 representatives, members of our Club, it is clear that our Club will also support this decision. We don't have anything special and we don't have to add to the exposure that was given here by the promoter, a colleague of Tomljanovic. It is about contracts that have been sufficiently talked about in the public about issues that have been being carried out through and through the media and the fact itself that there is a public interest that all the circumstances of the conclusion of these contracts, the execution and execution of these transactions are to be enlightened and to those smallest details. I think that the motion for a proposal has been made very correctly, there are no charges, there are no predetermined verdicts, decisions are simply required to set up an investigative committee to investigate the situation regarding each contract in particular. And on the other hand, we think that such a decision is absolutely necessary to shed light on all the facts of the procedure in which it will be given the opportunity of the other party, of course, to present everything that is necessary to present. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31078	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31079	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. There was a debate a month or two ago on Minister Zuzul, today on Mr Cacic and Tomcic, the next day will probably be about another official and I think the hyperinflation of these investigative committees will eventually lead to the complete degradation of this Parliament. And then there's the question of who that's really about and why. However, what is probably more important is to sit down to discuss what is a conflict of interest, and secondly, as criminal and criminal liability should be proved necessary to prove for sure and this conflict of interest. This can only be determined by the commission and the Assembly can therefore agree or disagree. However, what is most important is that I ask all MPs in all cases that the criteria are the same. I'm really asking you to also agree how far we go. I also agree that this criminal or don't know political responsibility can't be the same. I don't know, there are some weird deadlines, here when it comes to political don't have to exist, it can go so far back that your crime can be, and you've read these articles like me, that you've always taken the most cookies as a child at a family table. Here is how it appeared in the Croatian public towards some people. And I'm saying, gentlemen, that's not how it's gonna work. Who is finally the one of us in this assembly that may cry out, may justice be done even if the world fails. He's just gone, he's gone between us, he's gone. Clearly, it would be equally opportunistic to defend, dispute, deny, or other friends. However, we are only men of blood and flesh so that all our hypocrisy will probably come best when it comes to the turn of one of our friends or God forbid when it comes to our turn. And so I'm going to say one more time, let's just specify the rules of conduct. What I probably said a month or two ago, on this day about a thousand or two thousand officials may come into conflict of interest. It may theoretically come from the President of the State to our ministers, from the representatives to the judges of constitutional courts, from the generals to the Rectors of our universities, from the mayor, the mayor, the mayor to the director of public enterprises, from the president's advisors to the assistant ministers, and then if we add up members of the municipal city councils, judges, state lawyers and connected persons, so it could be women, children, husbands, friends. In the end, we come to the fact that the whole of Croatia is networked or networked. So I'm going to say it with caution once again, because in the end, we're all going to come to the only objective criteria, and that's someone's procedure for it by the competent state body, for example. Some inspections, some financial police, some state's attorney or a court. I believe that this is best demonstrated at the end of the HNS gentlemen when they are at several of their press conferences, it does not matter now in which cases they claim that the government does not trust the Croatian judiciary. And indeed who we are here to question suddenly court decisions and why we should do so. And really if someone's been doing business, and I'm going to say, in the spirit of the law, is that one in conflict of interest? If, in any way, he's affected the job, then yes, if it's not clear he isn't. Shouldn't someone who has a company of their own, not matter, like Cacic, Mr. Tomcic, etc. working with the state. If he transferred his management rights to the third, if he didn't influence getting a job, if everything was in accordance with the law, and that's what someone else would say, not us, if everything was in line with good business practices, was that ultimately amoral? I don't think so. If in any way someone was reading the job to himself and to their own, it's problematic. But if it isn't what then? Should someone in this country who is crying out for every job be put out their own company? Should I say, on the street go I don't know, 100, 200, 300 or 500 workers? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now let's look around and see that our concept of conflict of interest that is often heard is simply at the level of the notion of Karl Marx and Friedrich English. If we add to that the moral political responsibility that has started talking about in the last few months, then we are where we were in 47 or before a thousand or 71. No one in this House will be more open for a period of 90 than I am to claim that it wasn't all black at the time. Everyone had a job, lived the way they lived, got apartments, couldn't speak freely, could move relatively freely on the other hand, etc. Let us see who are members of the government in some other countries. There are clearly political people who have never done anything like one Blair, but there are also famous people from the top of the business world like one I don't know Berlusconi. But what's most important, we simply have to regulate these relationships that everyone knows what they're getting into when they come into politics or I don't know where, and not as we do that the basic range of our commission has at some point become what they are and what they say to us, as they say, signs tell us what our astrological destiny is, so if they're prone to the stars, then we're not in conflict of interest, if we're not in conflict with each other, then we're in conflict of interest. I'm saying it just can't go on forever. Finally, who stands on the other side in the background of a whole series of our laws, decisions, etc. I claim large capital that through the other echelon or the third echelon in the ministries, because ministers can neither reach anything nor know everything, direct our lives. Maybe the best decision is to say this non-taxation and withdrawing profits. Finally, whether the conflict of interest when, say from Agrokora four years ago, the former government came suddenly to 10 people to the post of deputy ministers, ministerial assistants, bosses I don't know the customs services and so on. So I ask everyone once more to think about it and to regulate the rules of conduct once again. Let the same criteria apply to all of us. We want another question, shall we go further with these committees at all. All right, let's go if we want to, I'm in. Of course I won't end up avoiding my star either, but only in that game, gentlemen don't get killed while people think that there are no innocents in politics, and I'm saying, and we all know very well that there are those in politics, and really don't let that happen to the innocent. Noting that many are as cold as ice, without a shred of feeling when it comes to someone else's fate, that it can't hurt them until they're on the wallpaper, once again let's not just play with these things. I don't want what this report says. And finally, IDS, as in the Zuzul case, should be managed by the public court, but because of solidarity, we agree that you are all the same and we will not vote for this commission. It must be one thing, because of this commission, as the last time no one from the IDS will be on duty all night if they are to vote on it today. And for the end one more time. Many are in conflict of interest. I'll repeat what I said in the Zuzul case. If we apply different criteria not that we're going to divide because we're divided anyway, partyly, I don't know how, interestingly even, but we're going to divide this country. Everything's hard, it's hard to go after this speaker, it's hard to work outside of this House, it's even harder to do business and to secure wages to yourself, to its workers, and through the taxes of the army to us of 200 grand as far as we are on the budget. And the last time there was that second commission I said, IDS when these committees are in the process, it's against that Bible who is without sin to throw away the first stone, just as much as we won't be against any debate, which doesn't mean we won't be against the commission as we were and in the case of "Lance" it doesn't mean we have the right to live on the other, and we don't have precise rules of conduct. And we gentlemen don't have them when our committees and this conflict of interest law are, because this is what our Law of Conflict of Interest, which the former government didn't want, is actually more than nothing. I know I may be the last person to hold on to moral ancestors, but I won't be far from the truth if I say that such a divided Parliament can't judge anyone and leave it to the institutions. We simply have to leave it to the institutions, not to engage in it. I said once again, I.D.S. won't be involved in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31080	Thank you very much. HNS club PGS, respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31081	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office, and fellow Members, it is already a colleague on behalf of the promoter that there is a public interest in this case, so I assume that this is one of the reasons why we are discussing the proposal outside of television coverage because it is also a great public interest in this topic. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorje-Gorskin Alliance will support and support the proposal for the establishment of this commission and we will vote in favour of, in the hope and faith that within the scheduled time, they will finish their work and come with their report to the Parliament and I am firmly convinced that after 14 years of finally, approximately, spoken and charged and never processed, they will come into the situation that finally those whose business is to be examined will be in a position to prove that they are not guilty. And so far in those 14 years, it has not been by chance that they were given no doubt without the possibility of proving otherwise, because it is most effective. Charges, never convicts, and you're never innocent. The Commission of Investigation is also imagined when the Assembly passed the law, as an instrument or instrument of opposition to the supervision and control of institutions if it is suspected that something was not legal somewhere. What does it mean that colleagues from ruling coalitions or parties are using investigative committee instruments, which could mean or what I think it means? Either there is a mistrust against institutions that were to examine the same subjects, establish legality or illegality and process either a lack of evidence or a desire to continue political mud-trimming or without wanting to get full truth this time. This proposal of the investigative committee follows a statement by Prime Minister Sanader, which said that everyone should finally be told about it. I repeat everything. I think it was well said and that a large part of the Croatian public and citizens have supported that approach. Probably and therefore, that is precisely why everything was announced about everyone last time at the session of this Assembly on behalf of the HDZ Club and the investigative committees for me, a colleague of Radosa, Mrs Pusic, because indeed everything about everyone. The first one is, well, it's time for my colleague Cacic, then Tomcic. We suggested that the third be Mrs. Zuzul and Sanader. HDZ responded with a proposal by Lesar, Rados, Pusic. And we supported it and accepted that we would not object to such a proposal. So that's what we support. Therefore, because of the whole truth and truth, I do not understand why we were offered to give up our proposal for our research commission. Why did Mr. Sanader personally offer me a retreat or, to be precise, you withdraw your proposal, and then our proposal will be lost from the agenda. If it's all about everyone then there's no retreat, there's no deviation. Why were the signatures withdrawn from the proposal already made in the procedure? And I remind you, Mr. Sanader, Prime Minister Sanader last week, last week in this assembly, he said, saying he wasn't opposed to that investigation committee we proposed. I want to believe that he honestly meant it. I'm actually sure he meant it the same way. As you know, colleagues and colleagues, we need that item back on the agenda for two signatures to be missing. I ask you not to have to beg each individual like this from the pay phone, join two other signatures and let that commission be in the process and then we will act, what was said, on everything. Why have public statements or accusations suddenly come out that in Parliament, and this has been indirectly repeated today, the war is being waged on the investigative committees? When we formed the investigation committee for Victor Lenac, no one was bothered. When they were transcripts, they were talking about time and timing, about possible results. So the third mobile phone operator, everything was fine, there was no war, and when this point came to the agenda a few months ago there was no war on the committees, and this proposal didn't bother anyone, but the war on the committees started on the basis of, the moment the 5th proposal for an investigative commission came and we were all at war. How come it's only then? And why we're all concerned about the war now, that we'll never get out of it, and before that, we've enjoyed such a public atmosphere. And if everything, then I don't get it, believe me, what is it to Mr. Sanader, Prime Minister Sanader, when he was given the refusal to threaten new investigative committees against me personally and all of us? What was the meaning of the investigation committees and other measures and other institutions? Says a colleague, a public interest. Then why was it said that this proposal for this Commission of Investigation was due to the unbearable pressures that we allegedly caused by the motion for vote and trust of Minister Zuzul? And that's the answer to this about Minister Zuzula. Of course, when we talk about bids, about retreating, about withdrawing signatures and awkward conversations, of course I'm a faceless liar. Mr. Sanader didn't call me, nor did the offer come through the middleman and so twice. Mr. Sanader did not offer to withdraw and lose from the agenda, either personally or through the mediators and so on three times. And there were no mentions of new investigative committees and other measures and other institutions and against me personally and all of us. This proposal for an investigative commission that counterpart Matušić made last time is probably a mere coincidence that followed last week. I'm lying, the truth is reserved only for the Prime Minister and the Government. They can't really lie, but as Minister Hebrang says, he occasionally doesn't tell the truth, and here and there, as Minister Zuzul said, some laps happen. And finally, no dilemma. We will vote for this Commission of Investigation in the desire to complete its work within the deadline and that this topic and these people will never again be subject to political competitions in this way before election campaigns. About everyone because citizens have the right to know the truth about us, everything and everything, our behavior, our property, our way of getting and paying taxes. So once again I take the opportunity and I want to believe that you will accept my call that in the same way, especially if you believe and if you firmly believe that through the investigative committees in Parliament you can come to the truth to support us, to help us and to have that other commission on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31082	Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31083	I'm correcting Mr. Lesar's incorrect claim that the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader, told him to withdraw the proposal. Just a week ago, it was also written in the paper, he said, I quote: "The dirty part of the HDZ job this time played SDP, and by offering to withdraw the commission's proposal by withdrawing signatures and a flossule on war commissions." Well, let's see if it's true then.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31084	Club representatives of HSLS and DC, respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31085	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. In March 1996, the Croatian Parliament declared the Law on Investigation Commissions. I didn't follow, and I don't know how much of the day this Law on Investigation Commissions was passed, how many investigative committees were established, but judging by what's been going on since September last year, so to this day, it seems that the investigative committees have become one form of communication between us here in Parliament, or us from Parliament to the Croatian public. I'll look back on a few things here in my brief discussion. Or a few articles from this Law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on investigative committees states: "The investigative commission can establish a House of Representatives and earlier the County House of the Republic of Croatia's Parliament for every issue of public interest." Furthermore, "The issues of public interest are particularly considered to be the achievement of the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as set out in Article 3. The Constitution, fundamental freedoms and rights of man and citizen from Chapter III. The constitution, legality and work of state bodies, public services and legal persons, public law, and issues concerning public morality." In accordance with Article 3(3) of the basic Regulation, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. I read this on purpose to show that we are all actually thinking about whether there is an interest, a public interest, let's say, this is how we discuss things, issues that concern us. The fundamental question is who is it that this Law does not stand, who is who will determine whether something of public interest, say here in the Law says that it is the parliamentary representatives that should be at least 15 to 16. And their proposal opens this public debate and it is the Parliament that then, after the debate, determines whether or not voting is necessary to establish that commission. That's the formal way. But what do we get when we go into procedure? Is it enough that what is presented as an explanation for the formation of a commission, is that sufficient reason for us to discuss it without actually harming the general thing. So these are some basic questions that bother me, and I think you should torture all of us when we're discussing this this way. In Article 4 of the same law, the Commission of Investigation cannot be established on the issues on which the court proceedings have been initiated for so long as the proceedings are pending. The question is, why in many of the things that we put on the agenda here, why weren't they initiating the trial? Who should have and why didn't they initiate those procedures? Why did it have to come to the conclusion that we are discussing these issues in this way in the Croatian Parliament? On the agenda we have these sessions we have three requests for the establishment of the Committee, we would have a fourth, however, several colleagues withdrew their support for the writing they gave their signature, because they probably realized that in such a way they were being dragged into a war, they probably saw the dangers personally for themselves and for the public themselves. According to everything that has been done so far through committees, and we have so far seemed to me three formed committees, or two, third not yet, that is the Commission for Lenac, the commission has been offered for the Zuzul case, however, has not passed here in Parliament and the third seems to me for transcripts yet we have not voted on. However, I say, according to all of this, there is the impression that this is one tide of establishing investigative committees that this is one continuation of a special political war against our rivals and that we may not always be inclined to find out really full and real. It seems to me often this way of arguing that often the biggest victim is the Croatian public. Because why is she the victim? The victim is because they don't choose words. Let's say I remember the debate here about Zuzul, so that sort of discussion is not decent even at some lower level in some inn, let alone in the Croatian Parliament. Because many words have come out here behind which there is no credible data and when it comes out, it's hard to pick it up. There were disqualifications and various insinuations, etc. Because how does the people reason? Everything debated in the Croatian Parliament, the people think it's so significant when it comes to the Parliament's agenda. And yet, there are far more important things that we should discuss here. And make clear the appropriate decisions, regulations, etc. Warning the establishment of committees is actually a kind of recognition that we don't have enough rule of law, that we don't function in the institutions of state and government. I am going back to Article 4. Why then someone did not initiate proceedings, judicial proceedings to determine the responsibility of the persons concerned for the actions to be attributed to them. I wonder if this is a small door one back to the old one to join the legislative and executive authorities? Because let's say, if she didn't get to do something or she didn't want to do a legal state through the government institutions in this way, we open up the possibility of doing it, that we do it here in the Parliament to form a commission from the parliamentary representatives and that this commission is actually a kind of working body of the executive authority. I remind you all that we are invited here for good, for the good of all our citizens, and if this is a good thing that we are doing here right now, we leave it to the public only, we leave it to each of us per person. I would invite all of us here in the Croatian Parliament to make one decision, to agree on a moratorium to set up committees. Although we have the right under the law, because in this House, we share this way of debate, we have difficult tasks to deal with, we need a consensus, we are waiting for negotiations, the preparation of the entire society to join the European Union, we are waiting for the resolution of our citizens' troubles, I will remind in the Voice of the Council that a text has recently come out, where we are talking about our citizens' poverty, 34% of our citizens are poor, 40% of these respondents are in charge of not coming into the category of the poor. It's all the task of finding a way out of such a situation to help our citizens. I would a little take my end in a way, to leave every Croatian thief found to be a thief to the Croatian authorities and courts. For whoever steals his people, let him be judged by the Croatian People's Court. According to the regulations of this high house, not to be tried in this high house. And I'm going to call again on one of Jesus' sayings when he told Peter "Peter's sword in the cover," because "whoso the sword is soaring from the sword to the dead." I'm going to paraphrases, who's looking for a commission can expect a commission to shake him around a corner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31086	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ante Markov on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31087	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Forming an investigative committee is a very serious job, it's a demanding job, it's a responsible job, it's simply based on the law. And the law and law enforcement, the debate on the law is exactly the role of Parliament. Parliamentary democracy as the most sensitive form of democracy, the most direct form of democracy is precisely its starting point in representatives of the people, who are in the home discussing everything, including such important and serious issues as the Research Commission. And we at the HSS Club will absolutely support the establishment of this and all those investigative committees that can be provided under the law, and I believe that everything can be ensured because I believe that by the basis of this law our role and our mission is equal. And that is precisely to mark the truth and the role that parliamentary democracy plays in our Constitution to do so. You know, if you have a yacht rider on a good horse, the result is bad, no matter what horses are best and trained and everything, but the rider is barren, you know. There are clearly other examples of indignation, but I'm only going to do this one about the horse. That's the way it is with our institutions that we put into laws, regulations, and then we call these institutions barren, nothing. Everywhere in the world they function, everywhere in the world the state shakes when one investigative committee is formed, gentlemen. The most important crises, the most important challenges and the biggest downfalls in the largest and most powerful country are caused by the earthquake of the investigative commission. One such investigative committee debated and now about Iraq, very long, very bitter, direct transmission on television, the goal not to accuse each other and not the rival partner, the political rival to lead to the position of rackets, blackmail or anything else but to strengthen his country with truth. It is the task of what is written in the Law on Investigation Commissions, the task of each investigation committee. The thesis on how hyperinflation of the commission is proof that this law and commission don't work is a genius thesis. The thing is, they don't work because there's a lot of them. It can't be the thesis. It can't be the antithesis. It's our job to keep the commissions working. Why hasn't she worked in these last ten years? Why? Well, that's not why the law on investigating committees is because the law is similar to those laws that apply other parliamentary democracies and simply because this is an investigative commission and these investigative committees are working our way and our way is let's go to the form and we don't care about anyone anyway. Let's get one of them covered and hope they don't do it to us. It's just not good. It can't be a good message, let's stop investigating committees, and then we'll all be calm together, then we'll all be satisfied, there'll be no one to throw ourselves at. Well, that way we can think of giving up on something else but we're not here to give up. We are here to apply what it says or if this law is not worth it, and we have that opportunity to say the investigative commission, his law on it since we have got a new institution that we have now formed about the investigation, which will talk about preventing conflict of interest he will replace it then we do not need an investigative commission. Of course, it's possible, but that and those two things aren't the same thing, of course, for those who understand that. It's not the same thing. They talk about different directions of action and different directions of responsibility that this Parliament has. Of course, some other more serious parliaments deal with very serious national, social and economic norms in assessing and creating investigative commissions. We have the right to our model and our model has no need to stop it rather than effectively set it up. We have all the elements that this and all the investigative committees that have formed and that will form are effective and efficiency is guaranteed only by us. If we lack any instrument for the investigation committees to be effective precisely because of our credibility, imagine that before the beginning of 96, the public would have that three, four investigative committees had ended with an accurate assessment of the situation, if it had been established that and whether or not it had happened and that all the elements had been subtly subsided, and that it was publicly transmitted what kind of public pulse would have been in such an assessment of the situation without now entering into the details of who it was. You'd be positive. They would say this parliament is seriously working, he wants to show his credibility regardless of the people sitting in it. But no. We don't do that. We're just trying to hit on each other and we're just trying to create through a number of possibilities of inefficiency. In a way, we want efficiency to be destroyed so that some way of recruiting each other can be achieved if they can be targets at all. I don't think I can be the target. The only goal can be to discuss truth, debate on public interest, debate on public morality and debate on facts. I'm not going to talk here today about facts and metrics because this isn't really a debate. This is a debate on whether or not we will form an investigative committee. I repeat once again, the HSS Club will support this investigative committee, all the investigative committees, but will also make a proposal on how and under what conditions investigative committees can also guarantee the effectiveness of the debate and effectiveness of the implementation of the objective function. This proposal will be addressed by the HSS Club and I hope you will all support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31088	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31089	A colleague Markov said, I quote, all over the world, there are shaking states when investigative commissions are set up, it's a very serious job, finished quote. Mr. Markov, that is not true or at least not true while you were in power, your party with your coalition partners. To remind you, at that time, an investigative committee for the wheat affair was established, the then president of the Croatian Parliament, otherwise your party leader, for three years, has obstructed the work of the commission with various obstructions and business tricks, and it was a crime that was not remembered in Croatia from 90th to today. I personally asked 16 times when this investigative commission would work, and it didn't work until today because the coalition leaders were involved in crime as I just said in the Croatian state from 90th to today. And that's why it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31090	SDP club respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31091	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! The Parliament has recently been flooded with proposals for the establishment of different investigative committees. This proposal is only one in a row. The investigative committees generally serve to strengthen the control role of the Assembly over the executive power, so it is somewhat logical that its establishment proposes opposition, but here it is now the second time in a row to establish an investigative commission coming from the parliamentary majority. What's suspicious about that? It is doubtful that the parliamentary majority supports the current government and the current government has at its disposal a whole series of other more efficient instruments to investigate any illegal action by anyone, so it does not need any parliamentary commission to do so. But when he does suggest his founding, then it makes sense to ask himself why. Obviously for political purposes, to use the debate on the establishment of a commission only to raise doubts about the illegal behaviour of one of the political opponents. That is, we are convinced in the SDP Club, the only reason and the only motive to propose the establishment of this investigation committee. Furthermore, the name of the committee is in full compliance with the objective set out in the proposal for a decision. The Commission, in its name, has one scope and, in those objectives, the other one has a significant narrowness. If the commission should determine the facts regarding the concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials, then we wonder why only two officials, Radmir Cacic and Zlatko Tomcic, should be questioned in matters to which the investigation committee should be examined. The official has more and some of them from the current government could become subject to the interest of this commission if the intention of its establishment was politically clean. For example, the foreign minister in the resignation of Mr. Miomir Zuzul, who was an official and at a time when he bought some stocking factory from his modest salary to the Faculty of Philosophy at the time of his first privatisation and then sold those socks to the state, specifically to the Croatian military at the time when the defence minister was the late Gojko Šušak. How HDZ lost power in 2000. Zuzul's factory went bankrupt. The highest official in the country was also the late President Tudjman whose daughter opened a private job in the area of the MORH in Zvonimir Street in Zagreb, which recently, as well as the notoriously unauthorized guilt that she used her influence and for a certain commission, enabled her business partner who later applied for bribes. The lady was unlawfully released for procedural reasons and her partner in the business got two years probation, so after such a verdict, the town was circled by the jump that a man must not report anyone for taking bribes for the next two years. He's an official, and he's a doctor. Andrija Hebrang, who, as minister, determines which hospital will receive enough funding from the state budget to obtain radiological equipment and, at the beginning of the term of office, was involved in advertising a private clinic that is miraculously performing a radiological search. Patients on the one hand can't get in line for a radiological search at state hospitals because the equipment isn't enough, or it's out of date or it's broken down and the minister doesn't approve of the money for its renovation. On the other hand, the same search can be done at a private clinic that the minister advertises by his name. Those officials for whom facts should be established in connection with the concluded contracts between the state authorities and the company owned or partly owned by officials are therefore clearly more. And this commission would be able to examine those cases if it was to be established. But no, the Proposer does not think of extending the scope of this committee because then he would not succeed in his basic intention to disqualify the two officials politically. It is clear and understandable that both the HNS and the HSS are in favour of establishing this Committee, it is ultimately about their officials and they want to take down the mark that has been thrown at them. And they expect this investigative commission to do just that, take it off. But they forget that those who have proposed the establishment of this commission are likely to have a majority in this commission. And that the conclusions of this committee will be most expected. So, this commission, apart from being motivated by political reasons, is also an inaccessible constraint, but it suffers from another flaw, it is essentially completely unnecessary. It is completely unnecessary because of the fact that each other's commission was established, a permanent parliamentary commission to prevent conflicts of interest. The only thing is, it didn't have a very good destiny. There was no good fate because at the beginning the parliamentary majority did not want to agree that Mr Tadic was involved in his work, and then it was chosen in one piece of junk, so it could not begin to work, so no one actually believed you in such a commission and it could not fulfill its legal task. That is why we have pointed out countless times that it has been established more to conceal and less to detect conflicts of interest. We can't even get the impression that the parliamentary majority has been working all this time to make sure that the commission doesn't live for two more reasons. The first is that it would have to examine the unfavourable affairs of the majority party officials and the second is also quite transparent. If there is and acts by the Commission and the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, then it cannot be proposed at any moment to establish individual athok committees for this or that official, for one or that case, but, if necessary, to present political disqualification. But fortunately, the birthing pangs of a permanent parliamentary commission to prevent conflicts of interest finally came to an end. It is complete, can work in full composition, so it should examine the doubts which are cited as reasons for the establishment of this particular commission but also any other doubts related to any official. It is unclear why this commission is not working yet, it has no president yet, because the president has yet to be elected from the committee's ranks. This is certainly what members of the committee themselves do at their first session. But the first session needs to be called in. The president's not here because he hasn't been elected yet. Who invites the right committee session? The first session of that old committee was called by the President of the Parliament, and we wonder why the President of the Parliament has not done so yet with this new commission? Why is this commission not called up so that we can elect a president and how could it begin? Because if it had started to work, if it had been called for the first session then you would have seen in full light all the senselessness and this proposal. To be clear, the SDP Club is not opposed to an examination of a possible conflict of interest for any official but rather the opposite. It is held that everyone’s position is being examined and that the permanent parliamentary commission is being examined by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests by all disputed situations and brought by a lawyer on everyone. It is in the interest of the SDP and all SDP officials. However, the SDP Club thinks that this purpose will not be achieved if we now establish a special commission for each official. If this continues, we will soon find ourselves in a strange situation so that we will no longer have any officials to deal with an investigative commission. I will be unaware of the commission to deal with Mr. Bebić, Mr. Bebić in the commission to deal with Mr. Raven, Mr. Raven in the commission to deal with Mr. Seks so infinitely. The thing's already come up anyway... We'll do nothing else here but deal with the commissions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because of all this, because of everything that we have put out here, the SDP Representatives Club is proposing to a group of HDZ deputies who have proposed the establishment of this commission to withdraw its proposal as excessive, unnecessary. And President-in-Office of the Parliament, we call on the first session to call on the committee to prevent conflicts of interest so that it can finally start to work and deal with these cases and all other cases, issues of conflict of interest for each official. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31092	Thank you very much. I called that first commission because there was no legal act that would regulate the calling. And now, if I am not mistaken, there is a Rules of Procedure or a Rules of Procedure on the work of the commission to which the committee calls the age-oldest member, and that is Mr Nikola Mak. I think Mr. Kapraljevic will confirm that, too, so I no longer have that role to play in constituting the session. But well, we have a correction of two incorrect allegations, first respected representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31093	In fact, a respected colleague, Stazic, claimed that only the investigative committees should establish an opposition because the government has mechanisms to do and get the right information. I say that this government respects the trio of the authorities, so it can't put pressure on the judiciary, but apparently some former governments have done so because if they hadn't done so they wouldn't have committed crimes in this particular case ended in old times.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31094	Representative Antun Kavrljevic rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31095	I would only correct one two three times what my colleague Stazic said, and he said it was a permanent parliamentary commission. This is not a permanent parliamentary commission, the commission to decide conflicts of interest is an independent commission. And it has nothing to do with the Parliament. It's first and foremost. I know a lot of people want to put him under the Parliament because there's no independence. But it's an independent commission. And that's why I'd like it to start working that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31096	Thank you. Proposer, respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31097	Thank you, Mr. President, on behalf of the motionary, I felt the need to perhaps try to clarify two things. It is often also here in the Parliament, and even more often in public, it is pointed out that the investigation committees are literally speaking weapons in the hands of the opposition or in general as one means of investigating the truth, eventually establishing responsibility, so it is mostly meant by the parties that are in the minority in the Croatian Parliament. Because it actually serves them to articulate some of their interests. However, the normative situation is quite different, and this provision of Article 5 of this law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, the law on investigating committees. Both clear and precise, therefore, the establishment of an investigative committee can be proposed under one working body of the Assembly or at least one tenth of the total number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I am not prepared to accept those qualifications, but when something is estimated to be in the public interest and in accordance with the law, it is proposed to set up an investigative committee, so the Croatian Parliament makes a decision in the first place whether to establish such a commission or not. And the other intervention on behalf of the promoter is and I think that it should be highlighted and that is two concepts that are legally different. So, public interest in the public interest. The public interest can be something else entirely. And the public interest in the application of this law is a constitutional and legal category. Is something of interest to the public it may be the result of a football game and whether something is in the public interest when this law is applied then it is precisely worked out by both the constitution and the law it mentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31098	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31099	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP club supports this as well as any investigative committee because as well as the Croatian people in such and similar situations, we are interested in the full truth. In our court, investigative committees can play a useful role, which is either to clear someone or to find something illegal to pass on. There were several commissions of the territorial defense committee, for the Evening List, then proposed and never voted the investigative commission and the wheat affair, Victor Lenac which is still going on and on. I don't know why it didn't go to the end in some committees, because by now or as I said, it would have been a lie with those people or they wouldn't have put us all in the same basket. I've been meaning to know that this is my first term and that I've been overjoyed and it's been an honor to come to this high house. But where you go, you're all the same, you're all thieves, so I don't want to be placed in the same basket. And I don't think most of us do either. Well, either let the investigative committee or let him condemn or let him set free. But let something be done because this isn't how it's done anymore. And we support it because this commission is because we want the truth and only the truth, but let it not serve some interparty, political calculation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31100	Thank you very much. The club debate is over, we're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Bozica Šolić. He's giving up. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikola Sopcic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Mato Stimac. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31101	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In my presentation, I will not talk about the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, because we all know it more or less and we know in the end and where we will find the law and read it. I'll just point out that officials are not allowed to use public duty as a personal breakthrough or a breach of a person who is connected to an official. It is well known to the general public that Mr. Čačić has either full or partly owned company Koning engineering d.d., Kongama, d.d., Koneko d.o.o., Urbanist Institute of the City of Zagreb D.o.o. Mr. Tomcic also connects with ownership at Capital Ing. D.o.o. It is unequivocally public interest to establish that these companies were owned or partly owned by these state officials at the time of the conclusion of the contract with state authorities and legal entities. And the officials used their position and favored those companies in the process of concluding a contract with the state authorities. The investigation committee should determine whether the public interest was protected in the conclusion of the contract between those companies and the state authorities, and whether those proceedings were based on the principles of legality and public morality. I will only briefly refer to the total amounts paid by the listed companies by the state authorities in the period 2000 to 2003. So the proposaler's report, from the documentation of the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, is said to be based on the programme on the state-encouraged housing of Koning Engineering d.d., Kongama d.d. and the Zagreb City Urbanist Institute concluded a contract worth 180 million 584 thousand 354 kuna. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations with Kong and Koning Engineering and Conning concluded contracts worth a total of 53 million 835 thousand and some small kuna. The Ministry of Public Works of Reconstruction of Construction during the same period for the construction of apartments for Croatian military disabled persons with Congolese company completed total contracts on 73 million 455 thousand 898 kuna. Croatian waters Zagreb concluded in contract with the company Koneko d.o.o. Varazdin on the construction of the sewerage system of the town of Sinja, a wastewater treatment plant of the town of Sinja and Trilja, amounting to 9 million 336 thousand 245 kuna. Croatian highways concluded with the companies Konga Koning engineering for the implementation of an idea main implementation project for the establishment of local and construction permits for reconstruction of the pump station Okucani on the Zagreb Lipovac highway worth 196,000. The Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction concluded contracts with the Capital ing during the same period. D.o.o. worth 3 million 467 thousand 168 kuna. Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction and the company Capital ing. For the design and control of apartments for Croatian military disabled and war-damaged facilities, contracts worth 3 million 340 thousand 872 kuna were concluded. The Ministry of Public Works and Reconstruction in Construction in the process of concluding a contract for social incentive housing programmes after the invitation to a limited procurement procedure at the locations of Spain, Oranica in Zagreb and Sopnica, Jelkovec in Sesvetje chose 50 qualified competitors among them "Koning engineering" d.d. Varazdin and Capital ing d.o.o., etc. Let the Commission determine whether the contracts are concluded in accordance with law and public morality. For the sake of the Croatian public, I will express in more detail how former Minister Radimir Cacic used public duty for personal breakthrough and private interest which made decisions on the construction of capital facilities in my Zadar County, for other counties I do not know, but I am sure that similar practice was also in others, which is evident by millions of kunas charged by state bodies. So one morning, at the astonishment of all the citizens of the settlement Preko on the island of Ugljan, construction machinery began to buzz. Everyone wondered in wonder what was going on and on the street found out that water and sewerage were being built in Preko and in other smaller places around Preka to build a treatment device with a submarine discharge. They wondered why they deserved it, so they didn't do it. Radimir Cacic decided because he bought a hotel in Preko and Preko has no sewers. So, tens of millions of kunas to taxpayers are invested in building objects for which there was no idea solution, let alone a local and construction permit, not to mention making an environmental impact study or a priority programme at the end of Zadar County. So you can do anything when you want and when it comes to personal interests. During the construction process, technical documentation was quickly carried out, which is certainly a unique example of illegal construction in the history of building capital facilities and infrastructure. Mr. Cacic also has a hotel in Pag and you can guess, and during the term of office of former Minister Cacic, a sewer with a treatment and sub-sea discharge device was built and the works on the device and undersea discharge were performed by the company Kon Eco, a company from the Koning Group. In Povljana na Pag, Mr. Cacic builds his tourist complex and, of course, he immediately builds a sewer with a treatment device and a submarine discharge. However, to make things even better, the sewerage is not built for the whole place, but for the part of the place where its facility is located. And look at the wonders and that device, the submarine drop and the pumping stations, they don't do anybody else but the Con Eco. In Kukljica, on the island of Ugljan, Mr. Cacic buys a tourist accommodation in Zelena Punta and guess you build a sewer with a purification device. A comment you will agree on many of you, whether this is a conflict of interest, about opting for your own interest in demeaning plans and priorities of a county for your own interests is not all necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31102	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31103	Ma, Mrs. Brnadić was an employee of Croatian Waters before she was elected to the Croatian Parliament and she should at least know something from what she listed, which is that the sewerage of the town of Sinja, and Mr. Bitunjac also knows that was agreed before 2000, so Cacic was not even a minister, he was then a manager, he was, I think, a parliamentary representative, again he was in conflict of interest because he was not allowed to get a job. By the way, I have to say what she just said. I took this as a compliment to Chacic. So imagine how much she listed Cacic's ministry or Croatian water, and she didn't even list a dozen of what was done. So, this is commendable, I just, I doubt the data given that she presented one false piece of information that I know is guilty. You're the one who can confirm that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31104	Replica. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31105	I'd just like to replicate to a colleague in the area where she mentioned surveillance of building facilities for the victims of the Homeland War. I would mention that the capital ing company received jobs based on a contract signed at the time of the previous government, so before 3 January 2000, all these contracts were then signed for supervision of these facilities. So, they haven't been in the last four years of our term.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31106	Thank you. Reply to the replica of the respected representative Ivana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's my apology if I gave any information, and if there's anything in all of this, in all of my allegations that there may have been something wrong with the timing, I'm just glad I wasn't corrected in everything else, in all the other data that I've provided. And it's commendable for Mr. Cacic to have built so much, he's not set up to be a minister to build anything, but to build according to the county's priorities. So I come from the island of Vir where there are 40,000 inhabitants in summer, so we still don't have water because there's nothing Mr. Cacic bought there. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31108	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. [[Intruder: She gave up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31109	Even though it's obsolete... the issue of privatisation procedures obviously in the conflict of interest or even crime-based actions does not stop the moral and political responsibility of officials who are often the main actors in those actions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The investigation committee is not founded to deal with stories from ancient times, but it is necessary that new events be listed and old to prove the continuity of problematic actions. It is true that at the time of socialism, the Conning firm was a test-drive for, a showy polygon for dignitaries from non-classified countries to prove that we are an atypical communist country. It's also true that they're so-called. Red managers in the '80s at the time of the biggest inflation were easily granted large loans without foreign exchange clauses that were equal to a gift at the time, so they were ready to welcome privatisation. "Conning" according to the extensive writings of the daily papers prior to privatisation borrowed "Lana" 9 million marks, all the papers spoke and wrote, which did not enter the privatisation mass and the return occurred after privatisation. Money has been collected to buy smaller construction companies and many new start-ups have kept the prefix Koning or horse or something. During the difficult times for Croatia, there is a retirement home in Dubrovnik, the Technical School Centre in Zadar, unexplored and partially charged jobs. The Koninga affairs in Israel must have significantly reduced Croatia's ratings in this very interesting country for us and closed the doors for interested entrepreneurs. For the 2000 award, the director and owner of the "Conninga" Radomir Cacic becomes minister. His ministry assigns jobs to ministers and women-owned enterprises worth 180 million kuna. It is rare that the ministry of Mr. Cacic's practice is that his companies are making tender documentation for the ministry, so winning the competitions is guaranteed, which we can ask the companies that compete what it means. The third famous POS apartments and the construction of defenders' apartments again directed by the same ministry, and the disastrous quality not only of Rab but also of the others writes all the daily press. It is easy to suspect quite a malversion of building with worse and cheaper materials, so the question arises where did the difference end. Cacic's ministry immediately prior to the elections and the fall of his government contracts the construction of several thousand PO apartments without location, construction license, without technical documentation and without secured land. As an accidently significant part of the business, companies in his and his family’s possessions are acquired. In the larger number, there was no statute of limitations, and the state’s attorneys are given the opportunity to finally start doing the right things. The morality of the former president of the Croatian Parliament is questionable when he tried by law to cover co-ownership in the construction control company in order to mask the previous conflict of interest. His statement was amazing that he didn't even notice that he had more than 200 thousand kuna from the co-ownership company "Capital ing" that ordinary mortals don't actually notice. And during his term as head of the capital ring firm, he gets from Mr. Cacic's ministry, a 3.5 million-dollar job. So, the Cacics' families are building... apartments, and Mr. Tomcic's company is watching, the quality is described earlier. Specially interesting was paid to stimulate the Italian firm for the construction of the Mala Kapel tunnel. Absolutely unnecessary for deadlines, but that's taxpayers' money, and maybe the Italians were generous too. If those actions were done by all those who needed to, setting up an investigative commission would be absolutely unnecessary, and this is our obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31110	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31111	Thank you. Since the whole text is one faceless lie and a pamphlet, I'll start with the first sentences. Mr. Cacic was never mentioned here as a socialist manager, but he was a man who himself formed a company he had run for 30 years and something more and no loans unlike a whole series of others, and some of them were in a prominent party from which the representative who spoke, not a few of them, got no credit and never paid anything out of those loans for any conversion and privatisation that this is about. He didn't even deal in pornography, he did serious engineering. For this, 90th would be named together with two other colleagues the most successful manager in Croatia from 45th to 90th. As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31112	As far as I'm concerned, we'll do it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31113	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31114	As for the other one, we'll do it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31115	Well, fine, but let me just finish my sentence. As for conversion and privatisation...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31116	No, no. We have to get this light later. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31117	And what you're going to do, to the amount of lies I have to answer... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31118	No, but time is limited, you know. That's when the time comes, then you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31119	We will. No problem. In the next...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31120	Yeah. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know if he got confused, but he got confused, did he mix me up with someone. My colleague Markovanovic, I never told anyone about my ignorance that it was 200 thousand kuna. It's fiction. Unscrupulous fiction and lies. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31122	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek, correction of the incorrect allegations. And please give it to your colleagues, they only have one plate, it's not fair and fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Markovovic's incorrect claim that Mr. Tomcic tried to influence the law to limit ownership to 20%, I suppose. It's simply incorrect, because if he wanted to, he couldn't. He was just the president of this House like you, and the decisions on what the law would look like were made by this Parliament. So that's a completely incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31124	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31125	I'd like to replicate my colleagues. It seems to me that he had either the wrong information or that someone was filling it with the wrong data, but she'd like to tell him next. As for facilities for the victims of the Homeland War, these facilities were agreed at the time of the HDZ government when the ministry was led by Mr Jure Radic. The supervision of these facilities was also agreed at the time. Those facilities, all the facilities to the last ones I found in the building when I came to the assistant minister's post, were without a building permit and without a valid permit. So I'm talking about inherited facilities from the Home War victims' program. As far as POS facilities are concerned, all the facilities that were built in the encouraged housing programme were on a public tender, a full transparent public tender was carried out both in the design segment and in the construction segment, and so on in the surveillance segment. For each facility, a public tender for supervision has been launched. The company "Capital ing" received these jobs for the reason that it proved itself to be a quality company and what business it is doing well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31126	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31127	Well, I just wanted to say that my entire presentation is a review of the writing of the Croatian press. It's amazing how sensitive you are when it comes to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31128	Thank you. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31129	Dear Mr. President, as the signator of this motion for a decision on the investigative committee and listening to the debate so far, I think we've guessed, I wouldn't want to offend anyone here either Mr. Cacic or Tomcic, I think this can only help them out of this House once and for all. I wouldn't... Mr. Cacic and all, and Mr. Tomcic, but I don't think they're guilty because they haven't been proven guilty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, all of them are reflected on the rest of our parliamentary representatives, and I think we should have this commission live and set one date until the time limit for all of this to be tested, to establish a commission and say in a month, in 45 days, they are not guilty, we can continue to burden them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31130	Thank you. Replica, Honored Representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31131	Of course, some things will certainly be cleared up through the work of this committee, but some of them are also notable today, for example, this faceless lie of conversion not only did nothing unlawfully done by the shareholders Coning and me personally, but rather, it was done against the law of the HDZ executive authority who illegally kidnapped the company in order to sue the Croatian state for this crime during the HDZ still Government and returned the destroyed company with damage to 71 million DEM shareholders, and now these shareholders are suing the Croatian state for that damage. So the crime was committed by HDZ as proven. The lunches that were brought out by the Privatisation Fund's director and regional and state-owned at my expense, I sued for three years after the HDZ won the dispute, immunity was covered by a representative who was the head of the fund, but the director of the region was convicted for a year in prison and civil to the harm of the slanders of those who were pronounced by the representative we had just heard. If you are indeed in favour of having a variety of doubts both greater and larger, and even for the serious crime that has taken place in public and in writing were present for example for Mr Sanader as Prime Minister, to be removed from this House of Executive Authorities, sign a request for an investigative commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31132	Thank you. Replica reply, respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31133	So I don't know if the replica went to my exhibit, because I haven't mentioned the Prime Minister in one word... No, but he used the bat to replicate some things I wasn't talking about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So now I would repeat and answer that Mr. Cacic and Tomcic are not guilty until proven guilty, it is my fault that whoever allowed him to do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31134	Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31135	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In this climate of establishing investigative committees, it can be said that it is a real war of commissions and now it is best to express that Churchill's wisdom "when you don't want to solve the problem of the founding commission" or in our case "if you don't believe in the functioning of state institutions or the work of the judiciary establish a commission". This certainly is not good for policy credibility, but certainly when the situation leads to absurdity, it doesn't necessarily mean everything necessarily negative when it comes to politics. It may come out of the question whether our laws are bad, which is why we in the House are either responsible or not to enforce the law, and then it raises many other questions. So I think the establishment of this particular commission is very important that the public has as much insight as possible and what is happening in our young society. In particular, there is a wide range of controversial business moves when it comes to the former minister of reconstruction and development. Common mortals are rightly asked, if it is to trust the press and the answers to parliamentary questions from the justice minister, how it is possible to do all this in a regulated rule of law and to remain untouchable, or unpunished. There is, in fact, everything from crime that can be obtained up to 8 years in prison, through moral doubts to a classic conflict of interest. So let's take it in a row. I have no intention or ability to count everything he does and where he has all the stakes, from construction through hotels, insurance, etc. The irrefutable fact is that he had a Coning company and that he earned the first large money in democratic Croatia by building a technical school centre in Zadar and the House of Pensioners in Dubrovnik. The money was taken, the facilities weren't finished today. In Dubrovnik, he ended up in court, only according to the Minister of Justice's response to the prison's response could the court's statutes and miracles have saved him, that's what happened. The question arises whether he took advantage of his high position as minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus influenced the work of the court. Isn't Croatia so high on the scale of the world's most corrupt countries? This certainly could not have happened in organized societies that we want to enter. If from the experience of rich people we know that the hardest thing to do is make the first million dollars, then at least we know when a respected colleague started to get rich. What particularly irritates the public is the apartments of the POS. I have to admit anywhere, or it's hard to find a similar example in the world, convince a government where you're a minister and legalize encouraging housing, ask local self-government units to search for free locations, and sometimes, infrastructure and call them if they don't agree to it. People were really happy because they'd finally solve the roof over their heads and pay off the state for 20, 30 years. The minister built apartments almost at market prices...... Yes, yes, his companies or business partners received jobs at the competition. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The ministry fully financed the construction and payment of contractors for the works carried out, and the state will return the funds for the next 20, 30 years. There's nothing, wise. You can imagine what would have happened if he had passed a project at the government building 100 marinas on the Adriatic coast. What do you think companies would do, and that they would devastate the coast, concreteize, who cares about it in the cruel pursuit of profit and capitalism promoted by the gentleman in question? If there's no conflict of interest in all of this, then the law is nothing, the law is wrong. He needs to be changed immediately and put into the parliamentary procedure. Even a commission won't help us if we have a bad law. If all this is true, and I would like to be denied if not, if the minister has unscrupulously used the weaknesses of the law, it opens up moral doubts for which he will never answer. But the public, the Croatian people need to know what kind of person they're dealing with, so maybe this war of commission isn't so bad for the country. We are you, colleagues and colleagues, who should constantly change the opinion that prevails in this country. That everything has its own price, even justice, and that it corresponds before the law, and that only petty thieves end up behind the lock, while large beasts are not touched. That's why I'm here to establish this commission, to finally, finally, to finally and firmly strengthen and begin to strengthen and build a legal state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31136	Thank you. Replica, Honored Representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31137	Thank you very much. Short, as I said earlier, no connection between the Dubrovnik and Zadar facilities you were talking about had anything to do with my person because at the time Mr. Miroslav Hreljac, the mayor of the HDZ-Ivar County was the director of these companies and did not build them. He's bound to build them, and now he's under criminal procedure. Unlike me, of course, whom no one in any way has ever accused in that way, to clear that up. And as for these other data, I'm glad, of course, if we're talking about the first million you mentioned here, a long time ago, I've been running millions of jobs, and I'd like you to sign this commission of Sanader – Zuul to determine when and how that first million was acquired. Thank you. ... So you're gonna sign it, too, right? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If I understand correctly. You care about the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31138	Thank you very much. Is that a flashing tile, a replica, the answer to the replica I saw?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31139	So I think it's too high, if the Minister of Justice in this House's name and name on the parliamentary question says that in Dubrovnik, Minister Cacic was tried in court, and he claims he had nothing to do with Dubrovnik and Zadar. Unfortunately, they did not endure in Zadar, and they were self - contributions. So, it's not you, it's just the first million dollars ever made in that country. You had companies, you lived well, but you didn't even have 30,000 marks on your account. The first money is here with unfinished business and Croatian people need to know. Who was their minister and how they would behave in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31140	Another replica, the respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31141	I have to replicate to Mr. Rebić and agree with them that this commission is not for the sake of truth but for the sake of politics because that is what he said in the introduction, to conclude that he hopes that the truth will be determined after all. By the way, Niko, I guess you've talked a lot about Cacic's shares in various companies. You see, HNS leadership lives in houses and apartments where... The apartment and 89. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It wasn't on state salaries in 89, like some, 89, who didn't have a gemist, and today they have houses in Zagreb, Washington, apartments in Split and Dubrovnik, and no one will look at them and will sign that commission to explore where the money for buying these houses and apartments came from. Whether from pay or possibly from writing pornography for sheets that went out in Croatia and the former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31142	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31143	Well, I can really understand this deception, because for the boss, everything needs to be done. But, so talk about HNS's apartments, mix up some porn magazines, so all in one debate that doesn't really have a head, or tail, I was just saying, I was just talking about two cases, so Dubrovnik this, and about POS apartments. Just so I don't make a mistake. And now you're defending Mr. Chacic. No contest went through in his ministry without knowing in advance that there would be "congams", "conning" or "partners". Well, his wife had 10 companies that were partners and were winning. So it's true and that truth must come out in this home. And you won't, you won't, and you can't defend it, because the truth for the sake of this country must finally come to this home and sea, Croatian people must know how Mr. Cacic did business.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31144	Thank you. The third replica is Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31145	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I am sorry that my colleague Rebić is doing this kind of fake communication and talking in such an exciting way. But I'd like to warn him next. First of all, I don't think the encouraged housing on the program understands anything at all. Because if he understood anything, he wouldn't be putting up with his exposure today. Secondly, I would ask him to explain to me how many apartments are on the market, if the apartments that are being built in POS are at market price? Let me know how many markets and how many apartments are on the market, and how many apartments are built in stimulating construction? And thirdly, this POS programme that we did and the facilities that we were building in the encouraged housing, all of which I am literally repeating once again, so all the designs and all the supervisions were in the public tender, and the commission chosen by those who made the best offer in that commission was the representative of the Croatian Employers' Association. So a completely independent man who protects the interests of Croatian employers. So, no contest was made without being published publicly, that not everyone could have joined and that in the commission. And the third thing, fourth thing, is that the POS programme has shown so much quality that many people in Zagreb especially on the list of encouraged dwellings appear daily to influence us with their reputation that this programme continues to resolve their housing issues, because this is the only way for a large number of citizens of this Croatia, there is no other way. And finally that the programme is good, best said the fact that last week we were invited to Ljubljana to present a program of encouraging housing, because this programme and our neighbours of Slovenia want to apply as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31146	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31147	So I really have to say that I'm not comfortable hearing someone telling me that I don't know anything about POS. I've actually built more than she's seen, and she's in this House she's come giggling with other people's feathers before this one, so. If you want to talk about POS apartments, then the last affair in Lazarica that the guy down there is called Kodarac, where they got at one price to make apartments of some quality suitable for those, they made elitist apartments and, in fact, there were 56 square rooms, and the two rooms were about 100 square meters. So, you couldn't get into the building, so for social, encouraged housing, if you didn't buy the garage and you could park. So, it's all transparent, so you can insist maybe you didn't, maybe you were an excellent judge of the law and you might never answer, but I'm saying again you should know what the gentleman was doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31148	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the HDZ who signed this request, to form this Commission of Investigation, for a very simple reason. After more than 10 years of selecting time, moments, circumstances, etc., when the fire on Tomcic and his incompetence finally came to me for the first time that on some body that I am sure will form this Parliament I am telling the truth. And also to convince all those who know something, and actually judge people without knowing anything. I dare say this, because when my colleague Bosnjakovic spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, he noticed great discomfort on him and I believe that he felt uncomfortable explaining that this was a highly correct request, extremely fair, that no one was convicted, and that he knew very well that the public had ruled long ago, thanks to Mr. President to you, your performances, some other people from your party, etc., had been convicted long ago. Well, now we'll see that verdict was guilty, now we'll see. But I'm fully aware of this job I'm doing, to prove the truth after 10 years of being washed and yelling, that it's a small comfort and that actually real satisfaction is never there. But better late than never. What I'm asking HDZ representatives is that they wouldn't accidentally rush into withdrawing their signatures from this request, as some others did. I don't see any reason why the signatures have been withdrawn with any other investigative committees that should have been formed in this House, which justifiably leads me to suspect that it was some kind of trade. So if I am suspected on the basis of media inscriptions, then I have the right to suspect that here in this House trades and trades between political parties, because that's what the newspapers have written about, the newspaper has also written that there has been a trade in the Investigative Commission for Sanader and Zuzul. If some people in this House have the right to believe in newspaper writings, then I believe they've been trading, too. And that is why, with the ultimate indignity, I condemn the procedures of withdrawing signatures from the formation of investigative committees, as I express the surprise that those who have released the investigative committees, I mean specifically the prime minister, the Prime Minister, in the end, still agrees that some weeks under very suspicious circumstances defend him and create so-called. public perception of the honesty or dishonesty of certain people. I don't think it makes much sense together. I would generally agree that we can actually without special committees, but certainly on one condition, that the Committee of Conflict of Interest works. But what dear friends don't do doesn't work and doesn't work for 14 months. Why? For this very reason, if someone could be constantly held accountable, if the Committee of Conflict of Interest had functioned, I would not speak on behalf of Cacic or anyone, I speak for myself, the story of Tomcic would have long been finished and the Croatian public would have known the truth long ago. It should be delayed all the time, and I predict this commission will not start dealing with Tomcic immediately, and I predict it. Let the gentlemen form as soon as possible. Let me get into a situation where I tell the real truth and that you who suspect, you who read the newspaper, get full information. Why am I talking like this? Well, look. Just look at the questions that the investigating committee needs to determine. The first question is if he's a state official, I'm just reading my name, I mean this... He's interested. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the noise.]] I don't see any reason for Chacic and Tomcic to be mixed up in this material, no reason at all. Tomcic is Tomcic, he has his sins if he has them. Cacic is Cacic if he has his sins, they are not together. He says whether State official Zlatko Tomcic and the person referred to in Article 5(3) were the owner, part owner of the company Capital. Well, people, for the first time, I became a state official on April 3, 1993, so that's when I wrote that I own it. Well, you don't even have to check it out. Well, that's when I wrote it, so it exists in all the commercial courts written. So what's the commission gonna do to make sure I own it? I'm the co-owner of 22% of this company. Well, everyone in this country knows that. The other thing is, what's the point of the commission. To examine the legality of all contracts concluded with the state authorities by those companies. What will this investigative commission in this House do, as God please? Well, we've got the State Audit, we've got the State's Attorney's Office, and now there's going to be a legal investigation in the House. I'm sorry, I don't understand something. Legislativeity in the Parliament is difficult to question. Third question to be resolved, who concluded the contracts on behalf of the state authorities. So it's not possible that this government doesn't know who concluded the contracts. So now it's up to the state commission to investigate who concluded the contracts. Well, I guess those contracts are stored somewhere, so I guess those contracts exist somewhere. Says who named the expert commission. So what's there to question? Well, I guess it's part of some kind of documentation that exists in this country for all the affairs, to question the investigative committee. And we come to the only question, the one question that an investigative committee needs objectively and can work, and that is whether the official has favored those companies in the process of concluding a contract with state bodies. You see, the board of conflict of interest doesn't have to do this either. And that's why, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, my thesis stands. It should be difficult to form one commission, another commission, to create public perceptions about people, to judge them and not really know what it is. I further question why Tomcic should only be questioned from 2000 to 2003. So Tomcic's company was registered in 1991 and since then, it has been performing the same way on the Croatian market. This Tomcic thing applies to my percentage so that someone doesn't translate now if I said I did, I don't, I'm co-owner. Since 1991, the company has been performing under the same circumstances on the Croatian market. So please be nice, so what's this about? Why question these two years? And the HDZ government made contracts with that... HDZ's Government. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Let's go question all of this, dear gentlemen. Therefore, I am grateful to the representatives who wrote this. Finally, for the first time in my life, I'm going to get into a situation where it's revealed and told the truth. Please just remember one thing. The issues of owners and entrepreneurs are very often mixed. I've never challenged the fact that I own 22% of the company, but I'm challenging today that I'm an entrepreneur. I know it's hard to believe. Since I've been a state official, there's been no man in this country with whom I've been on the business of so-called business. My company talked, there's no man. Let's have one. A man like that doesn't exist in this country. Mr. President, that beard over there could finally calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31150	Gentlemen, we were in the French congregation the other day in the current class. Well, we're babies here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31151	I hope you'll allow me a little bit. So, I'm not running away from being the owner, but remember one thing, I'm not an entrepreneur. Everything the company does to the company's management. If someone finds it hard to believe that Tomcic is not involved in this so-called business. I didn't really blame my companies for 12 or 13 years, but they're gonna have to make a big, hard effort to prove to me that I have anything to do with the company's business. And as far as ownership is concerned, there is no man who will take away my constitutional right to be the owner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31152	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I don't know why you gave me a compliment that thanks to me this matter has already been ruled. I accept that as a compliment. We're going to correct an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31153	I'll just say that neither the public nor anyone has ruled on this at all. Here is only the goal of actually forming a commission that will determine the true state of affairs, which will determine the truth whether there have been any violations of the law, even morals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31154	And the esteemed representative Zlatko Kramarić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31155	Dear Mr. President! I fully respect my colleague Tomcic's position on his opinion of withdrawing the signature, but also as I defend him he must also allow and believe that my withdrawal, my act of withdrawing the signature was an act of free will and that no media inscriptions should be trusted, that it is not an act of any trade. That's exactly how it was said that the media created a public court, a public perception that it was about trade. With me no one has traded or can trade, nor would I allow, but exactly what is happening in parliament tonight shows in fact all the weakness of Croatian political life that we are dealing exclusively with ourselves and that in fact a whole series of real problems we simply leave behind and if we go... We could have 152 investigative committees here, and I don't know who you think we could be here in any way and we can determine the truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm afraid there are other instances of criminal responsibility and it's no good to turn the assembly into a courtroom and from the courtroom to the other institution is a very small step.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31156	Yes, very little. Courts impose other than penalties and other safeguard measures, security measures. And replicator Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31157	Dear Mr. Tomcic, just for a little while. Namely, it could be a form of replica of course when it repeated or actually looked back on what it has been since 2000 and not since 91, 05 or 06? For the simple reason that you have been doing very important since that year, not to say, what is he even talking about, so you were the president of the Croatian Parliament. That's why!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31158	Okay. Thank you very much. It is now 7:00 p.m. so we would break up, continue tomorrow morning, we have a decent number of MPs, as well as a representative, Zvonimir Mršić, Vladimir Pleško, Alenka Košisa Cicin-Sain, that is Nikola Vuljanić, which is the order tomorrow morning first. Resume at 9.30. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Debate on a proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee. Dear Representative Vladimir Plesko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31160	Mr. President, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, quite frankly, were said in yesterday's presentations and taking into account the debate we had yesterday on the final proposal for a law to confirm the United Nations Convention against Corruption, I think it is precisely the right time for this high House to discuss and this proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to establish facts regarding the conclusion of a contract between state-owned companies and companies owned or partly owned by officials is fully justified with several facts. When we enter into a debate on this agenda point, we first have to deal with mathematics and determine how much money is taxed in this proposal. By adding these items, we come up with a sum of 307 million 875 thousand kunas that were paid by companies owned or partly owned by the official Radiir Cacic. And 6 million 808,000 kunas related to Goldilock Tomcic's official. I must point out that from an opportunity of 0.5% of the country's one-year budget of those times, I must also point out that, let's say, the entire budget of several ministries was far less than that. Let's say the Foreign Ministry in 2003 had a budget of $69 million. The European Integration Ministry had a budget of 29.9 kuna. And what's very interesting is that the Ministry of crafts and small and medium enterprises in 2003 had only 137 million kuna budgets. The fact that during the period 2000 to 2003, the representatives mentioned were senior state officials who created or more accurately created the government's financial policy and were authors or co-authors of different projects can mention POS which were financed or co-financed from the state budget is a visible possibility of creating illegal links between the authorities and state-owned companies and companies owned or partly owned by officials. Furthermore, because of the frequent invitation to tender for me, one fact that is not mentioned in this proposal is disputed. And this is a question of who had access to the offerings of public tenders and contracts delivered and signed by other Croatian companies. Why? The law also says that conflict is of interest if they deal with privileged information and confidential information. Such classified information in the world is obtained by industrial spying. They're very expensive because it's very hard to get to the same ones. However, if one person has the exact price a company charges on a large project, such as a cubic meter of built-in concrete or how much it charges for building a square meter wall, so it uses this information to compare the prices of those who have received a job in a particular public competition, it can very well assess how much an offer may be on some next competition and which may be passing through, Is this possible conflict of interest? Yeah. It's possible. And that is why it is also necessary to verify through this committee that there were reasons, that the reason for the adoption of the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest was accepted but only at the end of the term of office was last called by the Parliament and the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31161	Thank you. Replica is Alenka Košisa Chichin Shain's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31162	Thank you, Mr. President. I would only like to respond to my colleagues when he has already mentioned how the competition was conducted under the program of encouraging housing. Namely, all those who responded to the competition, the opening bid was public, the costs were public and prices were read loudly. So everyone who came and appeared to the competition could look at it had a complete insight into the complete documentation and a complete tender. So you could see exactly what company she offered for what cubic meter of concrete, or square meter of wall. So all the information was public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31163	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31164	Mr. President, dear colleagues, that's exactly what you're seeing. BUT I very much know that in such large competitions and when it is done, when the offer documents are opened very often, only certain items are viewed means summatic items. But when we talk about an analysis at each point of an offer, and when you have it all the time, it means on your desk, and when you can combine it so that I don't speak photocopy and take it somewhere, it's something completely different. And you haven't convinced me with your replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31165	Thank you. Honorable Alemka Kosha Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31166	I thank Mr. President, here I absolutely support the formation of this committee. As with my signature, I have advocated the establishment of a committee to examine how to acquire property by some other officials in this government. In the perception of our public, politicians are not qualified as persons of particular reputation, and this qualification that they are all the same is exactly the reason more for this commission, as well as other committees on members of Parliament and Government, to form and to present their reports to this high House. And that the doubt which is particularly manipulated in pre-election time is finally confirmed or rejected once and for all, and in the case of Cacic after 14 years. It is no doubt that the executive authorities and the right and duty through all the institutions of the rule of law, such as the police, the state's attorney's office, the BOOK of tax inspections and other authorities, establish every type of illegality and thus sanction it. The law should be one for all of the prime ministers to a completely anonymous citizen. For a reason, government officials are required to have increased attention and control of their activities, and this matter has been regulated by the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials by 2003. And a law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties was passed in 2003. The primary opposition in Parliament, given the fact that it does not control the instruments of the executive authority, has the possibility to check the work of state bodies, state officials and others through the investigative committees in accordance with the Law on Investigation Commissions. Compared to Mr. Cacic, although interesting, although the largest executive official publicly announced to all of us at the beginning of the year an investigation that would eventually confirm publicly spoken slanders by one wicked, we can call him that, because the slanderer is honorable, whether the slanderer is honorable. A member of this high house, to this day these slanders continue to be confirmed. And no one has in any way justifiedly questioned the former minister's actions and the current representative, Mr. Cacic. It is interesting that at the request of the prime minister, the State Attorney's Office is unable to make arguments against Mr Cacic for almost a year, and within a few days, all doubts about the work and actions of Mr Zuzul are rejected. Efforts are evident not to make it clear that there are no arguments for slander, leaving complete space for slanderers. For us, there is no doubt that things in such and similar investigations are brought down to data on the property status of officials before and after leaving office. And that I simply need to examine whether the property has increased and, if so, whether it has come legally and with the payment of all the obligations prescribed by law. As regards the application of the Law on Conflict of Interest, although it is publicly known that Mr Cacic was the sole official who transferred ownership over his assets before the law was brought into force. Which, through the procedure of the committee to which he himself has applied and established himself and, to this day and at the repeated written request of Mr Cacic, has not been delivered by the commission, of course it is possible to confirm this by the work of the investigation committee. It is an unusual situation that de facto executive authority is looking for the Commission, although for 4 years in opposition, while Mr Cacic acted as the minister did not seek it. The prime minister's announcement that he will request him as party president does not change the fact of his position as prime minister. Although this shows that in the absence of arguments for slanders, a new instrument tries to extend and expand the space of attack against a political rival. I support the formation of this committee especially because I have no doubt that the results will at least in this round of political conflicts make it impossible to slander our representative and, in all public assessments, the farthest successful minister in the past government. Finally, I am for "all of us", to the full truth precisely for rehabilitation and profession and for the reputation of politicians in the eyes of the public. My dear colleagues, I expect you to continue to support this and all the other committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31167	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31168	... and the public's interest in this case. [[Specially enabled.]] Public interest is beyond doubt. It is certainly a public interest to establish whether officials in the previous Assembly and parliamentary representatives in this Assembly are moral persons, persons who can fully represent one part of the electoral body of the Republic of Croatia. If they're not, then they should be carrying political conjecture. The investigation committee, of course, is one way to achieve it. However, these two former officials and current parliamentary representatives are not the only ones whose moral or immoral or immoral behaviour is subject to public interest and public interest. It is absolutely certain that the public interest is at present the most what the profile is and what they have done and what current officials are doing. We tried to run the investigation committee, it happened with the signatures that happened, so I would repeat the appeal to my colleagues from HDZ if they really wanted things to be cleared out to the fullest extent that everyone's cards would come to the table to sign that proposal for the establishment of an investigative commission so that we could make things all the way to the end. We'll figure out who's rich. We know that and now according to the property cards, I guess no one has falsified the property cards, that the data in them is true and we can figure out how someone became rich. Who was a successful entrepreneur, who had made life, left behind, who was dealing pornography, who was doing what work. So, it should certainly form this Investigation Commission, primarily for the reason that this situation is not repeated before each election, and it has been repeated for 10 years for Mr. Cacic as a hare magician to be removed from his hat and show and say, yeah, that's a thief you see, so every time, and so five times, so six times. And in the end, the question is, what will be the result of this Commission's work. If the Bureau of Investigation finds that this was a criminal act, it is, of course, a duty to report it to the State's attorney. If the Commission finds that this was a conflict of interest, it is a duty to report it to the Commission for conflict of interest. If he doesn't determine either of them, then what does he find? It's been established that people are right and healthy. So let him do it all the way. The question arises along the way that the authorities needed this Commission of Investigation. Of course, the court's authority is independent and the executive authority is not affected by it, but when the question of trust was raised, Minister Zuzul's attorney-general, within 48 hours clearly and loudly investigated everything, questioned everything and found that there were no elements to move anything. According to my colleague Letica, there's one thing I don't know about the same state's attorney, I don't know how many feet of material that describes the criminal activities of former Minister Cacic, and none of that, any meter of material, none of that. Not a month, not six months, but a few years. It's all actually a strategy, a strategy to create impressions, they're all the same. Impressions where voters are disgusted and see us and look at us and think about us. The impressions that launch those who are in the interest of doing what they're already doing and which is definitely not moral. When we know all of this, we can decide in two ways, or by disgust, we can refuse to participate in such a carnival in such a procedure that we have no moral connection or to say, so good, if that's the case and when we want to make things clear to the end, let's clarify them but let's clear them up for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31169	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the promoter, I felt the need to say at least two things. First, the truth was much talked about the public interest yesterday, but the public interest as a fundamental legal assumption for making such a decision and the public interest is also in the explanation of the proposal for a decision and legal so not to say in the sense of the application of the Constitution and Article 3. I mean very reasonedly reasoned, and I repeat this is a basic legal prerequisite for the accession of the proposed decision. Secondly, neither is the aim of this investigation committee nor of everyone else to reveal who is rich or poor. Absolutely not. The aim of this investigative committee in relation to two prominent state officials, you know very well that this is about the President of the Croatian Parliament and the Minister of the Last Government, and this is not about any investigations but about the purpose of the research is precisely determined, explained and you have it in the context of the proposal for the decision itself. Being a colleague means nothing more than creating a very different climate, which is inflation of the investigative committees in order to just dissociate that or try to spread political responsibility and create a climate in society, we are all the same, all of us politicians are who we are and in this sense send a message to the Croatian public. On the contrary, the aim and the proposal goes in the opposite direction to see that it is not implemented, we are neither a judicial body nor any other judicial body, we are a parliamentary body, and when we establish an investigative commission that will quite accurately identify the facts that we have stated as public interest that this commission should be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31171	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31172	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues would like to say something about, in fact, I would like to continue on what my colleague Vuljanic said, that we are re-assembling grandmothers and frogs for the simple reason that we are moving into something that we can see from the plane that it's a pure waste of mud on certain people. Because if you gentlemen wanted to do something about transparency, in terms of what these two officials have acquired, then you would use all the institutions of the system you have, and you have the state's attorney's office and you have a committee to decide on a conflict of interest. I'd like to say something first about the state's attorney's office. I think, seeing as you're not at all happy with the work of a state attorney, I suggest that in any way, you replace him, because he's not doing anything, he's incompetent, he doesn't know, because from how you react to him, how you treat him, he should be replaced. Why? Because a year ago in the second month of last year, Mr. Letica took the papers to Mr. Sanader and said that Mr. Cacic was ready to clean up or something like that and that he saw some 90, 92 centimeters of material that was made for Mr. Cacic, 92 centimeters. But those 92 centimeters never turn into anything and that's why I'm saying that I think Mr. Bajic should leave because he didn't do that part right. So you don't trust the state's attorney's office. You don't trust the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest, and I don't trust him either because I haven't been able to check any of us with that commission, because we haven't been able to investigate unless in three cases. In three cases and we've been checking on three people, it's Mr. Jure Bitunjac, Mr. Ivan Chehok and Mr. Radimir Cacic. They're the only three people the commission has heard. I don't want to talk about these two gentlemen, but since Mr. Cacic is directly today the subject of an investigative committee, then I would like to say a few words about what the commission then has determined. It established one basic fact, and this is that Mr. Cacic, in 1999, took his share in companies, and listed them all in the property card, transferred them to the lawyer's office, unlike some 180 state officials speaking from the eye, I would have to count them, and I didn't count them because we didn't go out with those data in public, unlike 180 or 200 state officials who still today have shares greater than the law allowed and that's 0.5%. And I'm also talking about 90 or more state officials who today receive fees from companies, and according to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, they can't do that. And it's not true that the commission couldn't work. On 18.12., I resigned from the commission, in fact 18.12., I had two months' notice, a legal deadline for my membership in the commission, but since my resignation, a commission has been appointed which, just as this could now be called and could work because it had five members. They could have called. Mr. Tomac, as the oldest member of this committee, could have called the commission and they could have started working. They didn't start working, they didn't even come to take over the materials because I arranged everything for them for the handover. They didn't come. Now one more thing I want to point out in this committee is what happened, and that is that many officials who have companies, who receive any work compensation, are allowed to do legal work, such as Mr. Tomcic all the time had 22% of the stake in the company while the law was allowed and is the only one of the officials who reported his income to the commission within 15 days as prescribed by law. Within 15 days of receiving them. If these data were correct we haven't checked, just like we haven't checked anyone's property card any of us haven't been able to do, and we should have. Why did I tell you in the beginning to pick up your grandmothers and frogs? I would like to repeat this story that my colleague Vuljanic said, this investigative commission, even if it is established and if it does work, if it finds that it is some sort of criminal act, it should be handed over to the state's attorney's office. If it finds that there is a conflict of interest, it should be handed over to the Commission. So what do we do? We both have. Why are we doing stupid things? Why don't we let the institutions we have, who exist to do their job. And another thing to do is get back to withdrawing the signature. Mr. Sanader said nicely that he agrees that other investigative committees are being set up, so here I call on you gentlemen to put your signatures on and to establish this investigative commission when we don't already trust the system, so let's start this investigation committee and make sure there's something or no. I hope you'll put your signatures on our request to set up an investigative committee for Mr. Sanader and Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31173	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31174	Your Honor, Mr. President, since this is suspected of the credibility of my statements, I would like to call here only as a polemic to two manual numbers in the state's attorney's office. The first number is KR-398/04 notice on the state of the payment of a $20m premium to Bechtel as a contractor of the works of the Bregana-Zagreb-Dubrovnik highway after the criminal processing undertaken by the employees of the First Administration of Zagreb. Another announcement about the state of the case turns out to be 48 million kuna premiums to the company COP Designers after the conduct of the criminal processing of police employees, this manual number is KR DO39804. So don't doubt it, I've seen it, the objects of Radomir Cacic, Radiir Cacic are 92 centimeters thick.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31175	Thank you. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you'd called, we'd have a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here are the two names of our colleagues, once senior officials, mentioned in this proposal for a decision on the establishment of an investigative committee. One was a minister, and the other was Prime Minister, so it was Mr. Radimir Cacic and HSS leader Zlatko Tomcic. Is it, please? I know what I'm saying and don't get me distracted. So when it comes to Mr. Cacic, I can't say if what he did was moral or immoral, but colleagues and colleagues simply can't believe it, I can't believe it, but I can't imagine Mr. Zlatko Tomcic otherwise made the leader of HSS something immoral and illegal while he was in power. I just can't believe it. Now, my dear colleague and friend, Mladen Delic, would say, "Is that possible, my people, to suspect a man of honor?" Gentlemen, it's not very convenient to suspect. Well, yesterday we were listening to Mr. Gold Tomcic talking at least five, six times about the truth. The truth is a very interesting emotion, and I am convinced when this man speaks of the truth that the power of those words is about as firm as a spider on the wall. So, that I think that man, I really think that man did nothing immoral, and the proof of that is that Mr. Zlatko Tomcic is everything he did, did honorably, honestly, legally, truly and morally, as far as I know, from early youth to this day. Especially since he was assigned to Croatia from Belgrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31177	Thank you. Dear Representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31178	Thank you very much. Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected MPs and MPs. Here it is already said on a number of occasions, I will only repeat that this country has, as is known, a legal system. We're a legal state or at least on the best track to become one. We have the police, the attorney's office, the BOOK, the inspections, the tax and customs administrations, we have all the organs I think we should, and not just me, do a lot of the work we're dealing with here. I must honestly say that I have no doubt that you all remember about a year ago at the instigation of a respected colleague and presidential candidate Letica has received some documents here. It wasn't exactly a meter, but let's say a few inches waved and said he'd give a warrant to examine it in detail. It's been a year, on a series of questions the State's Attorney's Office has been very clear and said that not only is there nothing, but there's no doubt about anything and that no one can be suspected. Of course, if the institutions are to date, even though in some cases, they see the Zuzul case, they were able to say very clearly within 8 days whether something needs to be investigated or whether there are any doubts or not, and they haven't been here for a year yet. Of course, if the institutions are not able to do so, it is obvious that there is another mechanism here that is not so legally framed, where there are no such clear rules of the game and which can be easily manipulated. It's, say, a political mechanism of the Commission of Investigation. And it's an institution, but not with such firm rules of play. We know that the investigative committees in their structure are such that they represent the composition of the Parliament. Thus, conclusions can be similar. In this whole story, I have to say that it may surprise you, but it must have surprised you, but we really think that there are serious reasons for us to support the establishment of such committees no matter what. For at least two basic reasons. One of these reasons is the fact that as far as I'm concerned, not just me, but here I'm talking about myself, but for 15 years I've been exposed to all forms of debauchery, threats, slander, anything a political opponent can use when he's completely unscrupulous. I'm neither particularly unprepared nor taught. I was sentenced 30 years ago by some of these predecessors today for political delinquency. True, and then the Supreme Court eventually set me free, but I was convicted of political delinquency, so I have already, and slandered and muddyed, etc., so I've already got one long, long practice. Yet the slanders, of course, bring certain negative results, but I must say that this curve comes to some limit. When it reaches one limit, they stop giving results. Maybe it's even getting counterproductive. In that sense, I must say, I consider myself to be within my reach. You can also tell from the results I've achieved in the election, from the results of our party. So the slanders stopped being effective. Among other things, because they last for 30 years, that is, at this new stage of 15 years and 15 years, because 30 years ago was because of a political delinquent, and these 15 are trying to bind themselves to other things entirely. But, of course, none of it ever happened, so people think a little bit, probably for the reason that there's nothing. I think that's quite a reasonable conclusion. So here this slander again, i.e. trying to be slandered, i take me naturally stoic and as a serious opportunity to speak with a little more public attention and truths this time. The truth is, as it is known, that the slander of feathers was thrown out of the plane, and defamation of slander one effort to collect it. Right, but that effort is worth it, too. It's true that Goebbels said that a hundred times the slander in public perception becomes true, but it's not really true. And once told the truth about crime when it's confirmed that truth. Therefore, libel ratios have nothing to do with facts and truth. Of course, I have to mention here the fact that in 90, 91, 92, I was invited on several occasions to the HDZ government for refusing. And then they slandered me, but they tried to reach me in government. I must also say that it is public, namely, open and clear in my eyes that it will destroy me and my company with some threats I will not even mention here. I accepted it, said, "Listen, I'm continuing with my policy, clear and clean, as I've always done, if you don't like it, try to stop me. If you think that the methods of illegal activities are appropriate to you, you will do so." That's what they did. In '95, they decided to kidnap the shareholders and me personally as one of the shareholders of the company, destroyed it completely, caused damages of 71 million marks. He was running a local HDZ criminal. It ended the way it ended. The Constitutional Court ruled, the company returned it, confirmed it was all a crime, and now that man is in court. He's in court for the crimes he's committed. HDZ mayor. Of course, this opportunity was taken, during those few years, when the company was kidnapped to do business that he had run with contempt, of course, and by the orders of the party, it was used the opportunity to run the business in a way that could muddy me. Although, of course, I had nothing to do with the company at the time, it is a question of Dubrovnik, Zadar, etc. Nothing new, nothing unusual. So, not only were the damage done, it was still trying and muddying. For defamation and defamation, I sued both criminally and civilly at the time and the Director of the Fund at the state level and locally. What happened? Convicted one who had no immunity was sentenced to prison and civil for defamation. For the same things that were said here. So, at the very least, it will be a chance for this Commission of Investigation to talk about some of the topics to say some of the truth, the public will hear it. Another important thing why I want this commission is to open up the possibility of finally establishing one standard, that each, and especially the highest state official at any time of the opening of doubt must be open and transparent to the public and that everyone should examine the way of obtaining his property, paying taxes, anything that may have been unlawfully done. Of course certain doubts, starting with receiving 800 thousand marks, which were in public, of course unconfirmed by the prime minister given to him by Kutle, which was written about, is not a secret. Afere Bechtel, an Imostroj affair, the latest match affair, all the signatures of Prime Minister and Zuzul open and a certain suspicion that requires it to be questioned. Who has morals, who has the cheeks to ask to examine the business of the other political party, here is me, and at the same time not to accept the examination of their own business that will naturally judge the public. I personally think it must be an unusual moral character acting that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31179	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31180	Thank you. If this were the case with counterpart Racic, that the judiciary is doing its job well, Croatia would not be at the top of the world's most corrupt countries in the world. This is what the best testimony is to the court's statutes in Dubrovnik and your role in the affair with the nursing home. And when you talk about the truth, it can really be variable and it can be adapted and... However, you should always remind the Croatian nation what was happening, I do not argue that you did not find a way that the Croatian judiciary was not corrupt you would probably be responsible for some parts of the business from your past. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31181	Replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31182	Well, my colleague Cacic would like to make the impression that the State's Attorney's office has done its job. I am in possession of the minutes in Stanko Kovac's police hearing, which is explicit that all the actions were notified to Radimir Cacic, and in both papers that I mentioned the closing sentence, it reads "that the State's Attorney's Office has sent a request to the Zagreb Police Administration to do a further investigation", I hope it would be good for Cacic to say whether he was invited to the Police, when he will be called to say his name, as his mother is called, whether he is punished, and we will see where he will go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31183	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31184	Unlike Mr. Letica who was invited to the police, I have never been invited to the police in my life, and I would be very happy to respond if ever necessary. And I also have to make it very clear that I'm not saying that our judiciary is doing a good job, and I hope it works much better. And one way to prove it and prove it is, after a year when it already took him 8, and here 365 is not enough, that after a year he finally says clearly, I call here publicly, is there anything in any way that could be brought in any illegal way about me? Here, thank you. I'm calling the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31185	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31186	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday afternoon and this morning we lost hours and hours defining and redefining what it is, which is not of public interest. We have also heard different reasons why some of our colleagues have not been prosecuted in the past 14 years, but we are opting for a parliamentary investigation committee. I suggest colleagues and colleagues not to waste any more time, because it is clear to everyone in Croatia what is happening in Croatia, except for us sitting in the Croatian Parliament. First, it's a question of public interest, and that's where we put the point. Second, why didn't they initiate court proceedings? There are colleagues and colleagues two possibilities. One, either there's no legal basis to do that, or there's no rule of law. There is a third option, though, if there is no legal basis, and someone needs to be politically compromised, then there are other options. However, colleagues and colleagues so as not to leave the dilemma, we have to do something today and make a deal. The minimum civilization standard in every democratic and well-organised state requires that the truth be established. In every democratic and well-organised state, however, we have heard it through state institutions, police, secret police, lawyers, tax administrations and judicial authorities. It is precisely because of the truth in every democratic and well-organised society and opposition that has the opportunity to cast out the truth and therefore is the institution of the Investigative Commission, yes, yes. Although I see some of them nodding their heads, some of them disagree, but that's it. In our case, the fact that the ruling party is running an investigation committee, and not using all the mechanisms available to it, suggests that the usual procedure is not used. Why are we going this way, my colleague and my colleagues? I think Mr. Rebic said everything he needs to say. In fact, he found that the rule of law simply doesn't work, and I agree with him completely, but I wouldn't put a point there, I'd be wondering, why isn't the rule of law working? Who's to blame for not functioning the rule of law? Whose hands are both skirts and scissors? Who makes the laws? Who's changing them, who's supplementing them, so they can just function these state institutions, if the law is the one that obstructed their functioning? Who chooses the government? Who chooses ministers? Who recalls them if they don't implement those laws and they don't implement what we agreed here? We live in a state that is parliamentary democracy. My colleagues and colleagues, it's not my... fisherman's fault, it's me and you, it's not the Slavonic peasant's fault, it's you and me. It's not the Zagreb factory worker's fault, it's me and you, that the rule of law doesn't work and nobody else does. I, and my colleagues from the HNS, have heard you'll be supported, no matter what we're doing on a truly unusual path. But we must finally do something, we must step forward. Get away from us, get away from the CNS. But colleagues and colleagues hope that you agree with me, let's not stop there, at least allow the assumption that there are also other problems and individuals in this country that obstruct its functioning and the rule of law of Croatia. Let's turn the page today and really go the other way. Let's lay a solid foundation and a clear foundation for the rule of law. I can't agree and I don't think you can sign, withdraw the signatures, that there are several hundred untouchable in this country whose legal problems are solved within a few days. And on the other hand, you have 4.5 million people waiting for years for court decisions to meet their minimum human needs or rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31187	Thank you. We're going to a five-minute debate. Honorable deputy president Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS-PGS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31188	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The submission for this investigative committee and the whole debate that was being held here and the procedure has one fundamentally embedded problem, and that is the assumption and argument that on behalf of the promoter here is that the facts that are of public interest to colleagues Cacic and Tomcic need to be established. At the same time, this same parliament argues by not signing, even by citing or calling for an independent withdrawal of signatures that it is not of public interest to know the exact situation concerning the first man of the executive authority in the state, so Prime Minister and still Minister Zuzul. So learning about how companies were doing business and how counterparts Cacic and Tomcic worked is of public interest but knowing how the prime minister of the state acquired his property and Minister Zuzul did it not come from public interest. It's a built-in problem in this whole debate, which then leads to the conclusion that only the whole thing is being imposed. Namely, the idea of investigating committees is that it is possible for all and for all to apply the same criteria, and in the same way to assess whether they did business or to acquire their property in accordance with the law, rules and good practices and criteria that are formally prescribed. In order to avoid the formation of an investigative commission which would have led to the same public suspicions found for the two key and first men of executive authority in this country, the most different things were done in this House at the time when it had to be established only to put on the agenda, even if it did not form a commission for Sanader and Zuzula because of course you can always vote not to accept but even to put on the agenda there was not enough will in this Parliament, and at that moment it suddenly became too big, became too many investigative committees. It's said here to go through institutions. Of course it is necessary to go through institutions but investigative committees are institutions and investigative committees are the institutions of this system and investigative committees are the institutions of this Parliament. It is said all the time that we need to go to Europe and clear bribes, corruption, the use of political positions for wealth is also the way to Europe, but also the rise in the level of political culture is also the way to Europe. And here we supported one proposal for an investigative commission for our colleague from our club because we thought it was our contribution to being equal to everyone. Equal criteria for everything. What has turned this into a pressure on people by unpreparedness and by refusing to support such a criterion, the same exact same procedure for HDZ officials, so for Prime Minister Sanader and Minister Zuzula this refusal shows one very simple thing, which is that here this investigative commission wants to be used for political revenge. So far, political revenge if it was never this public. This is the first time parliament has been used, the institution of parliament to carry out political revenge, so of course the investigative commissions are not. And if you want us to act as a parliament that shows that it is ready to go to Europe, which leads a country that is ready to go to Europe, then you can't use parliament for political revenge and threat, then it has to be equal to everyone and the minimum is that there is no one who is not allowed to even put on the agenda of the truth topic. And here it is being prevented and it has been prevented even on the agenda from putting on the topic of truth for the top officials of Prime Minister and Minister Zuzul's executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31189	Thank you very much. I am obliged to provide an explanation on this complaint by the Honored Vice-President on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of this proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee. The moment in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, when your proposal for an investigative commission arrived, I put it on the agenda. There was a withdrawal of the signature in the agenda and therefore an intervention was requested from the president of your club, Mr Lesar, to clarify whether the withdrawal of the signature from the proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee was relevant. On this he gave his opinion to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system with one vote abstention or against, one vote against and after that, the vast majority accepted the vote and the Croatian Parliament and it became an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the SDP Club, a five-minute debate by the respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31190	Mr. President, let me just briefly repeat the reasons why the SDP will not vote for this commission. We will not vote for the first reason we believe that the reasons for the establishment of this commission are a political one, or a deal with two officials. The second reason is that the Commission's name is in complete dissatisfaction with the objective set out in the proposal for a decision. Namely, the commission should establish the facts regarding the concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials, and only two officials Radimir Cacic and Zlatko Tomcic are mentioned. We warned yesterday that these officials were more. In order for the commission to really deal with what the name of the commission would suggest to deal with, for example, questions or the case of Mr. Miomir Zuzul, who was, in his time, the owner of the stocking factory and his stockings were sold by the state, specifically to the Croatian military while the defence minister was the late Gojko Šušak. So she traded with a country in a pattern that is unacceptable in the modern world. We also mentioned an example of the daughter of the late President Tudjman, who opened a private business in the Moreh area on Zvonimir Street. The second, third reason is that we feel that the commission is completely unnecessary. In Croatia, there is a Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, which already states in the first article that conflict of interest is a situation in which the private interests of officials are contrary to public interest or where private interest affects or may affect the impartiality of officials in the exercise of public duty. However, even before this Law was adopted, the Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials which was prescribed that officials whose interests in their business, private and other activities could come into conflict with the public interest and the duty they exercise must immediately inform the body that has chosen them. When it comes to the suspicion that someone has committed a crime in the conduct of duty, the procedure is well - known. Anyone who has any knowledge of this must file a criminal report because otherwise, it itself commits a criminal offence against another who has some knowledge. Therefore, there is no point in talking here because it is not Parliament's jurisdiction, we also said that when Minister Zuzul was being discussed. When it comes to the suspicion that an official is in conflict of interest, which is quite different from the suspicion that he has committed a criminal act which we have also taken a clear position in the debate over the Zuzul affair, then we stress that there is already a body that must investigate that doubt, which is the commission to investigate conflicts of interest. The commission is complete, yesterday we heard from the President of the Parliament that according to the Rules of Procedure of the Committee, MP Mak as the age-oldest member of the Committee is obliged to call a constitutive session of the Committee in order to elect its president and to begin work. We now from this place here are calling on MP Mak to call as soon as possible a constitutive session of the Commission and to start working. And to conclude, to be quite clear: the SDP Club does not object to an examination of the possible conflict of interest for any official, but rather to the contrary, it takes the view that everyone's position is being examined and that the independent committee is constantly or that it examines all the disputed situations. This is not only true for Mr Tomcic and Cacic but also for Zuzul and Sanader and anyone else. We believe that their cases should also be dealt with by an independent committee to prevent conflicts of interest. There, Mr. President, these are the short reasons why the SDP will vote in principle, in principle against the establishment of this special committee for the two officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31191	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Agent Ante Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31192	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the foundation for which this and all previous committees are founded is of public interest, the public interest is this main element that is always mentioned and stressed. What that public interest looks like in the eyes of the public after yesterday's debate, after continuing today's debate, after all we all sum up ourselves all of what we have survived and how we have seen and how we look at these and these discussions. I think it's a public assessment that this is a barren interest. Yesterday I was just talking about a bad rider who always gets bad results on a good horse. Today I'm saying it's a public assessment that this is a barren interest. And it's not just because there's a lot of investigative committees, but because it's simply impossible, not the political elite, not the administration, nor the bureaucracy can and must not live in the belief that the real problems of this society were social, economic, legal, but also civilised by the red tape of formal legal norms and not by the content of the problems of this society, so if you want this and any other investigative committee. We can't constantly scratch the surface and expect the public to clap on such scratches and it's actually just ping-pong adding a ball and measuring on one side of vanity and on the other side of personal endurance towards the one that is so manifest. It's not right at first, but it's not even necessary for this society. This society certainly requires the determination of the same truth and the same things that have been happening and that are going to happen. And that is why the HSS Club remains at the assessment of its consent to establish this investigative commission and all investigative committees but with another legal norm that will indeed give results and that the public's interest afterwards will be empty than the public's interest will be praised for this House, for this Parliament and for our parliamentary democracy that it has made a step and that it has finally solved something. I think these people of our colleagues who have launched a proposal to launch an investigative committee, Mr. Tomcic and Mr. Cacic need and must have the opportunity to finally close this topic through the formation of this committee which, unfortunately, I must confirm is already almost consummated, because for many years, even though Mr. Tomcic has been letting go of inaccuracy, lies and various illusions, and it is time to finally put an end to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31193	Thank you. Final review. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31194	Here, Mr. President, on behalf of the motionary, allow me to look finally at and exhaust the debate and the long-term debate. And on behalf of the promoter, I can actually say and conclude that we have not noticed anyone directly opposed, specifically to the establishment of this investigative commission. On the contrary, it was just pointed out from the words of most speakers that the election commission was already formed once, and that people, i.e. parliamentary representatives, I would say in the previous term, one of the most prominent state officials, so it is the President of the Croatian Parliament and Minister of the Croatian Government, about all the circumstances which are also mentioned in the context of the proposal itself that this will actually benefit them, for once, all these contracts that have been signed, circumstances, the way and transfers of funds from the state budget have been enlightened, and this is actually the purpose of this investigation committee, and it is so clear and written. And let me, it's just two sentences, to finish this debate and point out. Therefore, the aim of the survey is to identify all the facts relating to the conclusion of a contract in which state bodies and legal entities owned by the Republic of Croatia appear as investors and as the contractor of a company known to be owned and partly owned by state officials in a particular situation, so it is the President of the Croatian Parliament and Minister of the Croatian Government. Furthermore, absolutely on behalf of the promoter I can say that we also agree that we should have one criterion for all, Absolutely the proposal for this decision does not esculate any state in any position. This is a concrete proposal for a specific situation that took place in Croatian society during the 4 years of the term of office from 2000 to the end of 2003. With the large amount of money, so it's nearly 2 hundreds of millions of kuna, I think the public interest between the elements of this public interest and the fact itself and that other elements of the established, unequivocally established public interest I'm not even talking about. So the position of the promoter is that this is not about any manipulation. THAT IT IS NOT a political revenge, that there is no abuse of the Institute of Investigations, it is one institute that is provided for by our law. To whom and working bodies and all parliamentary representatives, i.e. the majority required under the legal norm, can be initiated at any time for any time when they assess that this is justified by the same proposal for such a decision as we have proposed to the Croatian Assembly. And secondly, I would like to emphasise that we are absolutely agreeing as legislators that we already once need to work on a commission to prevent conflicts of interest. However, I ask you, as parliamentary representatives, whether this commission did not, not in the sense of the President of the Commission, naked as a body, make a real working body or something concrete, have made a concrete decision, and we have given the decision at the plenary session of the Assembly ever. And it's been over a year since that commission was formed. And of course we are and we support the activation of this commission and we hope that it will win results, or, in the next period, actually fulfil the purpose for which it is based, and that the Commission for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest will finally function in the way that it is stipulated by law and other regulations. But I repeat if the body, not if the political thinking of these or those members of the commission themselves, in the sense of calling press conferences or problematizing those problems for which one of the members of that committee, thinks they should be presented publicly. It's final. We suggest all of these signatories that the Croatian Parliament make this decision. To get the commission started as soon as possible with the work to establish all these facts which are stated in the explanation that they should be established as such and that as soon as possible we will receive a report from the Commission with a proposal for measures we hope to take, as the Croatian Parliament and accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31195	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31196	It is incorrect that the commission to prevent conflicts of interest was formed a year ago. It was formed in a six-beam instead of seven members as many as it should have been. It's in full shape only recently. At the final session of the Parliament. And then, only now did they get the conditions that it could work legally, legitimately in full composition. The only thing missing is that MP Mak, as the oldest of the age, is the establishment of a session of the committee. And that it can begin to deal with real issues of conflict of interest and also these issues listed as relevant in this proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31197	Thank you. Second correction by the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31198	A colleague made a lot of inaccuracies about the work of that former commission, but I'd say one thing. It is incorrect that the commission has made no decision. The commission has made a decision and, on the basis of this one decision, Mr Jure Bitunjac has cleared up his conflict of interest and is no longer in conflict of interest. It's one of the decisions. And I don't want to list any further, and it's incorrect what Mr. Stazic said that the commission was never formed. The commission had a constitutive session that the commission could work, but it was obstructed all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-02-0.u31199	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The next item on the vote is the Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission for the determination of facts relating to concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials. This applies, it is on the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club. Please, the debate is closed. This proposal for a vote is being voted on as a previous issue. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that the decision was made by 99 votes to four abstentions and one against. Secondly, since this proposal has been accepted, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Please engage. Same point. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is the same but first voted on a proposal to set up an investigative committee as a previous issue, so if the proposal is accepted then the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee is voted on. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that with 100 votes for and 4 abstentions, a decision on the establishment of an investigative committee has been taken. It should be determined and this will be a later agreement with the clubs, propose a composition of the investigative committee. We'll have that next week.
