ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32438	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, on behalf of the Government, I would like to thank you for the trust you showed us yesterday by voting on the amendments and additions of the departments and the work of the ministries. And I want to present today three new members, i.e. two new and one previous member of the government that we propose to the Croatian Parliament. Well, here is Mr. Damir Polancec, whom we propose to vice-president of the Croatian Government, is a man who comes from the economy, from Podravka administration and after leaving Vice-President Hebrang and Foreign Minister Zuzula to whom here from a pay phone in this House I want to thank him for his work so far, for his successful work in the government, for his good work in the government. It must have been two people who have helped significantly in the past period to achieve Croatia, that the Croatian government has achieved the important goals that we have outlined in the first year. So I want to thank them, but we took advantage of leaving, unfortunately for the health reasons of Vice President Hebrang who is forced to do everything because he is in such a health situation that he must primarily take care of health and executive power is such that indeed a man must have more than practically 12 hours a day at his disposal. So with great regret but also optimism, we accepted the decision of the Vice-President of the Government, he is returning to the Croatian Parliament, but we have taken advantage of this situation in order to strengthen what we believe is that after we have brought Croatia to the threshold of the European Union, we need to strengthen this activity, and that is the economy, so that the new Vice-President of the Government, when the Parliament today gives him confidence, will not have a special portfolio, but will be the point in the government that will receive all the initiatives of course with me, with the Minister of Economy and other economic resources, which will be devoted in full terms of these words to the activities and work of the Government to raise the standards of Croatian citizens because this is the most important, of course, these external political objectives, the most important objective of the government. Polancec was born on 25 June 67 in Koprivnica, graduated from the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb and a large part of his working council, although he was still young, spent the last 5 years in Podravka as a member of management, a member of the administration. And we think that he's bringing into the government, one right now, one breath from the economy, that he knows what the problems are in the economy, and together with us, these problems will be successfully solved. So please show him your support. Master Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, the current Minister of European Integration, has done his job outstandingly, and I think it was neither in the ruling coalition nor in opposition to those who would not be satisfied with the work, we also heard yesterday in a debate of various clubs commending the minister's account. I am and I am convinced that, and otherwise, she will spend her entire working life except for one short period at the Ministry of Science in foreign affairs on various diplomatic duties, in diplomacy and in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself, surely it is one of the most experienced Croatian diplomats, as well as a politician who has shown in the past year that she has been able to promote Croatian national interests when it comes to bringing Croatia closer to European integration. Therefore, I would also ask Master Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic to show his confidence in this new duty, a responsible duty in which all foreign political activities will be united but in which the new Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration will have the task of saying so yesterday to the Croatian public, that he is also in the Croatian public having a debate on the benefits, on the pluses and minuses of Croatia's entry into the European Union. And in the end, please also ladies and gentlemen, and I present to the doctor, Dr. Neven Ljubicic, whom we propose as Minister of Health and Social Care. Neven Ljubicic was born on 1 May 1963 in Nin, near Zadar. He graduated from medical school, went to medical school, completed his postgraduate studies. And in this government, he acted as assistant minister. Dr. Crescent. Ljubicic has experience in practice as well as in science at the university. This is about a man who, in his former work with Vice President Hebrang and the Minister of Health so far, has shown not only high expertise but also knowledge of the resources he has been in, and has been in charge of the Ministry's health system. And I am convinced that, as a new minister, coming from the resort but in the portfolio before that, from the practice itself that the system knows that it will behave impeccably and to the benefit of Croatian health care and all those who include the concept of social care because it is indeed important areas of our lives. The Croatian Government after 14 months, ladies and gentlemen, after a successful 14 months, was forced to go into this small reconstruction, but I'm sure we will, as some of us did yesterday, have the same number of ministers in the government. This allowed us, therefore, to join the ministries, but also to separate the former Deputy Prime Minister from the post of Minister of Health and Social Care, to allow us to get exactly if you want this new quality to be the Deputy Prime Minister for the Economy, it will be appointed to the economy. We only propose him as Deputy Prime Minister because that's what the law says, but after that I'm going to charge him to take over the economic portfolio and coordinate all economic activities in the government. So we're winning, I'd say a new quality. Finally, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament I call once again on all clubs regardless of political orientation to support ministers because it is indeed about young, quality people who have proven themselves in politics, the other in the economy, and I am sure that from three new ministers or two new and one old, but by taking over a new portfolio, we are getting stronger contributions for the even better and more successful work of the Croatian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32439	I thank the Prime Minister, Evey Sanader. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32440	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable Vice President and Minister, the distinguished Mr. MPs. This is where we choose three new members of the government. Vice-President for the Economy, who comes from one of the largest Croatian companies, Foreign Minister or Minister of Health. Apart from Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, we do not know Mr. Damir Polancec or Mr. Neven Ljubicic. As much as we don't have the moral right to say an ugly word for the person mentioned. Finally, at least not one ugly word written in any Croatian media has appeared about them so far. What's he gonna say? That maybe, to make a little joke, they're not even aware of what they're getting into. That they're not aware of what they're taking over. They were happy until they were at the top of politics, although I have no doubt they were not very well positioned in HDZ. After this appointment, like all of us, to express myself, their guts will be dug up. They will regret the day they replaced their well-paid jobs with ministerial functions. They'll have significantly less income. Forgetting, I can forget any severance or management contract, the clear people would say is not all about money or schools, but it is also time to break those prejudices about Croatian politicians. How will IDS be set? For political, ideological reasons, we cannot support ministers. So we have to vote against it. That's what we're gonna do. But I'm going to do the same thing I said during yesterday. The IDS wants this government, as it has wanted each and every future Croatian government to succeed. The government's failure will be the failure of the entire Croatian policy whether it be the ruling one or the opposition one. The government's failure will be Croatia's failure as a whole. And that is why I truly want the new ministers to succeed because those who come after them will be incomparably easier to work than they will. That the change of government will take place after the next parliamentary elections, I have no doubt. I want every success one more time, but the IDS policy can't support the ministers. Foreign Minister. I agree that it is a compromise on the internal political scene, and on the European one as well. She is an absolutely acceptable candidate at least for the IDS Club, and I believe for other opposition parties as well as for European diplomats. But only two words about the foreign ministry. Now, if there was going to be integration, mergers with European integrations, that's what I was talking about yesterday. However, it should be reiterated that when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was in crisis over the position in which Mr. Zuzul, the European Integration Ministry, led by Mrs. Kolinda-Grabar Kitarovic, played a crucial role in our court. The IDS wants the Gotovina case resolved, so Croatia begins negotiations 17.3. I want the Minister or all of us together to convince the world, I don't know, that as Americans, the British cannot reach Bin Laden at this time, and neither can Croatia reach Gotovina. If negotiations start on 17.3. it will definitely be a sign that Croatia has gone politically, to put it that way, from the Balkans, if not in any case, we will share their deadlines. Secondly, the IDS expects the foreign ministry to try to conclude with neighbouring Slovenia so-called. a double tax avoidance agreement. Why? Because Croatian pensioners who spent part or whole working life in that country today are in a post-2004 situation to tax their pensions with 16 and 33%, respectively, and to lose a large part of their income which was not the case until the end of last year. For me, border issues don't have to, but I can wait unlike these existential ones. It doesn't matter if these "price" permits are trucks where I'm afraid we'll get a shorter ending, whether it's the Ljubljana Bank or this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32441	Please limit yourself to the subject of specific candidates for ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32442	I have nothing to say about candidates but I am speaking among other things about what they are, all in all unless I am allowed to speak once again our political stance is clear. I wish the government every good thing. I want normal relations to change in relation to the Croatian economy, health care, some shifts are when the economy is done. Exports have increased, however, despite the reduction in external debt and the external debt, and thus will certainly have the most, most problems in the future. All in all, I wish you every good in further work.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32443	Thank you very much. HNS club, PGS's respected representative, Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32444	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think it would be a good idea if we appointed new members of the government to bring out some elements of the implementation of the government's programme. It happens very rarely in this House, and it would be good and it would be normal. I suppose that the candidates presented their programmes to the President, the Prime Minister, but it would be good for the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public to hear something about it. Mr. Prime Minister, I've been appointed Minister along with all the other ministers. The defence ministry programme was therefore presented by the Prime Minister. But when ministers are named in particular, it would be good, therefore, to have their programmes so that something and the public, or the Croatian Parliament, hears about how they intend to implement the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme. For much less important places to develop detailed programs, elaborate, and for becoming a minister you can actually not at least publicly at least to the parliament of which you agreed to present any programme. I don't think that's good practice. When candidates for ministers or candidates for Deputy Prime Minister have not done so, I think we should say something about what future gentlemen in the Government of the Republic of Croatia are facing. It is difficult to avoid the fact that yesterday happened, which is the merger of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of European Integration. I don't think that's part of a good move. The foreign ministry is much wider in terms of foreign policy than the European Integration Ministry. On the other hand, in terms of the overall policy, the European Integration Ministry is much wider than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The European Integration Ministry should increasingly and more be the ministry dealing with internal policy issues, not foreign policy issues. In fact, this ministry should be a ministry that directs and coordinates not only foreign policy but all internal political efforts to join the European Union. In this respect, it should be a steering same as the supervisory body, the Government of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I fear that this solution that we achieved yesterday or adopted here in the Croatian Parliament will not be a good solution. And that the previous solution was much better, especially since institutions that function well should not be touched. And the Ministry of European Integration really worked well. However, this is, of course, the dominant issue of the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that is, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. As far as health resorts are concerned, one of the most difficult resistors is probably in a long time ahead of us in Croatia, it would be good to hear how the candidate for minister intends to resolve some of the issues. His predecessors were mostly involved in the bloating of debts and responsibilities of the former government. For a whole year, it actually went through the fact that it was only troublesome what was being done by the previous government. If it's been a year, I hope it can't and won't be. It's time to start talking about what looks like. Often in a very problematic way, collecting pears and apples. In order to demonstrate the responsibility of the former government, I hope that it will not be a technique to continue the work of the new minister. A very important project by the former government and the previous minister has actually been exhausting himself in challenging or revoking former government projects and unfortunately is being questioned if it has not been annulled. And this is a project to modernise the hospital system in the Republic of Croatia. Which is welcome accepted at the level of all counties of the Republic of Croatia. Started an active few counties. And then stopped where the preparations had already begun where the funds had been spent, the project was, unfortunately, interrupted by the former minister's decision or, still current Minister Hebrang. It would be good to hear what the Minister of Health thinks about the project. It is one of the most important and far-reaching projects of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who was warmly accepted by the county or county leadership regardless of whether they belong to HDZ, then the ruling coalition, or to today's ruling coalition. It is indeed a great shame and it would be good to hear what the health minister thinks about it, so that MPs in particular could show him confidence in the opposition. The question, of course, is how will the health minister deal with the issues of serious financial problems in the health sector, regardless of whether they are at the root of a year, from ten years ago, or 15 years ago. The fact is that the debts of the Ministry of Health, i.e. the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance are growing and higher. That the average duration of late payment is over 300 days. Which is, of course, contrary to the country's laws, these are issues that would be good to hear about how the health minister will handle them. Unfortunately, on these very important issues for the operation of this resort we have not had the opportunity to hear anything here. And finally, the question is more important than all these issues that we've talked about, and that's the issue of the economy. The people should welcome the question that a young man coming from the economy will be the vice-president of the government for the economy. That fact should certainly be welcomed. But I think it can be interpreted as a government recognition that she hasn't done much in a segment of the economy in the past year or 14 months. Last year, the government has decided to invest 2 or 3 billion kuna in our opinion of guilty social projects. Instead of investing them in the development of the economy, it will be difficult to make up for. This will be difficult to make up for because the Republic of Croatia does not have many times two or three billion each. And that money is, as you know, a permanent commitment from this country. Written in our laws, and there will be a difficult situation not only for these governments but for every other government that it acquired rights by our last year's decisions, the decisions of this House will be questioned. Of course, it automatically reduces the space for the functioning of persons or persons in government in charge of the economic development of the country. And this is, of course, a big problem to say that over the past years or so, last year and on a segment of very important actually crucial for the development of the economy that privatisation has come to a standstill. The government has addressed social issues, by reprivatisation, and this means by stateing certain companies that have already been privatised. Of course, it happened with the company as you know Pic Valpovo, Željezara Sisak, recently it was the Goricanka case. So instead of dealing with some issues, social tensions are actually solved by reprivatisation or statehood. Which, of course, is not a point and is not a perspective cannot be the future of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. The vice-president of the economy will have a very demanding job in this regard. For all these reasons I've been talking about. I hope that no one argues that the economy is actually a prerequisite for all policies and social policies not only for development but also for social policies. The question is how much support he will have from the Prime Minister, i.e. the government as a whole. If he doesn't have it, he won't be able to do his job. He will of course have to enter the privatisation segment, which will not be easy. Social policy I was just talking about. It's a matter of finance. And unless the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy has strong support from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Government as a whole, he will unfortunately not be able to do much. So these are our basic thoughts about how we should actually go into representation in the reconstruction of the government, what we have on the agenda here today. For all these reasons, of course, because we are an opposition party, we will not be for candidates for the Prime Minister, or Vice-President of the Government. But because these people under very difficult circumstances in which they operate should be given some opportunity to club representatives of HNS and PGS will be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32445	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32446	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, here's a brief statement of our views on what two MPs have presented on behalf of the IDS and the PGS clubs. No doubt about it. Libra's gone, okay. First of all, when it comes to the merger of the ministries, although I believe we discussed it extensively enough yesterday. But since some of the thesis that we had yesterday was repeated yesterday I hoped and convinced I had killed, and not to be left without an answer today because I think that the Croatian public is looking here too I will say very clearly and responsibly, the merger of these two ministries can only benefit the government and Croatia. It is about bringing together two ministries that overlapped in their work, because the foreign minister and the foreign ministry in every government, not only in mine but in the previous and the one before and in much of their work and in its work, and in its work in European integration. So what was the role of foreign minister rather than just promoting Croatia as a candidate for the European Union and lobbying in the member states of the European Union for Croatia, to join full membership. Well, you're not gonna tell me that the Foreign Minister was doing something else, not that. He worked secondly, covering the whole world and all other multilateral organisations and bilateral relations with other countries outside the Union. Now here comes this objection. But the European Integration Ministry must concentrate on the domestic scene. That's right. But by connecting, you don't lose that function. All the entire European Integration Ministry, so the composition of the people, the workings, the administrations as they were set up, remain and do so. However, everything from one place is coordinated. That's what we think gets important in quality, important in strength. Yesterday, when Mr. Kovacevic said on behalf of HSP that HSP proposed it a year and a few months ago, then it should be said that and then it would certainly be a good proposal. At the time, however, we felt that this work should continue so that the HDZ and the new government should not do so at the time because it was prejudice, because it was prejudice that was widespread and from some rounds of today's opposition that if HDZ wins, adio Europe. And the opposite happened. That's why we didn't want to send the wrong political message at first. We wanted to prove our work, by acting this government not adio Europe but a good day of Europe, with the new government. And it happened as I said on the trip, in the three-step, however you want, Croatia has come to the threshold of Europe. April avis, June candidate status, December date of the start of negotiations. And now, of course, we're fighting to start negotiations on March 17th. I'm going to say what you said yesterday, that's true, responsibility is with the government. To continue the process of approaching the European Union and to start negotiations. All criteria from Copenhagen to those specific to Croatia's political criteria must be met by the government and the responsibility is on it. And here we do not take off our responsibility but I am sure that by joining these two ministries, efficiency in this particular segment will be even better and coordination between foreign policy activities in the approximation of the Union and domestic activities in promoting European values, which are why we want to join the Union that it will be even better coordinated and even stronger. So don't lose yourself, Mr. Representative, I'm deeply convinced you don't lose anything from the past, and you've commended all the work you've done so far, both the ministers and the ministries that have been doing well on the continuum, that work. Thus, nothing will be lost, and even more will be obtained in quality because one man will coordinate all these affairs and manage them. And that it is not difficult, that it is not too much of a task, because there were also these remarks yesterday, so we have as much opportunity as you want in other European countries both large and small. Some of the countries that were members of the Union or who entered the Union did not even have a special ministry but had one office at the premiere for European integration. According to what we're doing now, some big story, I don't think there's any need. Let's look over Croatia's borders a little bit, see if this is even if you will, and one specific solution that unification may be the best European experience. Therefore, the titles of the new ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration are certainly for me at the moment, and the unification of these two ministries is extremely good and beneficial for Croatia. What we will do with the work of the ministry once Croatia is a member of the European Union, we will discuss this when it happens. Maybe then we split up, start an office especially when we move because it won't be so necessary to work on jobs because we will achieve the goal and enter the Union, but these are some future times. For the time being, I think the message is strong both towards Europe and the local public, and it is now gaining strength from the pro-European orientation of Croatia. And in that sense, I'm sure that we made a good decision, I felt it necessary to react as Prime Minister who suggested it, but since we discussed it yesterday, I don't think there's any need to open such a topic anymore, but please, I'm prepared to answer any other questions if it's in the debate. And secondly, the appointment, namely my proposal for Vice-President of the Government of Polancec, who will not have a portfolio, will only be in charge of dealing with the economic aspects of government work and coordinating economic resors, surely we are getting quality. And it's not a confession that it hasn't been good so far, it's no recognition of defeat, Mr. Representative. But the fact is that so far, the Deputy Prime Minister has successfully acted on both our duties and we felt it should be acknowledged that it is difficult to replace Hebrang, and that we have used this situation which well coincided with the merger of the two ministries that we have one ministry less but that it remains the same number of ministers. We released, so we could go to a solution to appoint one of the current ministers as Deputy Prime Minister, give him another difficult task with his portfolio. There was also this variant of thinking, but we decided on this variant, and we hold that exactly Mr. Polancec as a man who comes from the economy and from everyday life who knows what economic problems these are and big businesses like Podravka, but who torture the economy as a whole in Croatia, who can and knows for sure and with foreign partners talk because he was in charge of foreign markets and international relations, if I may say so. I'm sure that's how we get a new quality. If you want, this reconstruction of the government has unfortunately happened because, therefore, it was two resignations that had to happen, but then from that situation, we certainly did from that fact what was best for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32447	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32448	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP club is clear that the Prime Minister has the right to choose his associates. But both the Prime Minister and the Constitution and all others are responsible for the work of both government as a whole and their associates. Therefore, in these situations, the appointment of ministers or we do not want to interfere with human policy or speak to one or the other because it is a matter and the right of the Prime Minister because he is responsible for the entire government and ministers. I'm not going to speculate on behalf of the HSP Club whether the future vice-president of the government, according to those references we have now, will mean the resume will be able to act on that duty. Will the future health minister be able to act on that duty? I guess time will show their work, too, if they're capable of it. We had a lot of situations where we pointed out, let's say for the Director of the Poa that he wasn't capable, so it proved true. We do not want to speculate now, but I think it would be more appropriate in these occasions for them to turn to the Croatian Parliament and briefly say what their basic indications of the programme are, which I can do, especially for the Vice-President of the Government for Economy because it comes, however agronomically, comes from a large company true, but the problem is likely to occur in this part of the state administration because it is a very different situation when someone comes, although it is good to come from the economy but this part should also be done for the state administration, so is the Minister of Health. But this means that the situation is clear for us and be sure that although we do not want to interfere or want to interfere in part of the appointment of ministers, we will closely monitor and criticise you and we will be the voice of the Croatian public for all the mistakes you are making or for anything you do not do, and it is in the interest of the Croatian people. So in the current situation, we need to be aware that our government is destabilized. We have been destabilized by the government since Minister Zuzul's resignation. We know what that means when the minister is leaving outside to negotiate. We have seen for ourselves that many suddenly get sick, have colds and everything else because they think they don't talk anymore, because paying attention to the minister in the resignation isn't the same as the minister. So it's not the same weight, it's not the same credibility, and it's huge problems. Therefore, in terms of stabilising the Croatian government, and there are many reasons why it is now necessary to stabilise the Croatian government regarding this part of the negotiations, also concerning the state of the country in general, for the state of the economy, for the situation in the area of justice, for many other areas. We will support it, but I say we will be more than critical and will not allow you to act as future ministers in the way that the Croatian people expect, and for all others we have our government ready and with adequate experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32449	Thank you very much. Club representatives of HSLS and DC respected representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32450	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. It is known in psychosocial dynamics that every idea has a certain period of incubation. Unfortunately, the incubation of political ideas in Croatia takes a long time, so it took us about 13 years to figure out how to reduce the government, connect or step together, those ministries that naturally have similar or almost identical activities in one ministry. To reduce the generally bulky apparatus of the state administration, and this government may have incubated something earlier, I can say successfully this idea that it is absolutely unnecessary to have two ministries that are actually dealing with the same affairs and which, by their nature, have to cover the activity of what is, in some ways, a fundamental task as well as a fundamental focus of the government. We've practically had this condition so far, ladies and gentlemen. The prime minister, who said by his vote, according to his habitat, is more foreign ministers, fully aware that today is the job of the Croatian prime minister to visit, visit and talk in all the leading European and global metropolises, so in the centres of power, we also had a foreign minister and also a minister of European integration. Practically the same activity we somehow covered both the prime minister and two other special ministries. So I think it's a good thing that we're doing this, and I think it's a good thing that Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic is going to be the new foreign minister, because I think she's successfully and competently done the duties of the Minister of European Integration so far, and then it's natural that even when we're getting together, we're bringing these two ministries together to connect her with her person at the head. As HSLS and DC, we warned that it was not good for the Deputy Prime Minister to be that and Hebrang, however, perhaps because of the fact that Professor Dr. Andrew Hebrang runs both health care and the economy. It's really about two of the two most burdened resolutions, it's about two areas of social life, which are in a causally effective relationship and a causally effective relationship, because we all know that healthcare generates the biggest consumption, that healthcare generates a constant increase in debt, that health generates little and indifference, and that we can't finance health from current incomes, but on the other hand, what we could have done to a greater extent could cover these debts, the economy is also, unfortunately, not in this year and a half of the government at least according to all those and government projections that were at the beginning of the programme, plotted, so we haven't been able to run. So we think and warned that one person will not be able to successfully cover two such important areas and at this point it seems only logical and completely justified that these two important areas, these two resolutions, are divided, that we have a person who will fully commit himself to health precisely because healthcare generates debts and that we have on the other hand a person who will fully devote himself to the coordination of all economic activities because I repeat once again as much as the prime minister may not admit it, we cannot be satisfied with the state of the Croatian economy. Look at today's indicators, statistics, so official statistics. We are still at around 75% of pre-war industrial production and despite the fact that industrial production grew something last year 3.5% that is still far, far below what I expected not to say that I would say to light years away from what we should achieve if we were to enter the European Union ready. It seems to me, therefore, that we will have a person who will be fully or solely in charge of coordinating economic activities. It is good that we finally have in the government and a person who comes directly from the economy, so the person who was in charge of co-operation in Southeast markets and for cooperation in Podravka, therefore, in one company for cooperation with abroad. Unfortunately, we have also warned in this government of course that all ministers were still too few people who had just been in their professional careers in some way in charge or engaged in relations, economic relations with abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, if Croatia does not achieve and already projected, but also the desired steps right in exporting, in encouraging foreign investment, but also in encouraging domestic investment, we will be a country that will remain at this level of economic growth and will continue to be a country that by 2010 or we can also say the desired entry into the European Union around 2009 or 2010, there will be no more than 80% of pre-war industrial production, that we do not say that, despite the fact that I do not know here by these statistical indicators 16% of the increase in exports and still the coverage of exports is 48%. That's insufficient, that's something that's a great burden to this government, and that's why I think that although here's Mr. Polancec staying for two years maybe or a little over two years of this term, I think he'll really need to do a miracle if it's even possible to do that. So I think these are welcome changes, and I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't support them. It would be good to end up putting the prime minister on the soul if it wasn't happening anymore, you know, if someone went into surgery just because it was or above all about the minister who ran both health and the economy and we don't have a head and responsible man in charge of those three resistors for practically 3 months. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is about... , if it is health problems, if it is about someone having to go into surgery or that they must, of course, pass the reconvalescence procedure, then I think that the prime minister and then the duty of our legislature is precisely to react immediately, to choose others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia has no time and 3 months you can play with time and the patience of Croatian citizens. I don't think that's a good thing, and that's a long way to go in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32451	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32452	Mr. President, all I wanted to do was to correct Mr. Chehok's allegations that this government had first incubated the idea of the need for human resources to be rationalized by the government. Yesterday in the debate, we realized that this was not true, that this government of 160 government officials who were in the government a year ago increased that number to 198. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32453	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32454	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I have to look back as Prime Minister on several moves that spoke about the economy as well as the respected representative, President of HSLS of the Czech Republic. But before that and Mr. Doric, we will give very precise information and see the comparison. The fact is, in these 14 months, there are several thousand people in the state budget less than there were in the past government. So we'll give you very precise information. ... Yeah, yeah, sure, and they're on the budget. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Department of Defense. As for the ministries and the number of ministries, I'll say it one more time, I'll say it one more time. We cannot in Croatia, if you represent the thesis, please when you win elections form the government and the number of ministries supported by the majority then, if you get the next elections. But we can't pretend crazy in Croatia and close our eyes to the fact that everyone in Europe, including the largest countries, doesn't have as many or as few ministries, to a more elastic and slim administration, and we're going to keep here 20 or 19 ministries as the government did. Well, you're not gonna tell me that's better than we have today. And 13 ministries, ladies and gentlemen, are quite suitable for Croatia. Of course, of course we'll get the rest of it, so we're starting with the head, we're going to reform the state administration, and we're going to see how many less people there are going to be in the ministry. But what we did, and I can say it for the first time here in the House of Commons, after these 14 months of government, we have made very careful analyses and I can tell you that there is no, that maybe one of our and the tricks that we often deal with in both the public and the political life that there are too many employees in the administration in Croatia. When we say that, we don't know if it's about the state administration or whether it's about local and regional self-government. It's a big question and it needs to be distinguished. We had this as a topic on one GSV, the Economic Social Council where all the social partners are and I have to say when we presented this information and footage of the situation, that others agreed and that these were also their evaluations of the situation in the number in the administration. But to get back to the economy. Mr. Chehok is right, you need to put an emphasis on the economy. But ladies and gentlemen, this particular data that Mr. Chehok presented today, which is also Croatian media, which is the data presented by the Statistical Institute, is exactly what they say about this government having an external and economic accent. Because for the first time, the trend of exports and imports has changed. And how do you change it? It's drastic. 17% increased exports this year, i.e. last 2004 and 5% of imports. Therefore, not only has the trend changed but it has dramatically changed in favour of exports. The fact that that export covers 48% you're right there, Mr. Agent. Imports and it's still small, but until the other day, until a year ago, he covered 43%. So the jump is 5%. Therefore, it is one trend that is good, which we must move on and we cannot change it in one year, nor can anyone change it to cover exports with complete imports. As far as imports are concerned, we need to take care of this, especially food imports, to import anything, to import boffle goods, etc. And we need to step up and it's the Ministry of Finance's order, especially the Customs Department to take special care of, but also the Tax Administration and around the import, etc. Industrial production growth is also noticeable. I must say that we found, when you mentioned how we should continue exporting, that we found, and it was not better in the past government, not only in this past but also in the one before it, it means in the two last governments, the Agency for the Promotion of Investments and Exports. We found this agency with one employee and one secretary. And today I can say that we've come already, and we're just finishing a process in which, as for the first half of the year, we've given the goal of hiring 13 people in that agency that's been running for the last 4.5 years, we haven't worked on it. And I will remind you that some of the countries that are in our Southeastern neighbourhood and at economic level, but also on the European Union's accession plan are far behind us, so they are on the agenda for the work of promoting, investing and importing, exports and have agencies with a much larger number of people working on it. We have also stepped up the work of economic diplomacy. In every embassy so far, unfortunately, we may not have had enough human potential. He may have been one man or two at most as an economic adviser. From now on, they will do a lot more, but what we have achieved this year gives absolute reasons for being satisfied and that we can expect better and stronger export growth. And I repeat again once again, what he's covering 48% today is of course small, but until a year ago he was covering 43%. So, we have to move on, I think it's precisely with the choice and support we're going to give you, which I'm still looking for, to this government, to these new ministers, especially the vice president of the economy, that we're going to get even more at work, on this plan that's already good today. It's not satisfactory because people can ask a question, and as far as we're concerned about good exports, what will the Export and Investment Agency have 15 people instead of yesterday's 2? As far as industrial production is concerned, as far as tourist season is concerned, it's far better than it's ever been in Croatia, and will that be reflected in our pocket? It will. Because all macroeconomic indicators that go positively must also be reflected in the pocket of an ordinary Croatian citizen, consumer, our people. Is there a problem? There is. We know them all. The problems are external debt, the problems are the unemployment rate, but we're going to, so we're doing everything we can to stop and stop the devastating growth of the external debt that was in 2003. And as for the unemployed for the first time in four, five years, she fell below 300 grand, now she's up again for the season, of course. We'll try to keep the number of unemployed below 300 grand this year and keep it going. Therefore, I think that the economic indicators are absolutely good, that it is going in the right direction to further strengthen this doubt and that this will certainly be reflected in the pocket of Croatian consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32455	Thank you. The club of HDZ MPs, respected Vice-President Luka Bebic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32456	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister, fellow MPs. I will say a few words perhaps unusually about one aspect of this agenda point that we have here this morning, namely, it does not matter what message we send through the appointment of ministers to Croatia and the world public. When we look at our three proposed candidates, then we see that this is about young people who have already been affirmed in a relatively short lifetime who have shown extraordinary abilities in jobs they have done so far or in the government as Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic or in an economy or in their medical profession as Mr. Ljubičić. We send a message to both youth and abilities and optimism. Let's just remember the performances of Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović and the international plan and the Croatian public at both the Croatian Parliament and Croatian TV and elsewhere, we can say that this was the performance of the person who is ruling the matter he is talking about, who knows and who is confident in what he is saying. It is important to be convinced of what he is saying, which represents and it is abundant, so to speak, that the public is buried both with us and in Europe, Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. For this year and a few days in the government, she has shown her competence, knowledge and ability. As for Mr Polancec, I am particularly pleased that by the profession of agro-economyist, a man who knows a large part of the economy, the Croatian on which one of these basic foundations of the Croatian economy is based, and through the Podravka and through the markets that he knew and developed, especially in the southeast or eastern Europe, he also has adequate knowledge and proper knowledge of one other segment of the Croatian economy where Croatia may be at the very top, which is Belupo, or the drug industry, the pharmaceutical industry. Mr Ljubicic, who also worked at the university and clinic as a successful doctor in his profession, and at the Ministry for this time for which he was assistant minister also showed knowledge of the health system, which is very important for the future and development of health care as an important branch of Croatia, in Croatian society. So my personal thought is what to say on behalf of the HDZ Club we're ordering optimism, youth, knowledge and ability. We will be able to assess this in particular very quickly and so far it is correct to give support to young and capable people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32457	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32458	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, I hope that my colleague Luka Bebic did not announce his own demission, given these attributes he spoke to about the proposals. But to joke aside, I would agree with my colleague Cain who said that it wasn't a good policy that made it worse, even when you were in opposition. But the same is true, and vice versa, that it is not good to insist that we live better, we are not yet aware of it, obviously we need to have a sense of measure and be aware of both the political economic and social moments we are in. When I say that it is not a desirable policy at all to make it worse, I would say that it cannot be a matter of what this current government will leave to the future government, although in opposition you have the legitimate right to hope that you will win some of the next elections and it cannot be any difference to you as to what the situation in society will be, in the economy whether it will be arranged or not. And on the other hand, it really should be agreed that every government is only a good government that provides the greater number of citizens with a safer and happier life. And I think that regardless of what position we're in today in the Parliament. I remember a few years ago during one of the government's reconstructions that I told then Prime Minister Racan that his government was condemned to succeed. The opposition then, and the current president of the parliament, he was replicating me and he did not see it, or he did not agree that every government should be condemned to success and succeed. However, it is obviously not easy to be a prime minister, it is like a coach in sports, in football in handball, that certain players who play weaker or who do not meet the need to change them. Too many changes actually testify to a complete uncertainty, uncertainty, which is why the change should also teach with a lot of sense of tact and measure, and in some ways prepare well. This reconstruction was announced about a month ago, it was extorted by some objective and some subjective reasons but what is impregnable, and it is certain that perception in public is not satisfied with our economic situation, our economic situation. We can now really say whether it was the happiest or most subtle solution to the choice of Minister Hebrang to cover such complex resources as health and the economy, but it seems to me right now that we are driving on some of the times insisting that we are better and that we are not yet aware of it but obviously that these shifts, this improvement does not come about as quickly as our citizens would like. On the other hand, they also say that it is not polite to talk about people who are not familiar enough. In the first row here is thought of a colleague of Polancec and a colleague of Ljubic. But since we don't belong to civil decency policy and there doesn't have to be some virtue and there's something to be said about these people too, or there's something to be said, it has to be said loud and clear that important shifts are expected both in the economy and in the health care sector. That this perception in health care must change as a cost, that every democratically stable and normal country must make sure that health care must invest, that it cannot and must not be treated as a cost and that some reforms are necessary, but that these reforms must not go beyond the number of people who are significantly poor, who are socially unprotected and that each government must take care of them, and that this reform I say cannot go to their expense. And finally as a liberal couple of excellents, I would have read a brief quote by John Stuart Mill from his book on the representative government that was written more than 150 years ago, where the beautiful stand stands "in general the one standing at the head of a executive cabinet is simply a politician. He can be a good politician and a man of credit. And where it's usually not so government is bad. I want to believe that these three people are good politicians, and people of credit, and that they're really going to work on that to make us all better. But now Mill continues, with his ability and knowledge, which he should have in the general interests of the country, only by chance will the appropriate expertise be brought together on those branches of business he has run. It is therefore necessary for professional advisors to be assigned to him. And I think it's actually one of the essential elements of any government, as well as this as much as that logistics, logistics is in the function of those people who are just and simply politicians and people. And here we're actually opening up a very, very important topic that is necessary, which will be opened at that time, which is that in every change these professional advisors don't change, that these people are guaranteed stability, and they're given this very professional status, and not that, on every change, this very professional part, these people who are going to be logistics, these people that they actually come, that we're facing the uncertain future, and that simply because they change or the minister or government they just have to go away. In that sense, we must soon open this topic in that part of the government that has to do its job... I think you should listen. ... [[speaks off, can't be heard]] And so. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] I would pray that these guys who are having this kind of fun who John Stuart Mill is obviously unknown, that they should simply be reprimanded or reprimanded by the public. ... It's very interesting when we stand up for civil society, when we advocate certain rules of the game, and when we don't really respect these rules of the game ourselves from our own ignorance. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I know that John Stuart Mill probably gets in somewhere on the first semester and that some of them here should have absorbed it, but I'm not really guilty if it wasn't absorbed, and by the way, personally in his doctrine of calling him. In this very sense, this is not a speech for the government, I have made it very clear to the Prime Minister that I really cannot agree to... politics, politics that we live better if we are not aware of it yet. I respect every shift, you know that statistics can also be in the function of manipulation etc. but also what is some elemental political and civil decency, these people we can really agree on are young, able, to have certain pardon references, will be able to see on this plan. But I have just given a very clear message that regardless of all their qualities, without one very important fact that must be done long ago, which is that the government can function, that there is one team of people who will be well paid, who will have a sense of security, who will have a sense of that professional love and commitment to that job, that it is necessary and it is a message to this government, it does not mean that it is a priority for, but rather some cracks that are very important. Again it is very difficult to say, it is very clear, I think it is very clear to my colleagues that Podravka is not a state, that we really cannot put a sign of equality, that these are completely different parameters and criteria in the game and that these are all the things that will be faced and that will soon have to come before this Assembly with certain results or we will also, as we said now after a year and a half, say that we are not and can not be too satisfied. Yesterday it said in the paper that my colleague Ljubicic is a communicative man, who corresponds with the people who speak to him, and I can and must confirm it because it is indeed a fact. These are certain human guarantees that these people can be spoken of positively. But also if there is one important not understanding of what is actually quoted as John Stuart Mill saying, that is the problem of those who earn and who, who would very much gladly receive that doctrine, but are unable to even listen to it, let alone implement it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32459	Thank you very much. Your colleague Kramarić is right, one of the fundamental rights of John Stuart Mill is one essay on tolerance, listen to the opinion of the other without advocacy and on the freedom and tolerance of fellow Letica. There's one book, so you'll see it in her about tolerance. Correction, replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32460	Dear Mr. President, colleague Kramaric was saying something that I didn't say at all, I don't know if he was in the hall or wasn't in the hall. But I spoke from each other's point of view. The fact that someone was successful in a large company such as Podravka does not necessarily mean that they will be successful in acting as Deputy Prime Minister, from the point of view of whether the State Administration has its specifics, and Mr Kramarić as mayor should know what specificities they are. Then when you were talking about Miller, you should've mentioned Webber, so you'd get the whole picture, Max Webber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32461	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to go to the polls. Please prepare the keys. First, please? We'll determine the quorum first. Please engage to determine the quorum. I'm asking for a result. 110 MPs and MPs are in the assembly, we have a qualified quorum. Now, first, I would like to vote in line with the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia for a decision to show confidence in Damir Polancec, vice-president of the Government to show confidence. The majority of votes required by all MPs, at least 77 votes in accordance with Article 109. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 84 votes for, 34 abstentions and 2 votes against the Croatian Parliament, he expressed confidence in Damir Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister... I am voting in line with the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the decision to show the trust of Master Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, foreign minister and European integration. [[Applause]] Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. Score. I find that with 84 votes, 34 abstentions and 1 against, the Croatian Parliament has expressed confidence in Master Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration... I give the vote, in accordance with the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, of the decision to show confidence to Dr Neven Ljubic, Minister of Health and Social Care. [[Applause]] Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Turn yourself in, please, what's the problem? Let's see why some MPs aren't working. [[No problem!]] Please, let's get back online and see if it works because some people don't. Did everyone get involved? Thank you. We can vote. Score. I find that with 83 votes for, 35 abstentions and 2 against the Croatian Parliament, he trusted Dr Neven Ljubic, the Minister of Health and Social Care. ... And now we will move on to the oath of members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause]] In accordance with Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure have been established in the manner in which the oath is made. According to that article, the President pronounces the text of the oath and thereafter calls upon the members of the Government who are standing up and saying their oaths. I'll read the text of the oath. I swear that I will exercise conscious and honorable conduct, respect the Constitution, laws and legal order, and advocate all progress made by the Republic of Croatia. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32463	I swear! ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32464	Foreign Ministers and European Integrations Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32465	I swear! ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32466	Thank you! Mr. Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32467	I swear! ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32468	Congratulations to the members of the Government on the trust shown to them by the Croatian Parliament and I wish them success in their work! ... 10 minutes off to congratulate the members and members of the government. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. It is on the agenda - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act, second reading P.Z. No 85; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security and Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. I ask State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Ivica Buconjic to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32470	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief because it is less the same or very similar text that you already had in your first reading, so I will only briefly count the changes that occurred in this text of the bill you have before you. In the meantime, after reading 1st, the Construction Act was also amended, so certain amendments to this Law were made to align that original bill with those changes to the Construction Act that occurred in the meantime. On the proposal of Mr Brletić, the word "cotary" in the article was also deleted. Since the wheel as a unit of local self-government no longer exists in the Croatian legal system. Then it was also respected that in the meantime a Law on Protection and Rescue was adopted and that a new State Protection and Rescue Administration was established so that, in those parts of the Fire Protection and Rescue Act, changes were introduced, where this new State Protection and Rescue Authority found its place in this fire protection system. Thereafter, a change was made in Article 4 which allowed them to be exceptional, that fire protection measures should be carried out and otherwise than is normally prescribed in those urban environments and in those areas where it is not possible to implement the usual measures prescribed, which is in particular Dubrovnik and other old historical cores where those usual prescribed measures cannot be implemented in the manner prescribed. It is also noteworthy that representatives of Arlovic are not subject to new expert examinations before the Commission but that fire protection inspectors should be recognised as having passed a professional exam before. The amendment was also made in Article 44 because of the fact that the Protection Act was passed from, the Protection and Rescue Act and that the State Protection and Rescue Authority began with January 1st and acted. It is also an observation that the initiative to write prison sentences in the range has been adopted. The first proposal was to write for 60 days. It is now accepted to write for 30 to 60 days. It is also accepted that a list of foreign regulations will become internal regulations. These are primarily technical regulations. It means that the list of foreign regulations is determined by the government, not the MUP as it was in the first proposal. Here is some 8 most important changes that occurred in this final text compared to that first proposal, or the first draft of the law that you had before you in the fall. I don't know, if there is any further need for any other clarifications or I can give further clarifications, although I say these are really some changes which are primarily the fruit of interventions or initiatives of individual representatives, clubs or parliamentary committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32471	Thank you. Committee rapporteurs, legislation, internal policy and national security, local and regional self-government. There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative of Sima Lucin, SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32472	Mr. President, State Secretary, the SDP Club will accept and vote in favour of this Final Proposal of this Law, given that it is a law that changes itself, only some of the issues related to construction are changed, and since the promoter has accepted, in our opinion, the important remarks that were in the first reading and which make a significant contribution that this Final Bill is much better than it was in the first reading. We are also pleased that the promoter has also announced that some of the things that were also mentioned in the first reading will be taken into account when a new law is being made. So the new Fire Protection Act, which has been announced, I believe that this opportunity will actually take care of all those other laws, that now I don't make them all out of fire and that, in a certain way, in many elements, components when it comes to handling, but also when it comes to entities, they need to be harmonised. I think it's a good thing that they're accepted, accepted, accepted proposals, say, that give certain possibilities that in small urban centres, in the old city's cores can therefore be treated specifically or deviated from certain conditions. Because you've had a situation, say, when you're going to adapt some space, then you can't get fire-fighting consent because let's just say one bow isn't and that height is because you can't get through a fire-fighting car. And at the same time, the Department of Protection and Construction doesn't give you the consent that you can increase that bow. I therefore certainly commend as well as, as well as the fact that one part of the issue which is in the first proposal, as the proposer himself, Mr. Secretary of State said, were intended to be resolved by the rules, that it would be resolved, that it would be dealt with by regulations. What I would now like to take advantage of may be that when a new law is being written on which it should, however, be taken into account, and that is, above all, a reduction in the time limit for issuing, so that the main project is in conformity with the conditions for fire protection. He is now for 30 days, and we believe in both the potential and the professions and the projects and everything that could be, could be much shorter because in the efforts we make to have an effective state administration, so if you want both regional and local, I think these, these kinds of efforts are important. We are holding this earlier, so that when the new law is passed, we should also consider accepting those proposals from the first reading, which is that these powers that are intended to be implemented by these laws can be transferred to private or natural persons who are licensed and trained for this job. I also think that in one part, since we now have this facility for, therefore, the protection and rescue administration in which I now seem to be engaged over 800 people so that both part of the burden that is being dealt with by these laws and some others should actually be transferred to that administration. Here's how much I'm repeating how I started, and so the SDP Club is going to support this final proposal, and we believe that the new law and this sort of thing in our way is either a dilemma or an open question that could contribute to a better quality of this law being taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32473	Thank you. The HSS Club, Honorable Agent Ante Markov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32474	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The final draft law amending and supplementing the law on fire protection constitutes a normative harmonisation of our legislation with the European Union's standards. First of all, with technical standards, but also with our existing legal legislation, first of all, the law on construction, changes and additions to the Construction Act and all those regulations that aim to resolve this matter more fully and better. We also said in the first reading of this Bill's proposal that it might be better and that the time in the future would show that this legislation would be needed and had to be resolved in full. And that, above all, these laws and laws should have a preventive character rather than a curative character. Because in nature, both the basic and the content and the main objective of this Law and the law that monitors this matter is to prevent and create those conditions that need to be answered in advance to the challenges and the tragic consequences that cause such phenomena as fires, natural disasters and all that is contained in this. I would share this part of the debate on this final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Act, which will be supported by the HSS Club in two parts. In the right part of regulation of legal norms, as Mr. Secretary of State said in part, certain remarks that existed in the first reading as well as doubts are a positive solution. And not in any way further strengthened and quality entrenched this text of the bill. However, I will remain on some of the shortcomings that we hold to be able and still can be significantly improved, but for the future, do not allow any other changes to bring this law under review. In Article 1(3), it is very discriminatory, which means qualification, each person is obliged to make sure that he does not cause a fire. It means every person has a duty to obey the law. Of course, but the law also exists to regulate certain obligations. And may be important actions that are the subject of the law. Furthermore, our observations that existed in the first reading and as regards Article 3 thereof concern Article 15a(6) of Article 6(2) and always speaks of the same thing. In fact, we constantly state when we want to specify which body is involved in certain procedures in the prevention of this, then we say the local authority of the police administration or the Ministry of the Interior. If there is a change of name, then we will also question this law. Why don't we put what we've proposed in place the authority of the interior ministry's founding unit. Therefore, if we were to position things like this and classify it as the jurisdiction of the interior ministry's founding unit, then we avoided the trap that, in the case of possible changes regarding the systematization and relations in the Ministry of the Interior, we avoid this. Furthermore, what is constantly underlining in the articles, which is in some way contrary to the State Administration System Act, is constantly said in Article 6(2), says that the Minister of Interior, with the previous opinion of the Minister of Civil Engineering, will adopt a regulation. But what regulation? What regulation? The regulations passed by the minister in charge have been classified in three forms. One rule is the other is an order and the third is not an instruction. I think it is good for precision and clarity in the law itself to determine who these are because it also appears in Article 15a, which also says that they will be special regulation. It is the task of the law that as soon as clear and unequivocal as possible, it shows what it will bring. Because we know that when legal acts are passed, there is a very big interference right now, they are making a variety of regulations, orders, instructions that need to be made to make it right, or that the law becomes enforceable. Furthermore, it is difficult to talk about the fire protection law rather than mentioning an institution that has been activated since 1.1 this year. And which makes up the roof institution which was based on the protection and rescue law should take over the competences, competences of coordination and overall action in terms of protection and rescue, in terms of regulatory relations, which should regulate and further combine and professional fire departments, voluntary fire companies. Civil protection systems, in one word one of the most important but also the most sensitive institutions that one society needs, were in the case of major natural disasters, fires, earthquakes and all that is happening today, unfortunately. Unfortunately, not all the officials of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue have yet to be appointed, and I think that as soon as possible, we should work and operationally bring into line exactly the State Protection and Rescue Authority which, as a roof institution, should be in fact a leader and should create all the preventive characters that come out of this or other law in order to make this very important social activity as best and as useful as possible. Also last year, it was already indicated that we will also pass a new law on fire that should reconcile and make a more quality relationship between voluntary fire companies the way they finance them, the way they operate, the role of voluntary fire companies. Clearly and professional fire departments, which still bear the greatest burden on themselves in elemental disasters. And in one word, this area requires a complete and unique solution because we know that the debate at 9 months after the fires of the summer that follow is one moaning over the fate that is repeated year after year. Where he argues or tries to defend some thesis. But right now it's time through the laws through legislation to come up with those solutions that I'm going to bring all the participants in these affairs together, which, by the number 112 that is here, is good that the function is good that we can achieve this unique calling number that needs to be answered all the questions. And that all the components that act through preventive and curative action in terms of saving all those accidents, accidents, natural disasters and everything that happens. To be a component of it. And not to say a single component such as the Mountain Rescue Service must rely on any resources from local self-government units. Here yesterday, the Croatian Tourist Board and the Ministry allocated some funds in a resolute manner. At one symbolic level that speaks more about how we have a relationship with these mountain rescue services that often surprise us three times a year with the strength of will and the results that they achieve in such original means that are simply ridiculous. This is why the HSS Club advocates a whole and new regulation, and of course through the State Protection and Rescue Authority, which should lay down all these dice that should result in one responsible system that will be and serve its basic function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32475	Thank you. HDZ representative club, respected representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32476	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act. These amendments to the Fire Protection Act seek to better regulate the area of primarily building buildings and thus to issue building permits as well as its compliance with the Construction Act. This should ultimately contribute to the speed and efficiency of the necessary documentation for construction, both in the process of adopting spatial planning documents and in the issue of local, construction and use permits. This bill also places the buildings in two groups according to the requirement of fire protection, which should ultimately help to obtain more quality data for demanding buildings for which fire protection equipment is required, which should ultimately facilitate the development of the main project, and thus speed up the project process itself. At the same time, a fire inspection is released and space is left for its basic business, which is to monitor the implementation of the safeguard measures. The promoter also defined very precisely who could do the fire protection elaborate, from the very professional preparation of the designer, his work experience, his professional examination, where it was mandatory to contain it in the programme itself and the area of fire protection. Also, only the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for the list of persons authorised to produce elaborates. It is also predicted that I am a special regulation minister prescribes the contents of fire protection elaborates, as well as the way in which the fires are given, extended and withdrawn. This would avoid the work being done by people who are not professional enough for the area and avoid any cases that I had the opportunity to experience myself as the head of the municipality when we entrusted a plan to build fire protection and a programme of measures for the municipality's unprofessional team. In the end, we could not get the consent, the needy consent of the Ministry of the Interior, and finally we had to look for a new maker. This is exactly the kind of solution you'd avoid. I have already mentioned that the law defines less demanding buildings from the point of view of fire protection, automatically it will also be easier to get a building permit, a simple and accelerated construction process. Here, it is very precisely defined in Article 2. Infringement responsibility of the arsonist, which is very important especially for our coasts and islands, but also for the interior, because we often witness fires due to the burning of weeds, especially in spring, so I believe that this provision will help make it less. The law also provides for the possibility of meeting the conditions of fire protection and in other ways than that prescribed by this law if its fulfilment is not possible for a particular reason. These are very common cases in old historical cores where it is impossible to secure access to fire trucks, or the very application of the terms of the arrangement would disrupt the appearance of objects that are often part of protected cultural heritage. The problem is often also to secure a hydrant network especially on dislocated buildings that are outside construction areas. Here the law leaves the possibility of getting rid of it in another way. This amendment will significantly speed up the process itself of issuing a building permit because the overall procedure will be conducted only in the Construction Office, while the MUP participates only when it is prescribed. So practically 30% of the buildings wouldn't be conducted in front of the MUP at all. There are also a number of alignments in this law that were necessary, so as to define infringements in the domestic currency. And I think that the quality of this proposal also contributed to the fact that the law went into two readings, so most of the proposals for representatives were both accepted and incorporated into this Final Proposal, which contributes to its quality. Due to all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support an amendment to the Fire Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32477	Thank you very much. The club of HNS representatives of PGS respected representative Srecko Ferenčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32478	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. Since the Republic of Croatia is a country facing numerous fires and huge damages caused by fires, especially in the summer months and especially in certain areas of the Adriatic hinterland, coastal and island, the proposed legislative changes would certainly enable better implementation of fire protection measures. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act is in line with the Construction Act. It is primarily in line with the part of the Construction Act relating to procedures relating to spatial planning and construction, i.e. the issue of local, construction or use of permits. What is achieved by harmonising the Fire Protection Act with the Construction Act is certainly a simplification of the process of obtaining a building permit, given that the administrative procedure would be conducted in one place, i.e. The national body responsible for works of construction, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, while as a body responsible for fire protection tasks, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction would participate only when prescribed. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the applicable Fire Protection Act shall coordinate the conduct of the Ministry of the Interior as a resolute state fire protection body in the adoption of documents, spatial arrangements and the issue of licences. Finally, the proposed legislative amendments also complement criminal provisions with a view to sanctioning and misbehavior. Penalties for arsonists have also been tightened. For all of these reasons, the club of representatives of HNS and PGS will support the final draft law amending and supplementing the law against fire, but we still expect one whole proposal to amend and supplement the Fire Protection Act and one full proposal to amend and supplement the Fire Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32479	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32480	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, let me put our position on behalf of the IDS Club briefly on the Fire Protection Act. Our club will support this law because we believe that its adoption highlights prevention as a basic form of fire protection. And the best prevention against the fires of different buildings covered by this law is precisely their construction, with the satisfaction of this legislation prescribed conditions of design and construction. In order to reduce the possibility of fires to the minimum possible extent and to avoid possible victims and material damages that can be significant to such an accent. Let's just think of the fires in the PUTO burner, where only with mere luck did not have more serious consequences for the health of a larger number of people. It should not be noted that this burner today would certainly not meet the requirements of the fire protection labs proposed by this law, and there are more and more such fires in Croatia, as everyone is trying as cheaply as possible to build their buildings often at the expense of the very security of the building. As a result, there may be fires that can cause great harm to our households and economies. For the illustration, I will state that in 2002 there were 2627 fires on buildings, and in 2003 that number increased to 3076. For this reason, the IDS club supports the introduction of a mandatory elaborate for demanding buildings that should only be designed for this authorized fire protection engineer, as a more quality solution than the existing one, because it gives the possibility of exactly the profession, i.e. An authorised fire protection engineer, not as a legal person registered to design, to take care of the design and construction of the facility. The IDS Club shall in particular support Article 1 of this Act, which states that each person is obliged to make sure that he does not cause a fire and which determines the criminal liability of each person if he causes a fire and is imposed or increases the penalties for the intentional or accidental cause of the fire. This should in particular be highlighted in light of the fact that, according to estimates, as many as 70% of the fires in the Republic of Croatia were caused by human negligence or negligence or by speaking in 2002 figures of 8052 fires, as many as 5933 fires were caused by a halt or negligence. In 2003, of 10791 fires, 7677 was caused by interruption or negligence. The IDS Club also supports the enhanced protection of our national parks in such a way as to give fire protection control inspectors in national parks and nature parks the authority of fire protection inspectors. This will strengthen control and supervision in our national parks and nature parks, and the Republic of Croatia must introduce other measures to protect our natural wealth from fires. What our club would like to warn, and which is not accepted from the first to this second reading, but which we would like to find in the announced new Fire Protection Act, is to warn it of the role of a fire department not mentioned in this second final bill, which we also think should have a place in this law in such a way as to give it the opportunity to attach its opinion on the built-up or at least in the worst case be able to have insight into the elaborate for a purely practical reason to go to put out a fire with basic information on building flooring, construction method, access, construction capacity etc. We also do not accept the reasoning of this law, one might say underestimating tone according to these fire communities, so let me quote where it is said about this particular proposal which was made by fellow MPs who requested that local, construction, useable permits with the competent police departments participate in and competent fire departments and commanders in the area where the building was not accepted and now be careful, because of their lack of expertise in the lack of the necessary very specific knowledge. I don't think this is correct, so according to the members of the fire department, it's underestimation. On one side of the country, i.e. The ministry asks them to stick to high standards, send them inspections, they even get fines, they end up in court because they are unable to meet those high standards, and on the other hand, the state has no trust in them and thus treats them. We think that this should also be changed in that new bill that it should be complemented so that the fire departments have a place in the new law because we think they deserve it very much and only because they are relieved of their possible intervention over these structures. Finally, I can say that the IDS supports this law, but we also point out that Croatia needs a new full law on fire and protection in order to eliminate the perceived difficulties in the functioning of the fire protection system, and we can therefore count the unsettled status in the financing of fire departments, and what must be above all is the knowledge that prevention is the best form of protection against fires that require a developed programme of prevention and working with children and youth, and here for one positive example can indicate what is the situation in the fire community in the Međimurje County where a total of 6397 members of which 1914 members of fire youth are involved. The Međimurje County Fire Community also organises many competitions and is among them a competition of fire-fighting youth. Here's one such competition took place on 31.5.2003 in Mali Mihaljevac where 51 teams were involved which included children aged 6 to 12 years, 26 teams who made up children from 6 to 12 years were also women, also 32 male teams aged 12 to 16 years and 17 female teams aged 12 to 16 years. So that's the best way to avoid what we wouldn't want to see happen, and that's a lot of damage in our economy as well as a possible loss of human lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32481	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Miroslav Korenik, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32482	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Very short in a few sentences. I must say that I support the adoption of such a law and, in particular, what I support, that, however, the possibility of giving prison sentences within a range has been introduced, because it will greatly facilitate and in some ways prevent a certain number of people, especially those who consciously cause fires that are also involved in criminal acts. As far as the fire protection labs are concerned, I think it's quite all right, but in Article 7 where it's about the lab, I think in the spirit of the law, but also other regulations, whether the fire protection laboratory is designed by a person who's authorized to pass a state exam and everything else, but a person should verify it by their signature and stamp, because other manufacturers of such things also mean that they have public authority have both the seal and the seal. It seems to me, and I would ask the Secretary of State just a question, is there currently in the system of state administration, means within the competent police administrations, are they personnel qualified to, within a certain time limit, mean here it seems to me that a 30-day deadline, to carry out their obligation and to elaborate and projects that come to them for approval to carry out their obligation within that time period so that we do not have to have again with those who are illegally building or who are in a design system in any way justified for not fulfilling their obligations. It seems to me that, at least in most police administrations right now, we don't have enough professional people to do this, so I would suggest and suggest that, in the system of the state administration, human beings are strengthened by police administrations so that they can do the job. In any case, support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32483	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32484	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is one of those draft laws that does not give public attention, which will have a major impact on life, living conditions and the safety of citizens. And it will certainly seduce the order in other areas that are regulated by other laws. It is certain that by applying this Law, for example, it will be much harder to build lawlessly than it has ever been, and that is one of the major problems of this country. Therefore, the Final Proposal for this Act is in line with the Fire Protection Act with the Construction Act in the section relating to procedures relating to spatial planning and construction, i.e. the adoption of spatial planning documents and the issue of local, construction and use permits. It is necessary to support this proposal for a law because the proposed amendments finally clearly define the role and way of participation of the Ministry of the Interior in the process of obtaining approval for the construction of buildings. The mandated services of the Ministry of Interior are now being monitored from the adoption of spatial and urban plans to the technical review and the building. Taking part, of course, with their conditions and requirements regarding fire protection in the envisaged procedure. This will certainly avoid possible failures. In this case it may be, but it may also mean loss of life and enormous material damage. What I find very important is the fact that no further procedure will be conducted before the Ministry of the Interior for family homes and simple buildings. I consider it particularly useful, since this speeds up the process of entering the building permit, therefore, other public services such as the Sanitary Inspectorate should follow this example, the Labour Protection Inspectorate, etc., in order to make this procedure as simple as possible. Of course, all of these services will, through the provisions of spatial and urban plans, prescribe their special terms and conditions, and do not need to grant special approvals to projects, thereby delaying the procedure. It should also be noted where the conditions laid down in this Act cannot be met for spatial, technical, technological reasons or can be met with inappropriately large financial expenditure, such as the reconstruction of cultural heritage structures, construction outside urbanised areas such as mountaineering and hunting homes, the possibility of designing and building exceptionally and particularly established conditions of protection against fires issued by the Ministry of the Interior. It is important to stress that the process of obtaining a building permit is simplified because the administrative procedure is conducted in one place, which is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, and the MUP as the authority responsible for fire protection is involved only in those cases where it is prescribed. This will also ensure savings in time, but of course a lot less people will be employed on these issues. What seems much better to me, and what wasn't in the law, is that they couldn't prove to the inspector their official property, identity and authority with an official ID card and an official badge. This applies when it comes to fire protection, when it comes to national parks and nature parks. This is now resolved by this Proposal for a Law, Article 10(3), which states that the Minister of the Interior specifically prescribes the form of the official card, form and appearance of the official card, the badges of the inspectors referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, and the manner of issuing, replacing and keeping records issued by official cards and badges. It is still necessary to add that they are clear, they are finally clear that by seducing order into more spheres that speak and treat this matter, so that from many of the conversations I have had with professionals in the field of fire protection, construction and protection at work, etc., I have heard only praises that say that the core of the problem has been affected and that by adopting the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act will be much less life and security problems for our citizens. And that's why I think we should adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32485	Thank you very much. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32486	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Here, in my review of the Final Proposal of the Fire Protection Act, I would very briefly engage in the discussion precisely because all colleagues have so far expressed their support for the provisions of the final bill and all the solutions contained therein. And primarily the problem of the connection of certain services from the Ministry of the Interior, related to building facilities. It is precisely because of the faster, easier and in a sense cheaper location of location building permits, as well as the useful permits for individual facilities, which weighs on many of our citizens when they go to the outcome of these approvals. Well, I welcome that the issue of certain confirmations from the area of fire protection has been resolved in this way. Finally, it would refer to the introduction of order in the construction of fire protection embodies, of which objects are made and, more importantly, it is prescribed that an exact who can be given the authority to produce elaborates. Because this area was a big mess, they were making themselves up, and they were charging themselves well for non-profits and inexhaustible elaborates. So, I believe this final proposal has been made very well and I will vote for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32487	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32488	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must express my satisfaction with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act and congratulate the Ministry of Interior headed by Minister Mlinarić and State Secretary Buconjic because we see that here, we have all said in this sense that the special profession, that we do not speak of those who earn income by the basis of this Law, expressed our satisfaction by reading this Law. Why is that? First of all, it is quite clear that the areas of special state interest, from which I come, are particularly interested in building new objects and everything that makes new values in this area. That this Law actually facilitates the outcome of local and construction and use permits, and the adoption of spatial planning documents. It is clear that a municipality of Dvor or the municipality of Topusco in this sense is not so demanding in terms of fire protection when certain buildings are built as a multi-story building in Zagreb. Article 15 was also defined by two groups that differentiate. And by doing so, the process of keeping all of these permits and bringing in documents of spatial planning of cities and municipalities has been extremely simplified. It is particularly important here to note that the very adoption of this Law has reduced the work of inspection services in the domain of administrative affairs, so that there is plenty of room left for the conduct of inspection tasks which have led to these services being defined. I also have to convey here the satisfaction of the fire protection inspector who finally got his post within the Ministry of the Interior because it's clear to all of us when you come into the inspection and you don't have any proof that you actually don't have a badge, an official card that then there are obstacles to doing this job. And so far, these people have faced various manipulations by responsible people who had to meet them on the basis of this Law so that they could do their job. Here it is defined and authorised by the Minister to define and... the badges and badges, which will make it significantly easier to monitor and see the real situation in the area for which the fire protection inspectors are in charge. In particular, I would like to say here a few words on the addition of criminal provisions for violations of the law, and it is particularly important to supplement a criminal provision that tightens the penalty for disabling the inspector in the conduct of their affairs or refusing to take into account the prescribed documentation. I know from personal experience that so far it has been simple not to give the Inspector's documents to the inspector because for this it has been punishment from some 210 former German marks or some 100 euros which has been much, much less than the development of fire protection embodies. It's easy to pay the fine, and until the next inspector sees it's a year or two, that legal person not to say everything right. However, this law places a minimum penalty of ten thousand kunas on the legal person and 2000 kuna on the person responsible as a minimum. Which is much more than the cost of costing elaborates against fire protection, and this is affected by this law means that both legal persons and natural persons are brought into a position to make this elaborate out of fire protection. Article 49 speaks of individual infringements, so far it has been much simpler to pay for these prescribed former words of 100 marks or 50 euros, and not to implement an inspector's solution. Do not maintain in the correct state possible cause of fire, such as electric, gas ventilation, installations, chimneys, bars and the like. Non-maintaining devices and equipment for tipping and fire extinguishing. Today, this is not possible because according to the proposed criminal provisions it will seem invaluable to comply with the provisions of the fire protection law. It will certainly bring more efficiency. We particularly welcome the decision in the article of this law that the Ministry will issue certificates for those who can work on fire elaborates. For we have also seen in today's examples that there are those who have paid for the making of the pieces and they have not been adopted because they were not made according to the law. Because the companies that have done so so far have not been sufficiently educated or authorized. So I believe that we will all support this final bill together. And in that hope and thank you very much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32489	Thank you very much. Five minutes of debate. Association of HSP representatives, respected representative Pero Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32490	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief on behalf of the HSP club. The HSP Club will support changes and additions to this law. But let's be aware that it's only the beginning of a small part of the relationship and it won't be very much achieved by these changes and additions. Although it will be relative to the state that the shift will be. Which we can expect. We can expect that we need to work on what we have long been saying that we must have an effective system of protection and rescue. In the first part, it's an important information base, and the information base is now trying to form a state administration for protection and rescue. After that, we must go to strength and resources and an effective chain of command. At this point, we only have the initial part that is this information base, you know that they themselves are the State Protection and Rescue Authority says that they will need time, time and time to be mentioned in 2007 and 2008 when it would come to life and so that it works effectively to know the information in good time. What happens if it's a fire? To know the strengths of the means and to know who commands it. We ourselves are aware of the situation here last night we saw on one of the Croatian televisions, that the cameramen came 20 minutes before the firefighters gorillaed the building in Zagreb. There are many such situations that prove once again that there are many problems in this establishment of an effective system of protection and rescue. Because as part of that, if we talk about this part of the fire, especially in the Adriatic during the season, we know that we are missing an important part of the inclusion in fire protection. It means prevention and everything, like the civil protection system. It is also necessary to amend and supplement the adoption of a whole new law on protection and rescue. Without that, we will continue to have a lot of problems in this area, especially in this area, and if it moves towards the insurance of power and resources, it means appropriate equipment to be able to react. But we still have that old problem of municipalities and cities and counties tied to the fire protection plans. To be organized and done right. TO ensure prevention, cutting, and then Croatian forests related to what is their part. Therefore, the Croatian electricity industry HEP in terms of power lines and everything we know can be the cause of the fire. So we're going, but we're not going for it yet, but we're not going to go for at least two years to get an effective and complete system of protection and rescue. And that is so that in all situations we can behave responsibly, and we know how and when we will act in a way that is in a function of protection means and material goods. Human lives and everything else that is very important for the functioning of the entire system of protection and rescue. So we're staying with those parts of us from before. We also expect from the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, as well as from the Ministry of Interior to move faster and more responsible in this part. To get at least for a year and a half one whole system of protection and rescue with all the essential parts. And with civil protection, and with other constituents so that both material goods and people's lives can be responsibly protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32491	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Ivica Buconji. Here's your final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32492	Thank you very much. Just really short. First of all, I express the satisfaction most MPs expressed to support most of the MPs in this amendment to the law. There were several remarks that would certainly place their place in the new law. It is clear that we need to pass a new law that will, in one place, regulate this matter more consistently than fire protection. Because it will become more and more important. And there will also be the need and necessity to comply with the new European Union standards. Which we will also need to respect and implement in our legislation. I thank you one more time. These remarks, which will certainly contribute to the better organisation of this protection and to the improvement of the inspection service and to the faster and more effective work of the administrative bodies working on the issue of licences, will be incorporated into the new law. We'll take care of them. And we will seek to prepare a new law as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32493	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. 2. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 85. The debate is closed. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please engage. Please vote. The result? I find that with 104 votes for and 1 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act, along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32496	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here is a brief Law on Changes and Supplements to the Investment Encouragement Act, but it is extremely important and important, because here today there was a debate in this assembly on the economy, and the economy is the most important part of the Croatian Government programme and, finally, in the Croatian Government's programme, is a special priority and importance placed on economic growth and development. And I think we all agree that economic growth and development do not have significant investments and investments both domestic investors and foreign investors in Croatia. So in the programme, the Croatian Government's economic programme with the development of small and medium-sized enterprises for which a really good framework has been created in the past year, with the restructuring of our existing economy and our black metallurgy, aluminum, shipbuilding, etc. I would also say significant procedures to work in, to resuscitate the existing situation that has been found. One important part of this economic programme is investment in Croatia. Why these amendments and additions to the law are existing, which came into force in mid-2001. So it was obviously wanted to boost investment in Croatia, but the results of all these years of this law show that we cannot be satisfied with what this law has won and achieved. Since the law, the existing Investment Encouragement Act, the benefits under the law have been used by 32 newly established companies, therefore by companies. Total investment, investments by these investors amounted to slightly more than 2 billion and 400 million kuna, namely 2 billion 436 million kuna, and the planned number of new jobs is 5 thousand 616. It is also important data and interesting that the duration of the investment cycle varies from about three, four months to five years. And this says that although there are some investments that are specific in its technology segment that it is, this time of the investment cycle is too long and it justifies what this Croatian government last year seriously began to do to simplify all processes, the authorisation procedure to speed up the process of issuing all these consents and papers that are necessary and necessary to see the light of day. When we look at the activities that have achieved these incentives, the basis of the Investment Encouragement Act, and when we look at investment projects then we can also not be satisfied with what has been happening so far, which is that 60% of these investments have been focused on the trade sector, so on trade. And if we look at regionally how these investments have been realised and where they are realized, then we can also not be satisfied because practically 90% of all investments ended in Zagreb or northwestern Croatia. So this is something that we must change in the thinking of all of us, the Croatian Government and we have made it clear that first of all, we must turn to production that has been neglected for the last ten years, that we must encourage investment and investment in production because it is the only way to create new jobs, but that through the transfer of new technologies we also create a competitive economy or such investments in production that will result in an increase in exports. What about this law, so the amendments to the law are actually new, and what's the big change? First of all, this fact that we are strongly committed and turned towards production and with these changes is proposed that encouraging measures in terms of investment can be used only by those companies, newly founded therefore by companies that have a significant share of the processing and other, manufacturing and other activities in the structure of total income. Therefore, in other words, those companies which make it difficult to weigh part of the trade income cannot benefit from this incentive measure. So for trading with these amendments, there are no more incentive measures. It is also important to say why the law that has been in force all these years has not reached its outcome is also an inexplicable issue of inability and never realised incentives for employment. In the current law, there is that possibility of 15 thousand kuna per new employee, but no one in Croatia has ever achieved it. It has not been achieved because the law provides for the establishment of two funds, a real estate fund to promote investment and a Fund to encourage the creation of new jobs and retraining. However, these funds are not available and no one could benefit from these benefits. This law defines incentive measures for the employment and retraining of new employees in such a way that this incentive is linked to the State aid Act, but also immediately in the budget for this year at the position of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the amount of 20 million kuna, therefore the funds to be used for that purpose. The law itself does not state the exact amount of these support for employment, new employment and requalifications, as I repeat it is regulated by the State Aid Act. But here I want to say that this is a possibility for, therefore, now that these amendments to the law can be passed up to 15% of the eligible costs in small businesses, in medium-sized enterprises, 7.5% of the eligible costs for a newly employed worker. And those eligible costs are two-year gross employees' salaries. Also defined is the support for retraining which can be allocated to 50% of the eligible costs in the case of general training of employees, workers and 25% of the eligible costs in the case of special training. The next thing is, so this is the part that is important and important and is related to incentives for new, new jobs, so to new employment. What is important in this law is also amended by this proposal, which is proposed to change the amount of investment which is the basis for obtaining the privilege of encouraging, therefore, the benefits for this investment. So far there have been 10 million kunas, now in this law there is a proposal of 4 million kunas. It has also reduced the number of newly employed with a need of 30 now under the current law, it is proposed to make the minimum number 10 employees. What was the purpose of this? Yes, small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore smaller investments can be achieved with a smaller number of people and with a lower amount of capital, these benefits can be achieved. This gives us a stronger turn to this small and medium-sized entrepreneurship which also has a great interest in us in Croatia, as well as from other countries that are also the most important investors in Croatia, so that they come and invest in Croatia and achieve these privileges. Now this and such entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized enterprises, will be able to do so and I believe that this is really important and important in encouraging entrepreneurship. This is simply and related to the programme, a very important programme of the Croatian government in the realisation of entrepreneurship zones. So the business zones that we're opening up right for the entrepreneurship that we're creating as a favourable infrastructure in which that process of that investment cycle and all the papers will be significantly and significantly reduced, we're opening up the possibility of incentive measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, and I think it's really creating one framework for stronger investment of domestic and foreign investors in this manufacturing sector, I repeat again just before all production. What is important in this law also to say in these amendments to the law is also the part that applies to the possibility given to the Croatian government that for certain investments of particular importance determines and special incentives. Why does it matter? It is important from this practice so far that we have seen that practically all investments went to Zagreb, northwestern Croatia, so in part more developed. We have an obvious problem and motivation of investors for certain regions and regions in Croatia. This opens up the possibility for certain investments in such parts of Croatia, not only in such areas can investment be of particular importance when it is not in the area of specific state interest, but I repeat, there is therefore a possibility for such investments of special advantages proposed by the ministry, and adopts the Government, where grants can therefore be granted to the holders of incentive measures, a variety of and additional tax customs benefits. I think that this is important and important and that this opens up the possibility of what other countries also have, that for certain programmes and projects give these funds, provide additional incentives and these amendments and additions will also make Croatia absolutely competitive to countries in an environment that are also eager to expect and want to see investors in their country. Here is the most significant part of the amendments to the law of the existing one that is now in force. I believe that we are all aware of how important and important this law is in a package of all the measures and programmes that the Croatian Government has already brought or brought, I think that it will be one whole circled when it comes to investments, investors, those who come to Croatia and how and how to encourage and attract them to exactly their destination as Croatia, and thus make it clear that they give a single swing to economic growth and development in Croatia. I therefore propose that this law, which we are and which the Government is sending to the regular procedure in order, therefore, that, through the debate here in the House, it also gets quality suggestions and suggestions, which could possibly be further done to create an even more positive environment to encourage investment, I believe that when the Parliament adopts this law and it is very important that this law and takes effect as soon as possible so that investors can also use all these encouraging measures that are envisaged. Finally, I would like to say that these amendments and additions were clear words to the Government when the proposal was adopted and forwarded here to the Assembly, there have been discussions both in various economic institutions and with potential and future investors and I can say that it is indeed accepted with the satisfaction of everyone above all I am talking about investors who are most often in Croatia and present from Italy, Austria, Germany, so very well accepted these changes and I think that they can really give one additional say I would contribute to Croatia's investments and grow investment in Croatia above all in the manufacturing sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32497	Thank you very much. Committee on Legislative, Economic, Development and Reconstruction, Honored President Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32498	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honorable representatives of the ministry, the esteemed MPs. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 25th session held on 10 February 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Investments submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 9 December 2004. The Committee shall be based on Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out the reasons for the submission of this legislative proposal as the aim is to encourage domestic entrepreneurs to increase investment activities and the actual clear conditions for foreign investment. In a debate followed by a representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, she supported the adoption of this law, stressing the need for investment in the manufacturing sector. She also stressed that investment in the Republic of Croatia must be as active as possible. It also noted that Article 1 of the Law requires a clearer definition of the promoter. Article 7 needs to be completed in a way to determine the competent ministry. The Committee also proposes new measures to encourage investments that could be included in the final draft law. The tender of those measures consists of the fact that the tax advantages should be granted for new investments, for investments in areas of particular interest and for investments in the economic branches and activities of particular interest. Income achieved by export should be taxed at a preferential rate of 10% with what is necessary to introduce a tax credit mechanism for investment in R & D up to 20% of the value of investment. It is also necessary to co-finance the state through investments in production in areas of particular interest and in branches and activities of particular interest. It also requires co-financing of interest rates on loans for production, export, as well as co-financing of infrastructure building, land purchases, employment, schooling, training, retraining, research and development. It also points out the need for accelerated depreciation, the release of newly employed social benefits for at least 12 months, land use and state-owned facilities, and in the area of special interest without compensation. It is also proposed to stimulate companies using domestic raw materials and semi-products in the export programme, as well as to encourage the development of industrial zones and free zones, as well as to simplify customs procedures, as well as to design special benefits for Croatian citizens returning from the diaspora. All participants in the debate agreed that an analysis of the effects of both the proposed law and the laws relating to it should be carried out. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act shall be adopted under 1. Under opinions 2, the comments and proposals tabled in the debate are addressed to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32499	Thank you. From the Committee on European Integration? Nothing. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32500	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club has given particular attention and interest to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Encouragement Act and strongly supports its adoption. The current state of the Croatian economy is characterised by a relatively low social gross product, high unemployment rate, current transaction balance deficit, budget deficit and unequal regional development. The adoption of the Investment Encouragement Act offers to domestic and foreign investors a system of incentive measures and benefits that would motivate them to invest additionally in the Republic of Croatia. Economic measures and instruments, i.e. incentive measures and new investments, the aim is to fix this existing situation, as I said, unsatisfactory situation. By observing the results so far of attracting foreign direct investment in the Republic of Croatia compared to other Central and Eastern European countries, we could argue that the total inflow of about 10 billion dollars, i.e. about 2 thousand 300 dollars per capital, places the Republic of Croatia into a more advanced group of countries of transition towards the success of attracting foreign direct investment. In other words, Croatia ranks among the first 5 transition countries by investment per capital. But while these results seem more than satisfactory at first sight, we cannot be satisfied with the current structure and type of direct foreign investment. Why? Because over 70% of foreign direct investment in the Republic of Croatia is achieved through the privatisation process, i.e. through the process of taking over and joining Croatian companies with foreign investors. All around 20% of total foreign investments are so-called. "greenfield" investments, i.e. the creation of new economic operators. So far, the application of the Investment Encouragement Act has not ensured the expectations of investment. Since July 2001, the existing Act has been in force, and only 25 newly established companies have benefited from the incentive measures of customs and tax advantages from this period from 2001 to 2003. In addition, what I particularly think is significant, the structure of the activities that have so far used encouraging measures has been unfavourable. Looking at the level of investments over 60% of capital and planned new jobs refer to projects in trade. This is why, proposed amendments, and this is what is the most important focus of the application of this Act, i.e. the approval of incentive measures for tax and customs benefits, is directed towards production and processing activities. Special attention is given to encouraging employment, i.e. the creation of new jobs, and to helping with vocational education and retraining. The existing 2001 law was to place funds for these incentives through the Real Estate Fund to encourage and invest and the Fund to encourage the creation of new jobs and the retraining of employees. Their establishment and work had to be regulated by a special law, as stated in the 2001 Law. However, since the Law provides for a Fund to encourage and create new jobs, no company that acquired the status of the promoter could benefit from this measure. With this proposal, which today is ahead of us, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is taking over the activities of promoting employment, i.e. the creation of new jobs and professional education and retraining. The paper in the Proposal for an amendment to the Investment Act is the introduction of incentive measures for investment projects of particular economic interest to the Republic of Croatia. The Government may, on a proposal from the Ministry, increase the incentive measures, i.e. to lay down additional measures such as the allocation of grants or the investment of assets owned by the Republic of Croatia in the holder of the incentive measures itself. It is certainly important to take into account the criteria when an investment can be considered an investment project of particular economic interest to the Republic of Croatia. The most important conditions, i.e. the criteria under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia could increase incentives, are the importance of investment for overall economic development and employment, even regional development, the development of areas of particular state interest, as well as the development of the very branch of the economy in which it is invested. Analysing the results of the application of the law so far, it is observed to express disproportionateness in terms of regional dispersion of investments. More than 90% of the capital and new employment has been achieved in the region of Zagreb and northwestern Croatia. Only a negligible part refers to undeveloped areas of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, those areas with the lowest gross social product and employment levels that are significantly below the national average. Why do we support the adoption of this Law? The bill's proposal does not distinguish domestic and foreign investors. The aim of the Law is to encourage domestic entrepreneurs to strengthen their investment activities, but also to create a clear and competitive environment for foreign investors. Domestic and foreign investors are offered an appropriate system of incentive measures and benefits which will attract them to invest precisely in the Republic of Croatia in the selection of investment sites. I am convinced that by applying the proposed Law, we can influence increased production capacity, increased employment, productivity, and more uniform regional development. For these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports and will vote for the proposed amendments to the Law on Encouragement Investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32501	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the honourable representative and vice president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32502	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to stress immediately that the SDP's Club of Representatives is for measures that will enable investment in the Republic of Croatia, and in particular those that will lead to the strengthening of the social market economy, the creation of new jobs in production services in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, create greater income and overall national and individual prosperity for all of our citizens in the country. Of course, in this respect we also support laws that directly and indirectly regulate such as the Law on Areas of Special State Care, the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, the Law on Islands, etc., etc. But what we would like to say immediately at the outset regarding a concrete proposal to amend and supplement this Law is the fact that we are glad that it is the law that is in the first reading. In fact, he has opened a whole series of questions that we should specifically discuss a few words, and especially about the concrete solutions he offers with this amendment and the addition. First of all, what we would like to point out is that the general environment still shows both state and internally, shows that it is not enough to regulate the only issue of investment incentives by economic, financial measures and tax policy, but should also start to discuss encouraging measures that have conditionally been said, greater scope and greater content or reach, and include some issues that may directly or even better affect investment. One of them is to strengthen the rule of law and legal certainty in the country. The second question is that the different administrative procedures, administrative permits that need to be obtained for investment are resolved more quickly. And the third issue that is extremely important in this situation is our position in relation to the International Community, whether or not to start negotiations with the European Union. It is absolutely certain that such issues will also start to act and act on investments in the Republic of Croatia, and then, in particular, it is important to point out that the question of access or perception of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, even the position of the Republic of Croatia in relation to joining the European Union, is extremely important for foreign investments, i.e. to encourage investors to come here. The greater Euroscepticism in us, unfortunately, is the question of the will to invest, in fact, the smaller the side, and in this respect it can very much influence. We have to take care of that question. The second thing that should be pointed out in particular, and it is about the internal issue, is not only the problem of economic measures and tax measures that I have already said, which these laws regulate. But the question is that whoever wants to invest next to natural resources has to get the right human factor he wants to hire. And we have to face the fact that in the Republic of Croatia despite the fact that we have a large number of unemployed and an even greater problem is that we do not have the proper professional, scientific qualification structure of these same people who in the production and service activities in relation to modern technologies that we want to apply and get here could practically engage. And in that respect, we will certainly have to take more care. Thirdly, it is also important, in fact, to open the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. We are not going to see this component until the end and the fact is that more and more differences in the Republic of Croatia feel and that it has already reached this some 13 times is, for example, Vukovar Srijemska or Osijek Baranja County less developed by the head of the population, if the income is measured by the head of the population, or I do not know the gross national product compared to the city of Zagreb. It simply can't be because we have some things to take care of, which is, for example, that the natural resources of human resources in those areas are not adequately put into operation, which is the national wealth that needs to be and must be in the function of creating a new good in order to solve a whole series of issues that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Now allow a few things to be warned because it's about first reading. The first state can prescribe specific conditions for an activity or for services, however, to encourage investment and achieve its specific interests and objectives. But the state cannot keep to itself discretion, volunteerism, interventionism and weakness if you want the very idea of the rule of law, let alone its functions. In that segment, it is necessary to warn of Article 49. A constitution that simply says that businesses must have the same legal position and must be, and the development of all ends must be ensured. The regional and equal legal position must therefore be represented. Now what does that mean? This basically means that we can legislate the conditions and criteria that must be met in terms of this law in order, for example, to say that there is a special economic interest in the Republic of Croatia. But there is no way beyond the law of the prescribed conditions and criteria to establish the discretionary right, for example, of the state body, even if it is the Government's special economic interest. Unfortunately, at this point, we would not only be against the Constitution in a position, or we would be questioning the constitutional concept of this law, but we would actually question the foreign approach to being under such an undefined condition in such a situation. This solution that is now present in Article 7 is simply unedited. He needs to be done, too. It must be developed when the legal requirements of the criteria are met then it is considered that such and such a special economic interest of the Republic of Croatia is achieved but why. Not because of the government, not because of doubts in the government or ministry, but because economic operators wishing to invest in the Republic of Croatia can achieve a constitutional and market position that they are equal before the law all of them. If I could compete equally, I could make it happen. Why does it matter? So it doesn't happen between this and this. Here I have a memo sent to the mayors and to the presidents of the HDZ council presidents only to them. And it is related to the availability, possible availability of funds from the Regional Development Fund of Vukovar Srijem County, which calls on representatives of the HDZ to report with projects related to it. So what has to do with the development, employment and job opening issue only one side, so it's not for God's sake a question of one party. It's a question of all of us. It's a question of the country's progress. It is a matter of solving the entire problems, which are related to this issue. And that should be prevented. Because if we had solutions like this that were legislatively stimulating it, then this would actually strengthen instead of falling. And that's that volunteerism politically, that's the discretionary right that simply leads to this very difficult position and consequences for all of us on the inside and on the international agenda. Of course, it is also important to take care of another important fact, for example, to leave it to the government in Article 7 so that the Government can, on a proposal from the competent ministry, increase the incentive measures. Tax customs are all listed. But when, it's not said when. The law must specify which conditions must be met so that the Government can increase the measures, of course, if there is economic justification and rationality for that part. Otherwise, you put the government simply in a position to discreetly assess. And then we'll be in a position not to have a domestic maybe company, but a foreign company simply says, wait, excuse us why we gave this to us, and why we didn't give it. Another question that we could not at the time when we were in the coalition government to the end resolve and the rest is hanging also systematically legal aspects and needs to be reopened and now. It is a question of why incentive measures can only be obtained by newly established companies and cannot by existing companies. Of course, provided that existing companies invest in job creation and so on. You know why we have to open this issue because we existing companies simply force ourselves to achieve an economic or tax or customs policy incentive offered by this law, to practically go for 20 thousand kunas to start a new society. And now we get a steady increase in the number of companies that appear in the register. And objectively, they actually serve to actually serve one single purpose to enable the opening of one stimulating investment and a certain measure. And practically these people work within or within the framework of an existing trade, or a mother company that has one daughter more for formal reasons to come to these results not from the real goal of what we want to achieve. It needs to be cut one time. The second question is how to establish the criteria of the instrument to determine that it is precisely new jobs, new investments, new jobs and so on. This is not a problem with the law to settle just a little more effort and resolve it. The same thing we may have to say is that it was extremely put here in Article 1(2) of this amendment and supplement. It says if investment is carried out in tourist activity on the basis of a demand for investment on a proposal from the Ministry of Tourism, it can be more existing. And now we've already broken through that part here. Now the issue is just opening up, and what about the constitutional norm of Article 49 is a minor problem that says in full equality on the market, and I again point out that the real problem is that the individual companies are unequal in the market and in such a situation should appear in front of the international community and ask us to stimulate economic operators and international communities to invest in the Republic of Croatia. I think that in such a situation it is absolutely necessary to take care of this issue and that this part should be completed. I also believe that this regulation on State aid should be amended by my court. It should be in the function of implementing the state aid law. It should not establish state support. Unfortunately, it also finds, in part, state support and, when this law is already amended, if the content that is now regulated by both the regulation and the state support is needed, then we do so to amend and supplement the State aid law. It's better efficient and accessible to everyone. And let the regulation be, in fact, the regulation of the procedure for the exercise of all these rights and those technical, implementing rules which are otherwise present in many other countries and which the Government must not only take into account but must objectively address this issue. And that is why it is important to point out that this must be settled in fact if these issues are to be resolved and that this is best shown in article 7 of the proposed law. Among other things, I will quote "The Government of the Republic of Croatia may, on a proposal from the competent ministry, increase the incentive measures of the tax, customs privileges governed by this law, extend the measures for... the loss from the previous accounting period to a maximum of ten years in the case of investment ventures. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of a special economic interest". And now we're going in order, including. Granting grants, so you can't handle it by regulation. Then, the ratio of the investment of assets owned by the Republic of Croatia in the holder of the incentive measures of tax and customs benefits and in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, that is now. So this regulation will solve it. This regulation simply cannot be resolved, it must be resolved by the aid law so that we do not have to amend all those laws such as customs, such as the laws on giving and so on in relation to government and state. I think that these issues should be further elaborated and that, in such a consolidation of relations, an additional problem should be considered in fact, which is also related to a general approach to the regulation of this investment incentive, which is very important, is not enough to be kept on these issues alone, and the need to look at additional matters, which means opening or completing or continuing to work where reforms have started. We have started to reform, for example, land books and catastras, but the reform of the administration, the reform of the judiciary, the functioning of the rule of law, in this context slightly lags behind and be convinced that these are also important factors in encouraging investment, such as the promotion of tax policy, or I don't know, customs policy, without speaking about the possible forgiveness or halving of contributions when it comes to investing and opening new jobs and employment. And that is why we at the club want to give support to the Ministry of Economy to open up a wider debate and then possibly the necessary legislative legislation in the Parliament on the creation of overall social measures and incentives that should actually, measures and regulations that should create equal chances for all economic operators and at the same time stimulate them in relation to the environment to invest in Croatia, create new jobs, hire and, of course, make good profits for them but we all achieve overall prosperity and progress in the country. Because of how the idea is turned we will support the first reading with the fact that the solutions within the first reading itself would not be as they are offered, but we believe that we need to open the space to prepare until the second reading to amend and supplement this law and preferably in a wider segment than the bill has now included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32503	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32504	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd do to correct an incorrect quote, actually, maybe explain it. Dear Representative Arlovic also said showing paper probably referring to Vukovar-Srijem County and an article recently published in the paper to share funds by political orientation to municipalities, individual municipalities and cities. It is not about this, but about one legitimate law, coordinator, chief and mayor of Vukovar-Srijem County, that is, the Croatian Democratic Community from that area to encourage the mayors and mayors from that area and to the quality programmes, and I think that there is nothing controversial about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32505	Thank you. Thank you. You didn't, you didn't follow the Rules of Procedure until the end, and you corrected the wrong allegations. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of the Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32506	You just said, Mr. Vice President, Article 209(2), my colleague did not correct my incorrect quote but said, "I think Mr. Arlovic is referring to the newspaper article." I don't think my colleagues have an HDZ memo that's addressed to the HDZ fax. I've shown it to the entire public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32507	Thank you. Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS DC Club, distinguished representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32508	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and Assistants, ladies and gentlemen. Finally. It took us three years, though, since we've had changes to the Investment Encouragement Act, it seems to me, in July 2002, in the former Council on benches. By some miracle, we never had in the second reading of the law change and the legal paper in the former Suzie. And here, three years later, we finally have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Investment Encouragement Act. It is truly strange that a country that is as I have already said today to 75% of pre-war industrial production, so to about 75% of 1990 industrial production, we could further sharpen rhetorical and say which is 75% of last year's industrial production. That one country that fell on the competitiveness scale year by year not to mention when to compare the competitiveness of the economic and investment climate of Croatia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland that we were then far, far behind them. That one country where only 54% of the working-age population is employed, so 54% of the working-age population works at all. That one state that has over 300 thousand unemployed, that a country that only 20% in the total structure of foreign investment is directly foreign investment in production activities, that one such state has 3 years to change the ageing and modern investment needs and requirements of a completely inappropriate Investment Encouragement Act. I cannot welcome and thank Mr. Minister and the current ministry that they have even begun these changes. If the former government had stayed, I believe we would have waited four more years for a change of laws. Because unfortunately, there was never a political will to change the Investment Encouragement Act. It came, we all know why to paralyze the entire investment incentive system, simply because there was no agreement on whether to encourage investment by craftsmen. I'm still adhering to colleagues from the HSS who believe that not only companies should be included and I think that another reading should also consider craftsmen. Why don't we all who invest above a certain amount of money would not admit to investing, why don't we be privileged under the provisions of this law. I don't think it's good to discriminate against the privileged. Turn off the condition and I'd rule out a reason for someone to become a priority for incentive measures. In my opinion, it should be the height and number of new employees. Whether it's done by craftsmen or by companies, whether it's small companies, medium-sized companies or large companies. This is completely irrelevant when it comes to our target definition, and the purpose for which we propose these amendments and additions is precisely to encourage direct foreign investment in production activities. Unfortunately, Croatia has very few production investments. Most of it was investment in major malls, big malls. Production investments, unfortunately, can be counted on the fingers of one hand, and unfortunately as they stand here, are mostly investments that happened here in northwestern Croatia. And now, without any false modesty, I can say as Mayor of Varazdin, most of these investments are happening in northwestern Croatia and the surroundings of Varazdin, so I can even say immodestly that at the moment more Green Field factories are being built in Varazdin and the surroundings of Varazdin than in all of Croatia together. That's not good, that's extremely bad. It just shows what I believe and Mr. Minister is aware that even great laws will not be implemented if in any way in the provisions of this law or in the sublaws we do not link the units of local self-government and commit the units of local self-government to include them in the operationalisation and implementation of this law. I'm afraid that without it any laws, no matter what the ministers have, whoever the Prime Minister or the President of the State of Croatia will no longer have direct #greenfield investments, direct production investments because simply investors will have no place to come, we won't have them anywhere to receive them. When it comes to certain provisions of this law, I think it's a good thing that in some ways the incentive measures will be applied more easily now and the less we reduce, we lower the cash censorship of which the company, the company, becomes a priority of all these incentive measures. But I really don't think it makes any sense again to discriminate because it's not about positive discrimination in such a way that only newly founded companies become privileged. Mr. Ministers, this will create great difficulties for those companies that have already been established, who want to invest again, who want to build new factories, who want to get into new investment cycles that will now simply shut down existing factories, I don't know what they're going to do with people, so they're going to have to fire them, and then the second day they're going to start a new company, they're going to take those same people back to being privileged. I'll just give you an example of a German factory that has already built its production facilities in Varazdin, which already works, which this year wants to rebuild another factory. So we should just welcome this in such a way that they do not have to start a new company again now, but that this existing company can become a priority at another location. What makes sense is that we make these people have to start a new company if they're already working, if they've already invested far above these censorships that are scheduled here, they've hired, they've already hired 80 people over the years to work. Therefore, they too could not be under incentive measures, which could only make it a newly established commercial society. In this way, we completely unnecessarily discriminate against even existing investments that may be under way against these new investments, i.e. newly established companies. So I think we should think about making it possible for existing companies, at least for those who have already used such incentives. It is also good that, according to this proposal, an incentive measure for the employment and retraining of new employees is provided by the Ministry of Economy, no more funds as foreseen so far, since these funds have never practically started to work, they have not acted. We need to understand that most of the investors who read the law, that law is held up to the last letter, and if you leave it with the possibility and set an incentive measure that it can use the funds, he will be asking you next week or shortly after the start of the investment when it will be able to use those funds. If you answer that the fund is not yet available, then you are practically discouraging it, and in some ways I think that the potential future investors of Croatia consider it incomprehensible. There is not even so much a question of bureaucracy as the fact that bureaucracy is silent most often, but there is nothing to answer since these funds are not planned. It is therefore good that such funds will be planned at the Ministry of Economy. So it's good, which reduces the census and the minimum number of employees. What I would like to warn ministers and promoters is the fact that we should look at the total value to be calculated and to which the benefits are accounted. So let's try to figure out that the value of the investment that is minimal must actually be in some way total assets, so that we wouldn't act as we've acted so far that only the underlying capital is accounted for, and then someone has to invest in unrecognizable capital above 5 million or 10 million, but we couldn't include the total value of the investment, so what he invested in buildings, in buildings, in the production plant itself, or in technology was not counted below the investment level. That's not good. Therefore, we must allow every investor, both foreign and domestic, to register as an asset with the total value of their investment, i.e. with so-called. Total activity. What you should also think about, Mr. Minister, is the fact that these 10 years are practical, so when anyone who understands little investment understands and who understands little about the investment in production knows that for the first two years at all, it is not possible to expect that of course investments that the effects will be the kind of incentive measures here. I'll tell you an example of several companies, here in Varazdin, so from the very establishment of the company, when you get the conditions for all possible permits, the projects, when you start working, are about that cycle of some kind of initial stalking for two years, a year and a half, two years. Therefore, the total cycle effectively when they can count on benefits is not 10 years but 8 years, so you should consider that in some way it starts to be calculated from the moment of employment, so those 10, 20 or how many employees are needed, but not from the moment the company itself is established, so when it is registered in court. We think that this would encourage more investors to invest more in the Croatian economy. Also, what seems inevitable to us when we talk about the provisions of the Investment Encouragement Act is, in some ways, to include companies, i.e. public companies owned by the state. In my experience, I can tell you that the most difficulty is, however, every investor faces the most difficulties just when it comes to public companies. Since these are public companies that you are directly overseeing, Mr. Minister, I think they should be mentioned somewhere, and I think there should be some possibility of whether you were referring to this very discretionary government's right to decide on some issues, i.e. investments of national interest, but there should be an opportunity for at least the ministry to take on coordination when there are some barriers or when negotiations between investors, local environments and public companies are closed because I think that tends to deter potential investors. In the end, I agree partly with what my colleague Arlovic was talking about. It is not good if we do not specify in more detail the conditions under which the Government can discretionaryly decide. It's a good thing the government has those options. I will tell you a concrete example of the investment of an Austrian company that wants to build the first Croatian aircraft factory in Varazdin, everything is stuck around the purchase of land because the land is private, private owners and you know I can blackmail, I can raise prices to heaven. Therefore, we could get out of this state and sign the contract in some way, we signed the contract as the city of Varazdin, only if the state declares public interest, if the state will help buy land so that we can offer potential investors land and so that we can reach the first Croatian aircraft factory. If the Government had no discretion then that would not be possible, but perhaps it would be good for another reading to state and under what conditions it is possible. So once again, we will be in favor of passing this law. We believe that the ministry did well to make changes to the law. I would also suggest that, under the urgent preparation and amendment of the Free Zones Act, because, as one of the co-owners, like the City of Varazdin, co-owner of the best free zone, at least so declared in Southeast Europe, the free zone of Varazdin, I can say that there are great difficulties that if we removed we would have a lot more direct foreign investment. And that with these few laws that we will change, we can expect a better and more competitive investment climate in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32509	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Željko Pecek, on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32510	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the time, President Seks promised to protect us from bad proposals so as not to discuss bad proposals in the House. I believe there's one such proposal ahead of us. Much was said by Vice-President Arlovic so I would not repeat it, however, it is quite certain that the amendments to this law have ambitions for the government to deal with regulations that are impossible. Let's start with such more important things as joint investment and possibly a public private partnership. And I'd just look back on the introduction to explain this. Here in the introduction, it tells us that 25 newly founded companies used incentives. We just heard from the minister that it's 32 companies. I now don't know where the truth is and what happened to those seven newly founded companies, is that exactly what it says in the materials or is exactly what the minister said. And you wouldn't actually go on explaining this, from Article 1. Article 1 tells us which novelty is being introduced, which is that encouraging measures cannot be used by traders and calls for Article 2. The law of trade. However, Article 2 The law on trade actually tells us the only definition. It tells us what it is to do in trade, that it is to buy and sell goods and do business. And it tells us that the activity of trade can be carried out both by legal and physical persons. However, the appeal to such a provision of the Law does not regulate this area. Here we are referring to a specific provision of a special law, specifically Article 2 and that is impractical, it is inconclusive, it is non-transparent, and by the way, it is generally known that the Law on Trade and Change. I believe the bill of law has already been drawn up. Therefore, here we are trying to make one formal but not a fundamental amendment to the law that would encourage exactly what we all expect, which is to encourage investment, encourage economic activity with an emphasis on exports and to solve what has again taken a negative trend in Croatia, and it is called new employment. It's absolutely certain that we don't change the origins of the old law here. We don't change them, and there's probably no appraisal of the expected effects. I believe if we are going to change the law and if we explain it this way, we should at least determine what we can expect after the law is applied. I am absolutely certain that these 20 million kunas, which should be available in 2005 for the activation of legal provisions, are insufficient and are actually very funny to encourage any domestic interest, let alone foreign investment if they consume only these 20 million kunas. It is absolutely certain that foreign capital loves profits, loves profits from investments, but it is certain that it loves both security and transparency. Here we are deleting concrete amounts of help to create new jobs and also deleting amounts where the cost of requalification and other professional assistance to the workforce can be determined. However, we are left with one big forest of regulations and resources and encouraging measures that I do not think even the Croatian entrepreneur understands at this point, let alone to be understood by an ino investor. I'll try to count just some, as far as I can think of, preparing for this exposure. The Fund for Development and Employment, we are generally familiar with lending and encouraging employment measures. The Regional Development Fund deals with the development of infrastructures that are well operational in entrepreneurship. It's the same way he does credit. The agricultural ministry has a capital investment project and also deals with lending. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is a state bank dealing with lending, but look at the wonders. It also deals with the acquisition of shares and ownership roles as provided for in these amendments to the Law. Where I will now report as an entrepreneur after such changes to the law. Is it HBOR or Government? Where's more convenient for me, where's faster? It's just confusing. I would like to remind you that the Ministry that is proposing this Law also has a credit line project with special benefits, have a project, as the minister mentioned here, a entrepreneurship zone with an ambition to activate over 500ths of the zone over a period of several years. However, there is no correlation between this proposal and the consumption of incentive measures, i.e. the infrastructure supported by the state. There is a special programme for islands in the Ministry of the Sea. Several hundred million kunas each year are invested in islands that are also partly in the development of entrepreneurship. There is also a project in almost every ministry that is based on a special state interest. We're not talking about it here. At the Ministry of Construction of the Environment Fund which, of course, is in the function of development, which is of course an environmental function, which is focused not only on the countries of the European Union but also on Croatia. There are also various measures of the Croatian Employment Institute, there are pre-accession funds with which we will probably try to do something in entrepreneurship, and there are many, many more things that I have no ambition to choose here now. However, I would like to emphasise and underline that it is high time to bring all this together once in Croatia. That an entrepreneur, a domestic and foreign investor who wants to invest anything more serious in Croatia, who wants to hire, can get an answer in one place and can consume all these measures, projects and subsidies that I have talked about, and also that I have not talked about, and we all know that they exist. Oh, that would actually be a novelty, that would be a novelty in changing the law. I suggest that it be news, I suggest it be a new step, a brave step to really try to make something more serious. We're coming up with an interesting situation that we've lost the Real estate fund. However, we continue to provide by law that an entrepreneur can obtain real estate at his disposal, it can be awarded by the government, but where it will return if the Fund does not exist. Whose door is he gonna knock on? Of course, it doesn't say anything. Whether or not the Government will regulate the regulation or any entrepreneur will have to go to the government to ask if any real estate is available to him to invest in entrepreneurship. Here, by some miracle in the Bill's amendment, there is no mention of a public private partnership at all. So many years ago we talked about him, and this is exactly where we should define what it is and how we want investors for government partners, i.e. ministries or units of regional and local self-government. Of course it does not say and I hope that we will not implement the public private partnership according to the model "Sunishani Hvar" or by the model "Bechtel" here remains a provision that incentives can only be given to newly founded societies, of course companies. Of course, we have bypassed the amendments to the Law of craftsmen who employ in Croatia 250 thousand people, we have bypassed those who have tradition and who deal with this business 100 years in a row but we have also banned the entry into the world of entrepreneurship in Croatia by a German craftsman, where there is a tradition even longer and where it is no wonder that these craftsmen employ several hundred people and have income of several hundred million euros. But this way the door is closed to them. Especially if we consider that we forced craftsmen if they had higher income, or higher value of assets or the number of employees that had to be transferred to the Income Tax Act to profit tax. Therefore, it would be very simple to include craftsmen here just to mention them because everything else in these incentive measures regarding liberation is tied to the Tax on Profits Act where they are anyway. It's strange that no one has got the idea that besides newly founded companies here, those who buy the companies in liquidation might have the advantage, even in bankruptcy. In fact, it's about new societies, because they don't exist anyway, some of them are dead, almost to the end. And that would be the same extra step, we know that commercial courts have been running for 10 years now, and I think of the one who buys in liquidation and who buys the company in bankruptcy as actually having made a new investment and founded a new company, I suggest that we think more seriously about it. Here we have in the Law the exception that new companies do not have to be founded only in the tourism sector. It is also interesting that there is no automation if a tourist society uses incentive measures, it cannot apply according to the law but needs an opinion, better said the tourism ministry. I don't understand why a proposal if a society fully fits into legal provisions. However, it is not clear to me why an exception is only for tourism if it is in Dubrovnik today, for example, a meter of squares, a residential or tourist space of 5 thousand euros, if we have a building plot on the Adriatic, also at the price of several hundred euros per square metre, which is why we did not include agriculture here, which is why we did not include textiles that are exposed to high international competition and lately dealing with business, why we did not include a metal dam that still has potentials, which has knowledge, which has people but hard to survive in this international environment. I just believe that these activities that are productive, which are traditionally done by Croatia, where they can make the simplest solutions to include themselves in the world market and the European market in order to encourage employment to be supported in this Law. I suggest and underline that it's just agriculture, that it's textiles, that it's a wooden brand, that it's a metal brand. MI means we're removing real estate funds and we're also removing a fund to create new jobs. And we put everything in the power of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which is exactly the same ministry that in 10 months last year used the budget for only 10% and did not approve in the whole last year a single business loan, and the funds for the construction of entrepreneurial zones for 2004 were allocated only for Christmas that same year. What will it look like to consume these measures that are proposed in the Law? That is why we at the HSS Club propose to consider a different one, a more quality amendment to this Law where everything will be transparent where we will unite all the measures of incentives that exist in the Government of the Republic of Croatia in HBOR and in other ministries because the HSS wants to support such a law, however, this proposal for the HSS law will not be able to support it unless it has changed until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32511	I thank you, the correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32512	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect assumption that this Law does not promote a public private partnership. Article 7 of these amendments and amendments amending Article 9 clearly states that the State invests its assets and thus becomes a co-owner in the company in which it invests. It is also incorrect to find that companies that buy companies in bankruptcy cannot achieve incentives. Why not, we know that if we start a new company that buys assets and not a company, it can clearly achieve incentives because in bankruptcy, which is the basic knowledge of bankruptcy proceedings, it is not a company but the property of the company, therefore, it is quite possible to achieve these incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32513	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Branko Vukelic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32514	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, allow me a few sentences because I said in the introduction that the law is quite short but in fact important and meaningful and it seems to me that here as Mr. Pecek, some have failed and have arrived to read it well enough, but that is why there is another reading. It also seems to me that the problem is that some of the things in this Law we haven't changed that the previous government has passed, so it's no wonder that Mr. Pecek is talking about tourism as an exception, which is in the existing law that you have brought as a member of the Government, and now you're surprised at it. I think that's the thing we didn't want, we were thinking about the context of companies that, therefore, whether for all branches to take the rule economically, must be a newly founded company, we looked at the context of tourism, since in the previous law it was so, then here's what the respected parliamentary representative Mr. Arlović spoke constitutionally the same position of these companies we didn't want to change because it was in the existing law. So, not to reduce what has already been, holding that tourism is a special economic branch, holding that, according to these incentives so far, it is a very symbolic percentage of the companies that participated in the use of these benefits from tourism. Therefore, around tourism it is so much so far or now the applicable Law, therefore, is not something that is particularly new but I would like to clarify immediately whether the new or existing company thinks that for now, according to what the tax profession tells us, it is very difficult to find a model in which the current company sees the effect of this investment, this tax investment, or the profit that the company or company makes. I want to remind you this is about benefits that have been long for years, 10 years, and another element, nowhere in any of the interviews has any of the investors mentioned the problem of starting a new company. Finally, I would like to remind you that the number of newly established companies in Croatia is far below all neighbouring countries, 3.6 per 100 inhabitants. Therefore, it is no problem to start a company, one who wants a serious investment of 4 million kuna and more, I think the least problem is to start a new company. And on the other hand, I think it's very important to have the ability to control and use that privilege, so through a new company, through this investment based on which a particular company has achieved and that privilege. Therefore, I think that in this direction I am asking you to consider yours, because for such a single law which has and incentives, which has a long range of years to result in the use of these benefits, it is important and clear, precise, easy to control and monitor the business of such a company. Therefore, the new company is also proposed in this form, if there are mechanisms and models, to make that control in existing companies, please let us do so until the second reading and think together. I agree, and I think that, as far as the criteria are concerned, the government needs to determine, that we need to work on them how. And if I appeal to it the same way, let's not narrow down the space and limit ourselves to what we want and how we want to encourage it, because this law and I'm going to do it again, and I'm going to do it again, because it's turning towards production unlike what was practically in store, because it involves small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which together with now favourable credit lines and everything we have and entrepreneurship can give further momentum, because it clearly defines how incentives for new employees will come true, from where, from which sources. And what's also important to say, how someone will find out what they can do to invest, that's why these days in, I'd say to resuscitate an existing agency that hasn't lived all these years before for, an investment and export agency, which will certainly have something to say and direct every investor, investor to which rights, to which things can be addressed, to which bodies to get any benefits or to get some advice. As far as these incentives are concerned, it's clear that it's directly up-to-date and stories about entrepreneurship zones. Of course, there's also a story about all the favourable credit lines that exist, and I have to say it here because everyone sitting here in this parliamentary advocates for the truth, last year they shared credits, the truth is they're an unfavourable entrepreneur 2, and in the 11th month they started new credit lines that had more credit potential in two months than three years before the entrepreneur 2. It's true and it's a fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32515	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32516	Thank you very much. It's an incorrect quote from Mr. Minister that I didn't read the law, it's the other way around, the law didn't read it, because if he read the bill, he saw that inside it would say that the incentive was used by 25 newly founded companies, not like he said 32 societies. And I'd like to ask Mr. Minister to say how many credits have been granted in the past year, that we break that enigma once, because he corrects my quote that is absolutely correct. I argue, no credit has been granted in banks through the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship credit line. Let him say how much and where..
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32517	I thank you for correcting the incorrect assumption. In your opinion, that's an incorrect allegation. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the minister completely incorrectly said that a representative of the Croatian Peasant Party Club had not read the law, so he explained that tourism is an exception from the current law. Mr. Minister, that bill was passed to me in the 7th month...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32519	I ask you to focus on correcting the incorrect allegations, not on the controversy with the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32520	That's exactly what I'm doing. So, in 2000. If we are in changes and additions to the law, then everything that has proved to be bad changes changes. And the changes and additions that you now propose to us, we had in the 9th month of 2002 and did not pass because the parliamentary majority at that time is..
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32521	I'm thanking you. Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for an individual debate of 10 minutes. We've finished this morning's session, and it's 15 o'clock. The word has a club IDS, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. At 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32522	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to discuss the Amendment Law proposal and the amendments to the Investment Encouragement Act. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32523	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In view of the fact that this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the investment law is today in the first reading, we can give guidance and suggestions in the debate which will in many ways be clearer and better defined by the promotion of investment. Of course we supported at the IDS Club and we will support any proposals, which will go towards addressing and improving what has been so far. The current Investment Encouragement Act provides for encouraging measures in the field of tax relief, customs relief, incentives for the closure of new jobs and incentives for the education or retraining of workers. Regardless of the incentive measures prescribed by the law of the basic obstacle to the realisation of investments in the Republic of Croatia, administrative obstacles and lack of coordination between state institutions and public companies are evident. It is difficult to decide to launch an investment project if there is no adequate infrastructure on the ground, and when it comes to larger projects local and regional self-government are not able to ensure the same. Analysing the proposal to amend and supplement this law does not monitor the solutions to existing concerns. For example, if someone wants to invest in a new production plant where they would employ 100 workers and consider the possibility of a possible destination, they will not be able to reliably calculate investment and business costs over a certain period. And that's exactly what's crucial to choosing a destination, so the following questions are raised. First. Whether the purchase of land enters as the accounting value of the total investment and where it is written and who determines it. The second is whether the purchase of new equipment enters the value of the investment and where it writes and who determines it. Third. Whether the investor will exercise the right to cash incentives in terms of opening up a hundred new jobs. And who's to say that. Fourth. Will they exercise the right to retrain workers up to 30% of the cost of requalification and so on. We can conclude that the law is unarranged in its implementation as well as the fact that there is no body that can implement it. And what is witnessed by the extremely low percentage of investments in the Republic of Croatia. The coordination should be carried out by state agencies modelled by the IDA from Ireland, the Czech Republic and the Czech Republic's DTH and not to list further. The SV countries in the transition had such or similar agencies and they still have them, and they co-ordinate investment-enhancing jobs. I would like to mention here that in Istria, we founded an Istrian development agency that is owned by the Istrian county and all cities in Istria through which more than 1500 entrepreneurial projects have been directly supported to date, and with contractual relations with banks and ministries, over half a billion kuna has been placed to mid- and small entrepreneurs. Last week, another step was taken when the Istrian County and the Istrian Development Agency established the Istra 21 Guarantee Fund, with an initial capital of 2.2 million kuna. Which fund will guarantee entrepreneurs their credits with business banks. And by taking less risk, banks will reduce interest on loans. Furthermore, what I am saying is that amendments to the investment promotion law need to make it clear that it represents a fundamental mechanism for launching the deposit of Croatian economy growth. This also revitalises production, exports, small and medium-sized enterprises, foreign direct investment, and regional development. In addition to the positive general climate for the investment of short and clear procedures, encouraging measures are of paramount importance for the selection of the investment destination. These amendments and investment promotion supplements should list all the measures they aim to promote investment. So, with tax and customs relief, I'm going to make some more. Tax benefits can also be for new investments, for investments in areas of particular interest. These are islands, mountainous mountainous areas, undeveloped areas. Areas of high unemployment, other areas of particular interest. And each investment is specifically released from profit tax over a period of at least 10 years. Further, to invest in economic branches and activities of particular interest for the development of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to define what branches and activities are and to make a priority list of benefits. Income achieved by export should be taxed at a preferential rate of 10 %. A tax credit mechanism should be introduced to invest in research and development, up to 20% of the value of investment. In addition to tax benefits, co-financing, co-financing of investments in production, there is a need to make a scale of monetary amount related to the level of investment and the number of new employees. It should be co-financed to invest in export-related activities, stimulate producers and exporters whether direct producers or not. Stimulate exporters of services and what I particularly underline to stimulate tourism. Promote investments in areas of particular interest. Investments in branches and activities of particular interest. Co-financing of interest rates on production loans. Export. Investment in areas of particular interest. Branches and activities of particular interest. Co-financing of infrastructure building, land purchases, construction of buildings. Of course, depending on the area where investments or branches or activities are invested, which is of particular interest. Co-financing of employment, co-financing of education, training, retraining. Co-financing of research and development. I would like to point out here in particular that Croatia is a small country with a high potential of highly qualified and highly educated people, it may be necessary to highlight co-financing, research and development under a special sentence. Co-financing should always be linked to the amount of investment and the number of newly employed employees except when co-financing for employment, education, training and re-qualification where the amount should be determined per person. Let me mention a couple of other measures. Introduce the possibility of accelerated depreciation, which is a very interesting thing. New employees shall be free of social benefits of at least 12 months. In areas of particular interest, allow the use of land and buildings owned by a state without compensation. Or give up land and facilities with an obligation to start economic activities and employment. This has already proved realistic in some examples. Specially stimulate companies using raw materials from Croatia in their export programme, or that their suppliers are Croatian companies. Promote the development of industrial zones and free customs zones, simplify customs procedures when under quotes of domestic production in Croatia. And I am particularly undermining and that is to come up with special benefits for Croatian citizens returning from the diaspora. I'm saying this because right from the county, or from the city of Labin, where I come from, there's a lot of people living in America, and there's a nice number of people who would like to invest their knowledge and their money in our country. So, by amending and supplementing this Investment Encouragement Act, we at the IDS Club will make a positive decision, but I think we need to secure real mechanisms and prepare for a second reading such mechanisms with which to attract investors and thus end the trade and import lobby and start production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32524	Thank you very much. HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32525	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Each government thus adopts or amends the Investment Encouragement Act. In the previous Assembly of Parliament, we had a series of discussions on encouraging investments that have often been uncoordinated among various ministries that should have actually come up with a way to attract and encourage investment in the Republic of Croatia. We were thus witnessing a concept offered by the Ministry of Economy, another concept offered by the Ministry of Finance and the third concept offered by the Ministry of Defence, or the Ministry of Reconstruction. I believe, Mr. Minister, that this Investment Encouragement Act is, therefore, agreed between your ministry and the Ministry of Finance. When writing such laws, the wishes, interests and initiatives on one side of the Ministry of Finance should be harmonised when it comes to the exemption from certain taxes, which are most often the main incentives of investment. Then coordinate the wishes and interests of the Ministry of Economy when it comes to the economy itself, about free zones, about undeveloped areas and the like. But also to reconcile the wishes and interests of the Ministry of Reconstruction when it comes to fostering faster economic development on the islands, in mountainous mountainous areas and in general in areas that were less developed for the sake of war, either because of objective circumstances. So when such laws are written, or when changes of these laws are encouraged, we need to know and you will probably inform us that this initiative is indeed the fruit of a harmonised plan of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. What we are discussing today, so the Investment Encouragement Act is not only to encourage investment in terms of employment, in terms of new jobs, but rather to direct the development of the economy. Each country modelling the tax system also models its own economy, i.e. She wants some branches of the economy to grow faster because it's in some of her interests, as it is. The objectives here in this law are set out in Article 1 and this is, for example, importing new equipment and modern technologies, introducing new production processes and new products, modernising, increasing exports, saving energy, strengthening information activities and so on. So there are clear goals, there are even from these objectives and branches of the economy that should be encouraged because it is of state interest. But is it really so, i.e. If such high and noble goals are really achieved, it is a big question because today, by this amendment of the law, we find that the economy of the Republic of Croatia cannot be developed by the promotion of trade. We have agreed with this since the beginning and claimed that Croatia cannot develop quickly if only trade is encouraged. It is far easier to open a shopping chain and sell import goods in it than to open a factory that will encourage and develop domestic production. It is therefore good that, seeing the really growing trade deficit of Croatia, the Ministry of Economy has decided to put a little bit of emphasis on the promotion of trade and to shift such quality incentives to the production branches of the economy. What has been left here as a good exception for us is that tourism continues to be significantly encouraged, but we also need to be very careful here. It is not a fact that increasing tourism traffic in Croatia for the time being usually means increasing imports. We still haven't found an appropriate formula to place domestic goods more through tourism, but, unfortunately, it usually ends with an increase in import goods for the preparation of the season or during it. The other thing that matters here is the question that we are actually protecting in tourism, or whose investments we are actually encouraging. If we have a foreign hotel owner who imports foreign goods and who may be hiring foreign labour, we do not have to protect and encourage such entrepreneurs. What we must encourage in tourism is the development of small family hotels that are well started, in which Croatia has a great chance and which actually benefits Croatia's advantages in the right way, which is a preserved environment, it is a heritage and it is an offer of indigenous values. However, when we put it that way, either way we look at what we really need to encourage in tourism, and these are small family hotels, whether we look at which branches of the economy are the most promising, and these are the ones that are mentioned here. But not everything in them, but what's closer to what we call a medium and small economy. Then a fundamental question arises, is this really the kind of law that we are instigating? According to us, the limit for the application of this law is still too high. So here it is said that it is necessary to invest at least 10 million kunas in order to obtain a tax relief of just 7% of the profit tax per 10 years with 30 employees and 20 million kunas of investment gives a 3% tax with 50 employees, etc., etc. We believe that by respecting the good intentions that are both in this law and in this law it is better to have a thousand small companies with 10 jobs than 50 or 100 large ones with 30 jobs in this law. I'm afraid, therefore, Mr. Minister, that even with these changes from the woods, we can't see the trees. So what is needed is, together with all this together, the concept of developing undeveloped areas needs to be discussed in the Assembly. Croatia needs a full law on undeveloped areas, and we will also prepare our amendments to this law pending the second reading. So we give this bill conditional support and make sure they experience a large number of amendments in the final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32526	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go. Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32527	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. I don't doubt it, and I think we all agree that this law should be supported in the first reading because the fact that without enough investment we simply won't manage to curb still very high unemployment in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to this law, I would still like to hear from the ministers who are the reasons why still the state administration, I think of the state administration and all those who are from commercial courts and beyond, which should mean one way to support foreign investments and to speed up and facilitate the process of opening up new companies especially because it is said in the law here, I personally find it unwarranted, that support for foreign investment, i.e. for investments in general, can go to new commercial companies. I don't think it makes any sense because even companies that are already operating, and they invest in new programmes and, as a profit unit, separate that part of which they want to invest and open new jobs, I don't see any reason why they're not candidates, especially since the government that promised to big bells is still not the stop shop open so that in one place and very fast it can be helped to open new companies and get all the necessary permits to do so. In addition, here's an example of a Varazdin firm, I'm going to ask why there can't be a company that deals with trade among other things. We have a company that has opened up new spaces, invested, and it deals with imports of steel, limes and everything else, and it also has the processing of limes for the domestic market. So there's still extra work to be done, which is why a lot of expensive equipment had to be introduced. On such an example, although the area is mostly trade, it is invested in new production jobs. Thus, there are ways and opportunities for any special regulations to be considered and to be helpful. In this morning's debate, Mr. Chehok also spoke of the possibility of exorcism. I think it's still quite an interesting possibility, but it needs to be seen from a constitutional position. He spoke of the Varazdin airport, which in itself is of not only county or city importance, it certainly belongs to buildings of state importance. The airport is a prerequisite for the construction of sports planes. I get it. It's our custom. As soon as it is heard or placed in the spatial plan that a particular area will be for any industrial or any other construction, the land price increases rapidly. It's the legitimate right of all those who have their land, all trying to earn in that chain. I am now interested in Mr. Minister's comment and attitude if he can express it on behalf of the Government, because there is now a request from the city of Varazdin and towards the County Assembly to proceed with the extradition procedure. It is clear to us that by law, according to the current laws of this country, there is no such simple condition because the production of aircraft parts or small sports planes is not of at least this moment of state interest. It would certainly be a great shame to have a significant investor who intends to open hundreds of new jobs and that of production, to leave the Republic of Croatia and I would like to hear a comment as to whether there is a possibility that perhaps but with clearly prescribed criteria and rules when it can be set off possibly in the extradition process. What is particularly important is that it is a complete infrastructure related to the promotion of investment. It seems to me that the state can and must influence through its public companies that perhaps the cheaper price of connections to electricity, access roads and all others is helping to boost investment. That's one way. It is clear to me that this has so far been done through business zones, however precisely because of land prices often take place or because of the lack of more in business areas of quality and relatively accessible land we have the case that one Italian company that has a good facility in Međimurje, which now builds near Varazdin also brings the end of the construction of the stocking factory, they have gone to another location because of the expensive land but not only the land, the problem is also that infrastructure. What is the possibility that the government, through its companies, means public, utility companies from the Croatian electricity industry and beyond, encourages such investments because often, despite the good wishes and goodwill of the local self-government unit, they often give even free land. However, the communal equipment that is quite expensive is in what way to equip it, because the prices needed for this part of the electricity and everything else often exceed the land price multiple times, and I think it would be a good move for the government to do so in a business relationship with its companies. It is clear to me that companies must be profitable in business, but then the Government can, knowingly or with its own payment, make it possible to build such a factory of particular interest for the development of a municipality, city or whole region to then enter and help. So, my colleague Arlovic talked a lot on behalf of the SDP club, and it seems to me that the second reading can be answered to these few questions, and I think in that case, such a law could pass, but I think there is still a lot of work to be done on them until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32528	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32529	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. This law as the first Investment Encouragement Act was adopted in July and here, in the light of its changes and certain quantifications in these slightly more than four years of their application. It is obvious that the time has come to intervene in this law, whether such changes are sufficient or perhaps something more should be done. So, there should be a change, but I suggest and suggest that one inventory should actually be made of all the incentives for liberation that we don't call them all, which we have from income tax or income tax for craftsmen to those special laws relating to the area of special state care, the area of mountain-mountan areas, the Law on mountain-mountan areas, which will soon cease to apply, the special Law on the city of Vukovar. So we have a few places and this law on encouraging investment in several places actually opportunities that our entrepreneurs can use, so we really should make one inventory, see the effects of that, those measures that give good effects to keep, those that may be more questionable to change and add new ones. When it comes to incentives or different tax exemptions, then always the short-term effect when we have a reduction in income in the state budget and what long-term benefits it brings, these long-term benefits are multiple. Therefore, incentives should meet more criteria and depending on how one government or one state is committed to the economy, such incentives should be. In the first place, we would be most interested in Croatia, I would say, in the first place we should even say employment regardless of what it does not always bring high profits. Given our high unemployment rates. It should certainly stimulate new technologies that bring new knowledge and make greater profits, but it is of great importance for Croatia and for the even development of all parts of the country. We see here that we have huge deviations and that state should intervene and in a way that in these areas specific measures or 100% amounts is funded by certain projects that will not be found by entrepreneurs who will invest in them. So, from the infrastructure maybe something else, which is not financially capable of regional and local self-government. All those programmes that encourage, which will be treated as export programmes, are also important for Croatia. It's also a question of when investors come and where they come from. They primarily come where there is good infrastructure, where it is a good geographical position for their products so that they can be distributed to a wider market, not only Croatia. We should also take care of those investors who will distribute production from Croatia towards the southeast. For us, this could be a significant joint investment between our partners and our foreign partners. It is important for the decision of an investor in which the education of the workforce will come, as well as the cost of the investment itself. Therefore, from land which must be purchased to the price of infrastructure, to labour prices, etc. So it is always necessary to look individually at every investor that comes, so it may well be this way to formulate Article 7 in these amendments. Of course, while those basic terms and conditions should be prescribed by law, it should not be left to a regulation or merely that, on the basis of some subjective, sometimes, evaluations are decided by one ministry and proposed by the Government. I think we should say more about giving state-owned real estate to potential investors. We have enormous values mainly in construction buildings and land, in buildings and land that I do not seem to be able to use local or regional self-government in such a way as to buy it from the State-owned Real estate fund. First of all, I mean those parts that refer to properties that were or were still in the Department of Defense. So it seems to me that maybe we should regulate this Law and say under what conditions, is it leasing, is it a rent, is it perhaps a concession without compensation, but under certain other conditions. So I suggest that we may bring about changes to this Law in the second reading, and that by the end of the year we see what we should do in the whole of this part, which is about encouraging investment, certain tax exemptions, reliefs and so on, through several of these laws that I have counted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32530	Thank you very much. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32531	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Investments because of the fact that the existing Law adopted in 2000 did not bring about the expected effects. Between 2001 and 2003, over 60% of the value and investment projects relate to foreign investment in commercial activity. The regional dispersion of investment projects is also not satisfactory because over 90% of the capital of these projects refers to the region of Zagreb and northwestern Croatia. This alone has not achieved the desired effects in the field of employment, in areas where unemployment is the most pronounced and where gross domestic product per capita is the lowest, i.e. significantly below the average of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore consider the fundamental objective of this proposed law to ensure encouraging measures and incentives that will encourage domestic entrepreneurs to invest in processing and production activities, especially in areas below the average of development, and also to create clear conditions and a competitive environment for foreign investors. This is explicitly stated in Article 1 of this proposal, which states that the holders of the incentive measures of tax and customs relief may be newly established companies where the revenues from the commercial activity do not constitute a major part. Article 2 of the same article allows existing companies to use incentive measures and reliefs, but if investment relates to tourism activity, and on a proposal from the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Special attention is given to encouraging employment, both for the creation of new jobs and for the vocational education or retraining of a large number of unemployed for job-seeking purposes. This Law also changes the model of incentives for new jobs and vocational education and retraining. The existing Investment Encouragement Act adopted in 2000 provides for a Fund for those purposes that has neither been established nor any company that has acquired the status of the holder of the incentive measures could benefit them. Instead of the provided Fund, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship shall take over directly the promotion and employment activities, as well as the monitoring obligation, the spending of the appropriations. It is particularly important to note that the implementation of these measures, the already provided appropriations in the 2005 budget, is being implemented. The paper in this proposal in relation to the existing law is additional incentive measures for projects of particular economic interest for the Republic of Croatia, which are the provision of grants to the holders of incentive measures. Investment of assets owned by the Republic of Croatia in the holder of the incentive measures. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal of the Republic of Croatia acquires shares or shares of the promoters which significantly raises the attractiveness of the Republic of Croatia as an investment destination in the region and beyond. The government will approve these measures if: these investments, if these investments are relevant for overall economic development and employment, to contribute to regional development, to be relevant for areas of particular national interest, to contribute to the development of the economic branch in which it is invested. I think this bill clearly expresses interest in the development of the economy, in increasing the capital equipment of work, in increasing productivity and production. And finally, as I have already said, I support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law and I suggest that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship draw up a summary of the incentive measures, the possibilities and conditions of their use and their association with the reliefs prescribed by the Tax on Profits Act. Since many entrepreneurs do not follow the web pages, such a summary as a transparent and comprehensible brochure would bring encouraging measures to the economy, potential investors in directing their investments and make a significant contribution to attracting foreign investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32532	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Jure Bitjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32533	Dear President, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act is one of the laws of the economic sphere that we have discussed and made decisions in the last year and in order to promote economic activity, new employment, modernising business, increasing exports, competition in the Croatian economy and increasing the overall social, gross social product. On the Committee on Economy from some outside members could also be heard that this should in some way be a roof law while my thinking that this is one... economic laws linked to each other and as one of the instruments of economic policy of this government and the Ministry of Economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Amendments and additions of the law in question have a kind of formal dimension and on the other hand have a material dimension. When it comes to the formal aspect, it is primarily reflected in the amendments to the laws that the existing law, which was passed in 2000, is in line with the legal provisions... with the laws that were passed after that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where I think of the profit tax law. Namely, where, when it comes to tax reliefs regulated by that law in Articles 21 to 25 and when it comes to the incentives that are regulated in Article 26. The profit tax law. So it's kind of unquestionably the same thing that's in the law we're discussing. Moreover, when it comes to the State aid Act and the State aid regulations adopted in 2003 and in view of the competition law, some provisions of the existing law should also be deleted. What is most important and important to me is the content dimension itself, the material dimension of these amendments to the Law, the amendment and the addition of the law. The emphasis is on basic companies but on companies in whose structure, when it comes to the total revenues of such companies, commercial activity, i.e. trade as such, cannot be a major part, in other words, an accent is placed on production and in that sense I believe that this is one novelty on the existing provisions, the provisions of the existing law. On the other hand, I would stress what we also consider important is the investment of state property, property owned by the Republic of Croatia, the grant of grants, by giving greater incentives. If this is of particular national interest and in this way the Republic of Croatia acquires business shares, i.e. shares in companies, promoters and may say in agreement and is part of the policy when it comes to public private partnership. Since I come from an economically passive end, then I believe that the provisions of this Act or the amendment of the law when it comes to regional development have a certain weight and we simply expect from the Dalmatian Zagora in the Cetina region in this direction certain measures of the Government and they are given an indication in this bill. I would certainly point out that our expectations when it comes to working zones and 400 working zones that we have read about these days that this is not one trend of fashion, but that this is one reality, and I am convinced that in many units of local self-government, mainly from the area of special state interest, with the support of and the basis of this Law and the zone, will be realised. I would certainly like to highlight the good decisions of the Government, serious, systematic, thorough work of the Ministry of Economy, labour and entrepreneurship on this matter. And let me get this straight. Amendments and additions to the law are important, meaning from a formal point of view, especially from a content and material point of view. I support them as part of the National Programme for Encouragement of Entrepreneurship as part of the economic policy of this government. Over the past year, the government and the Ministry of Economy have created assumptions and made the shifts that these amendments to the law in question mean a new step towards promoting economic recovery, increasing the social gross product and above all the even development of the Republic of Croatia. It certainly takes all the laws, a set of laws concerning the economy and economic activities to connect each other, and I am sure that the Ministry of Economy will do this job in a professional, correct and thorough way and that we, as advocates, will have this law in final reading that will surely mean a single shift, a new step when it comes to encouraging the economy and employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32534	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32535	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, allow only a few points to be further emphasized in an individual debate. What is important about this Law, and I think it is never too much to stress is the production and processing activity that will and is planned to be encouraged in the future, so unlike the trade that flooded Croatia, which has flooded the growing consumer centres and therefore by looking at investments and employment over 60% of total investment refers to this commercial activity and it is good that we at least want to change this trend in our efforts. Another thing I would like to stress is the regional dispersion of investment. We cannot be satisfied with the existing situation where about 80% of the investment is taking place in the Zagreb region, so in Zagreb and the surrounding area, and they end up like my Carlovack County, such as Sisak-Moslavina Lika, that I do not talk about Eastern Slavonia, Vukovar-Srijem County remain in that part of the suspended. Of course, no one should be blamed at this time but given all the difficulties: war, suffering and all that they have given in the Homeland War, although it has already been a long time since the war I believe that state measures should seek to stimulate these areas of special state interest, therefore, through additional investment and through new employment. That is why this principle of even, regional development is one of the essential, essential foundations and in the new proposal to amend and supplement the law. An important contribution should be made to local self-government, which we did not mention very much today. It is not directly mentioned anywhere in this bill proposal but no state measures and state incentives will help if the city's chieftains, county or municipal alone through entrepreneurship centres, entrepreneurship zones through infrastructure building do not make assumptions that these incentives from the state level can also come to the local level. We have great examples, so in all parts of the country where local self-government contributed, it created these assumptions and where industrial zones are zero. But we also have to admit that we have environments that have all the assumptions for the development of industry, for additional investment. However, they themselves have not done or do not make enough for foreign investments to come. And I conclude with one thought, and I believe that the minister with his associates will consider the idea that he might try to build himself into the law of opportunity and that existing companies can benefit from encouraging measures. It is really hard for me to see why someone who works, intends to build a new factory must start a new company if, therefore, all those criteria and all the elements of these proposed measures are intended to be realized, so I believe that there will be time and opportunity until the second reading, until the final proposal and in this part make an analysis and possibly install into the Final Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32536	Thank you very much, dear representative Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32537	I thank Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the representative of the ministry. I have to say a few words in this debate today about the Law on Amendments and the Supplements to the Encouragement Act. The fact is that the Law adopted in 2000 made some shifts with regard to the promotion of meanings in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, but also the fact that through these laws there was a illogicality to be corrected and therefore I thank the Ministry for launching an initiative to supplement the Law, for a partial change, where more uniform developments will be made possible in one way. What is important to say and underline are the words of the minister who said that 60% of all these incentives in the past period have gone to fostering in a commercial activity that cannot be accepted in the Republic of Croatia because I think we should encourage the most economic activities that bring new profits, which are production and service activities. We also need to criticise the current section in view of the right to encourage 15 thousand kuna per employee. However, as this law amends and adds to the laws, it brings a very good reduction in investment levels from 10 million to 4 million kunas, they bring very well that it can be entered into the incentive system with a smaller number of 30 employees, means new to 10 employees but also prevents the use of these measures for non-productive companies. Also, measures for a more balanced development of the Republic of Croatia and when we take this into account, together with income and profit tax, are then visible through the legislation of this Croatian government to take far greater care of areas that have been under aggression and areas that today have no major economic activity, meaning along the border areas along the border towards the south and east. However, I must be a little critical and say what is missing in this law. The lack of measures for domestic companies, existing businesses, and the lack of measures for small entities means small businesses, crafts that are oriented to production and export. In particular, I would like to underline production and exports because we practically know very well that in the Republic of Croatia, about 250 thousand employees are employed in crafts and these small businesses, employees who are many turned towards exports and where fresh capital, fresh money is introduced in the Republic of Croatia, and then cared by other economic operators in the Republic of Croatia. I also have to say that measures should be considered for those companies that have fewer employees, 5 to 20 employees and who do not have an accumulative investment capacity greater than 4 million kunas, which is the lower limit and practically opening up a new business opportunity for it to be seen through certain measures for such business entities in which the Republic of Croatia can help. I must mention for the company that there are many measures in the Republic of Croatia to encourage agriculture and tourism, and I am sorry that for smaller companies 5 to 10, 20 employees who are trades, which are exports, which are production has no good quality measures, and I hope that the Ministry will find the opportunity to find opportunities in this part of these small profitable companies to find opportunities to encourage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32538	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32539	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Incentived by some of the debates held here today in the Parliament, I will give up the debate already prepared and I will focus only on one of the objectives of economic policy and strategy where this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Encouragement Act would have to be an instrument of implementation of this economic policy. And that's regionally uniform economic development and employment. It is quite evident that over the past decade this has not been possible and it is clear to all of us that one Istria and western Croatia is quite different economically developed from one Banovina. And it is also clear in all economic and economic considerations that one country must insist on uniform economic development and employment. Because otherwise big emigrations occur, areas remain uninhabited and then the rule of law in these areas has very little impact. But to achieve this goal is easier to say than to do, therefore these changes and additions are one of the instruments to do so for several reasons. First of all, I welcome the decision and the Ministry's proposal that the holders of these promotional measures of tax and customs benefits be newly founded companies. Why, although there have been many others here who have spoken differently, gentlemen, why don't we make one plant of a Varazdin company in the court, Petrinja Glini, be it a daughter and it's quite possible according to our Positive laws on commercial societies in order to contribute to the development of these areas as well as to realize the incentive measures that are possible. It is clear that this is also an incentive to start new companies because it is known to all of us in the economy that as banks, business banks refer to new start-ups and how difficult these start-ups come up with funds that would enable them to operate themselves, and about the development that we don't even talk about. It is particularly important that this section of the law that says incentives can also be achieved by existing companies dealing with tourism. I won't particularly explain it because there's been a lot of talk about how, but I would support the proposal to include the Ministry of Commerce along with craftsmanship, small rural economies and everything that goes along with it. I particularly welcome the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship's intention to take over directly the jobs of promoting employment, opening up labour measures, vocational education or retraining. Why? Because we have very unpleasant experiences over the last four years about how the funds were managed and how these funds were being managed and where they went. Just one example of a company in Petrinja, where 28 million kuna went from the Regional Development Fund through the purchase of "equipment in Italy" and ended up knowing where, in the Kingdom, in Republika Srpska and Montenegro. I no longer welcome the idea that the Ministry puts it under its cap and now someone will say, and no one is afraid to give God that maybe those funds could end either in Petrinja or in Glina, let alone in Vukovar. Can you imagine what would be the sin of this government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Economy? I particularly welcome Article 7, i.e. amending Article 9 which states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy, can increase the incentive measures in two ways. And it is particularly important this other way, it is an investment of assets owned by the Republic of Croatia in a commercial company. First of all, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is dealing with a ballast asset that does not bring income, which is the most expensive capital. The Government of the Republic of Croatia then becomes an active participant of investment activities co-owner of companies and achieves a strategic objective unlike some who have claimed otherwise, so-called. Public private partnership. What is particularly important for the area of special state concern. And I would end up with one sentence, finally, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Economy will seduce order into funds and the way funds are distributed from funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32540	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Miroslav Korenika, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32541	Thank you very much. Speaking of the unequal development of the Republic of Croatia, possibly referring to northwestern Croatia, Mr Nenadic said it was a different economic development. Yes, dear fellow, our employment is somewhat smaller. However, I must say that the salaries are 30%, the average salary in Varazdin County is 30% lower than Croatia's average. Therefore, and if we want to invest here is the Varteks of Varteks, which is all in difficulty, there is no drive in other parts of Croatia, but in areas of special state care it provides jobs. However, the problem is that these areas are often neither quality nor deadlines, nor those cooperatives meet their requirements. And as for business zones and everything else, because several colleagues have reported earlier, it may be better in northwestern Croatia, but it's a matter of people, mentality, because people have started to turn themselves to do something, not just expect help from the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32542	Replica response, Honored Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32543	My esteemed colleague, Korenik, has only respected one segment when it comes to corporate balance sheets, which is wages. It is quite evident that this is happening to you too, I believe in many cases that private-owned companies and craftsmen report minimum wages, so this is not a realistic indicator of the state of the economy in a region. I would talk first of all about the gross social product of a region, I would talk about income per capita, then that's the way we can valorize the situation in a region yes or no.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32544	Thank you. Final review, Minister of Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelic, please welcome ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32545	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank you for this expressed interest and for your discussions on this law on amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act. This is about the fact that this Law and this amendment are very important, important for our economy, but most of you have been determined, therefore, about the necessity of changing the existing Law, which is here I must now say in that opening statement, maybe I wasn't precise when I spoke about 32 companies, about 2 billion and 400 million investments, that's the end of 2004, in your materials are the data of 25 companies that used incentives, the data relating to 2003, so that was a mistake to update that data. But there's one thing I'd like to say here is that the practical work on this law took place in the autumn of last year, and finally that it is absolutely in line with all the important and resolutions, so to the ministries, but also to the associations of professional businessmen, so to the economic chambers, that it is analysed and what appears to be in the area, it works in neighbouring countries. And that is why I also want to say once again that it is very unserious and inappropriate for someone to consider this work as unsatisfactory and useless. I think all the luck it was just a voice today, like that. I think that, indeed, through the changes in the profit tax that you adopted last year, already part of this Law is practically working on this Act and adopted. What is important to say also, this Law is one of the tools used by our government, all of us together to encourage investment. If, and we are, we also seem to agree on the fact that encouraging investment necessary for economic growth and development, some tools are defined through certain laws, this is one of those, but not the only one, you mentioned it we have and the law, and there will be soon changes to the Law on or the new Law on areas of special state interest, we also have a programme and policy of the Croatian Government regarding the construction of entrepreneurship zones, we also have a policy that we lead through the definition of favourable credit lines between the other and what is mentioned here in the debate, and these are credit lines for new technologies, very important and important both according to production, they are only 2% possible for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, through HBOR and large companies of favourable credit lines exist. Also, the policy that these governments are talking about the availability of assets as state property, which should be put into service of exactly this kind of investment, etc. So these are different tools, different policies that are involved, stakes in investment policy in Croatia. And so when we talk about it, is it possible to see it in one law... certainly not. Is there a coordination? There is. And that's why it's been moving so intensely since this year, and these days, both the human and organisational teams of the investment-enhancing agency are on the move. Because this is where someone will come and find out what in one country, which in Croatia seems through different policies to encourage investment in a particular region, a place. And that is exactly where this coordination will be achieved, but it is absolutely a good proposal to count on one material all these policies stimulating investment, various different laws and programmes implemented in Croatia to be and in one I would say to the prospectus written and that everyone can read it clearly and be well aware of it. That's why when we know that we're going intensively to build entrepreneurship zones that should be a place for such investments. When we know that this government has also determined that all unused state property, land, non-functional objects are exactly the priority direction towards the economy, then perhaps the issue of expropriation of individual land is a little bit and questionable, for the reason that I hold first of all that we need to put into office everything we have, and now it's empty, abandoned, and there's unfortunately a lot of such spaces. I also want to mention one more policy to this government that it is implementing, but I think we will soon have it through one program and I would say quite clearly, it is the policy of state-owned companies that are working in the function of exactly encouraging investment, that is an example of just Varazdin, we can talk about the free zone, about the participation of HEP, so there in a way to enable, ensure as easily as possible, therefore, the realisation, the investments that are in that free zone are of great quality and good. Therefore, I think we should all work on all the institutions of state and local self-government, which someone here mentioned for sure in order to create a positive atmosphere environment for encouraging investment in Croatia. And when we talk about whether a new company or not, so all of your comments and suggestions will be seriously analyzed, see what we can do. But I want to say that our stop shop project that goes under the FINA first step has just to simplify, speed up company registration. So this is what needs to be the first step, it will be and it will be so very much in function and this law among other things, that in a short time at one place with a little cost and little paper can be quickly registered by the company. Also when we're talking, why the new company? We must bear in mind that here through this incentive is particularly prominent and put on new investments, new capital, what Croatia needs, new investments, new programmes, new projects, and then new employment, all together clearly in the function of what we want to continue these good trends that were achieved last year and the indicators that we have and yet we have really for the first year encouraging data with 3.7% of industrial production growth, with a 17% increase in exports, and imports of all of about 5.4%. That's the trend we want to continue. One on, of course, is laws like this that encourage investment and that investment in production that is export-oriented, capable of exporting. So once again I will also say this Law is clear and precise some dilemmas solved or corrected by what we have seen through the realization of the existing law that it is not going well. And that is to direct incentives towards production and clearly define what we want to encourage production. Yeah, and part of the store, but it can't be too heavy, so most of it has to be production. We also clearly reduced the investment threshold from 10 million to 4 million, the number of workers from 30 to 10, we opened the space for smaller companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, and we made it clear how the incentives for employment will be paid. We've secured funds in the budget. It is known in which way and who can achieve for the newly employed such means and how. A special record will be kept on this. We also opened the possibility that projects of special state interest should be encouraged by special decisions of the Croatian government. I think it is a very precise and clearly defined framework for what this Law should do, but it is certain that there are other laws and it is absolutely necessary that, within the framework of this Investment Encouraging Agency, one coordinated work of all bodies of institutions that aim to grow the economy, grow production and grow Croatian exports, which I think is necessary and without which we cannot talk about a stable economic situation in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32546	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 229. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please engage. You can vote. The result? I find that with 91 votes for, 3 abstentions and 14 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32549	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 17th session held on February 1st Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forest Seeds and Wood Seedlings with the final proposal of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been held by the Committee on the Implementation of the Law Proposal as a parent working body and supported the proposal of the Proposer on the implementation of the emergency procedure in its adoption. Following the opening explanation of the applicant's representative, the Committee supported the adoption of that law in the debate for the purpose of enabling its adoption to be supervised by a forest inspection established by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management Act. However, the debate held that this Law does not need to be burdened by the provisions of the article... and 66.b, thank you, since the conditions for performing the tasks of the forest inspector and the national forest inspector and the official identity of the forest inspector have already been prescribed by the Forest Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the bell.]] It is also pointed out that the tasks of the forest inspector and the state forest inspector in the section relating to the control of the production, use and processing of forest seed are not sufficiently clear. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forest Seeds and Forest Seedlings. Also at the 17th session held on 1 February, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of the properties of forest trees and shrubs was also discussed. It is also in accordance with Article 87 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were held by the Committee as a parent working body. Following the opening statement of the applicant's representative, the Committee supported the adoption of that law in the debate. Since it is the same, it will create legal assumptions for the supervision of forest inspection, which is in accordance with the Law on the Construction and Circular of Central Authorities of the State Administration established in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. On the basis of the discussion held by the Committee on Agriculture, the forestry of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law amending the law on the recognition of the properties of forest trees and bushes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32550	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are students in the gallery of the higher grade primary school in Perusic with their teachers and teachers who pulled out of the snow like that, so let's welcome them. And let me, in the name of the Croatian Parliament and of all of us, I would give Mark Murgić a book about the Parliament so that he can see a little bit and share it with his friends and friends. [[Applause.]] Here's Marco. I'll give it to him now. Well, let's say hello to Mark. I ask Mr. Baby to, [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32551	I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club Vladimir Kurecic. Here you go. First Mato Stimac and then part Mr. Kurečić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In July 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Recognition of Forest Trees and Thunders, which was in line with the European Union guidelines, thus creating a legal framework for the regulation of the recognition of its forest herbs to international standards. The Republic of Croatia has significant forest wealth. Forests and forest land occupy about 45% of the total surface area of the Republic of Croatia. Forest management includes a simple and expanded biological reproduction of forests and extensive reproduction of plantations and forest cultures. And the assessment is that there are a lot of surfaces that are interesting for shaming. For the establishment of plantations from selected topol and tree willow clones are particularly suitable conditions in the area of the Croatian Danube and Baranja. And very successful have shown new selections of tree willows in the area of Posavina as a pre-culture in the restoration of valuable species of leaves such as oak locusts and Polish clear. The aim of the forest profession is to introduce other interesting species into production to improve the fund in our forests. Our forestry has dozens of selected topol and willow clones belonging to different selections of domestic and domestic species and their hybrids. For the purposes of urban forestry and horticulture, there are also a large number of domestic and imported species of leaves and brushes. In Croatian forestry on a scientific basis, much is done to improve forest seed production in order to improve waste production and raise culture and plantation. To that end, several clone seed plantations of different indigenous species of forest trees were established. The efficacy of selection other than by phenotype should be verified by genotypic selection. It enables the establishment of improved clone and biclonal seed plantations and special plantations for the production of semi-species hybrid seeds for the purpose of producing tested seed. The adoption of the proposed law prescribed the procedures for the recognition of the newly established properties of domestic and foreign origin and allowed for greater involvement of science in professional production and confiscation work. The choice of a larger number of properties enables the creation of the most favourable mix that can be successfully used in ecologically different habitats in our forests. The new establishment and the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy has returned to the forest inspection under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. The current law regulates inspection of the implementation of this law to carry out economic inspection in accordance with the State Inspectorate Act. While this proposal regulates amendments to the law that the tasks are carried out by state and forest inspectors at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. This creates legal conditions for carrying out inspection work in this area in accordance with the work of this ministry. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32553	Thank you very much. There's another part of Mr. Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32554	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This second part of this united debate by these two points relates to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forest Seeds and Forest Seedlings. The Act establishing a detour of the central authorities of the state administration requires the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy to carry out inspection tasks relating to forestry. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the laws on forest seed and forest seedlings have been proposed in order to legally regulate the supervision of forest inspection established in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, based on the current state of inspection and the necessary necessary changes and improvements in the area of surveillance. All with the aim of establishing order in the area of production of management, use and transport of forest seed and forest seedlings in the foresting and refurbishing of forests. As well as production, transport and use of forest seed and seedlings for other purposes. For example. Urban forestry, the production of Christmas trees and the like, with this law giving the possibility and obligation for the minister to prescribe the rules of the game on this plan. And on some of the inaccuracies pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which was just before in the report from the sitting and said. In this proposal, which is now on the agenda, administrative oversight of the implementation of this law and lower regulations will be carried out by the ministry. The inspection will be carried out by the Ministry's forest inspection. And inspection in the area of seed and seedlings will be carried out by the State Inspectorate in accordance with special law. Which is already known. The forest inspection activities will be carried out by forest inspectors in the departments' district units. As first-degree inspection and state inspectors of the ministry as second-degree inspection. This proposal amends and amends the law provides for conditions that inspectors at both levels must meet. Thus, in addition to the forestry college of the forest direction and the state-run expert examination, it is three and 10 years of work experience in the profession, respectively. Furthermore, the minister is obliged to prescribe a specific part of the national expert examination programme. Furthermore, in this proposal, the duties and obligations of the forest inspector, as well as eight points of business and the obligation of the State forest inspector, which, in addition to other matters, oversees the work of forest inspection in the field offices, resolves complaints from that level, monitors the use of seeds and seedlings from imports, and submits requests for the initiation of an infringement procedure for breach of the provisions of this law on other rules. In this proposal against a forest inspector's solution, an appeal can be made, a state forest inspector and an administrative dispute may be initiated against the State forest inspector's solution. The proposed law in question describes the way in which the supervision is carried out. Taking samples for analysis, confiscation of documents and cases, as well as fines to punish natural or legal persons in the event of infringement of the law or offences. In short. The proposed solutions in this proposal for a law amending and supplementing forest seed law and forest seedlings will be brought into line with the law on the establishment and part-round of the central authorities of the state administration. The competencies of forest inspection at both levels will create conditions for the introduction of order in the production, use and transport of forest seeds and forest crops. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community's club will support this bill, given that it is justified economic reasons for adopting an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32555	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, the right Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32556	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I'm really sorry that there are no representatives of the agriculture, forestry and water economy ministry at least Mr. Miroljub Stojanovic could have been present here when these two are on their way. Why do I say that? Because we at the HSP Club, unlike the HDZ Club, do not share such enthusiasm with these legal proposals. So I'm going to speak on behalf of the HSP Club from two important points of view. First he's from a formal point of view. If we're going to talk about the formal position ourselves we know yesterday we heard a valid law on the formation of the Ministry of State Administration and the state administrations was passed 22. 12. In 2003, it means at the second session after the constitution of this 5 calls for the Parliament. In this law, we have been told that these inspections are being transferred to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and the water economy. And because of that, there's no excuse that we've waited a year and three months for the ministry to make it a formal approach to change and supplementing the applicable laws, so this is about two laws. Law on forest seed and forest seedlings and the Law on the recognition of the properties of forest trees and shrubs. It took them over a year to amend three four provisions. And yet from the formal point of view, they did it badly. Why I say bad. In view of the fact that the solutions in terms of the conduct of the inspector in terms of determining the actual state of record-making, the adoption of a solution, the taking of other measures have been better resolved and in an appropriate manner in the law on the State Inspectorate. And here we now have a situation that has been formally tried to resolve something in the Law on Forest Seeds and Forest Seedlings. Until this law on recognition of property has tried nothing to resolve the inspector's work, it is indicated that he will comply with the provisions of the forest law. And watch out for the basic forest law is from the 1990s with a few changes and additions. Because here to say it's one total irresponsibility of the state administration. The D.O.D. And that ministry, if we remember, has an obligation to develop a new forest law and many other things that are being presented in the government's programme. The only thing they've done so far, and they keep promising us the Forest Law, they've made that famous hunting law that we've all criticized here that the government has withdrawn it. Therefore, this is quite irresponsible and I will now return from another point of view to the Croatian Party's rights solutions that we have given in our law to the formation of ministries and state administrations means in 9 months 2003. We saw that the government was slowly moving on to all of our solutions we had the state administration to protect and rescue, so we had it inappropriate for us that there were European Integration Ministrys because it was visible that they had no, no administrative or other official jobs, and now the government had gone along with that solution yesterday. Now we're coming into another position, and that's where inspection services are supposed to be. The inspection services if we want to fight corruption, nepotism and all other forms must be separated from the ministries, must be separated from the ministry and tied to the prime minister of the state. That's the only way to make order in this country. Why do I say that? Because it is the responsibility of the ministries to monitor the situation in a particular area and the second is to carry out administrative supervision. A small number of ministries are doing administrative surveillance today, and they don't know what administrative surveillance is. And now why am I saying that this kind of solution is what we're essentially creating a fertile soil for corruption? Why do I say that? Because it is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, it means that part of the administrative situation as well as inspection supervision. Let's just take another variant with the Croatian Forests, the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Forests is at the same time the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. According to such solutions, he is the chairman of the Supervisory Board, he is the secretary of state, the inspection is with him, they do certain things, normally Croatian forests are a large system that is connected to the ministry and again on the principle of "Kedija suing you, cadija and suing you". And in this way we are aware, we are creating a legal space for the development of corruption. Therefore, for us, rights are the most acceptable solution, such as Sweden and other countries, to have inspection services tied to the Prime Minister. Thus, the Prime Minister will at any moment know the true situation in a particular area, not get the haired reports of the ministries because which minister will write to the Prime Minister that he is weakly working, or which minister will write that he has given the order to act illegally so that the inspection does not do this, to see through the fingers, see through, see through, and thus we will only have the possibility that corruption will continue to rise and we will not achieve any smart results. As far as these other solutions are concerned, it is better not to talk about them and that is why the HSP Club cannot or will not support the laws, first of all, for this essential reason we will not vote to allow corruption in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32557	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, the right Mr. Representative Željko Ledinski. Here you go. ... Excuse the Croatian peasant parties, lapus. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32558	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's since Mr. Vice President said that on behalf of the party of law, I must say that this time, although there have often been words about certain views relating to the inspection of my colleague Kovacevic where I disagreed this time, I must say that I agree with the vast majority of his allegations that he has made here. And so, first of all, on behalf of the HSS Club, I would like to say a few words about these two bill proposals that come here after a year and a few days since they were supposed to be on our benches. So here you see we had today a mini-reshuffle of government and we haven't yet established what we should have established a long time ago because we've passed certain laws on the structure and the detour of central state bodies, etc. More than a year ago, and they still don't work on that bill. It's kind of strange that in such a way, practically here for 15 months, we've been waiting to form a government here, and we've already experienced a mini-recreation of the government and we haven't yet established it as we imagined it at the very beginning. In that part of the HSS Club is constantly protesting such a way of working that certain structures cannot be made at a certain time. And even when we look at that time, we should have brought in some other laws that were envisaged and highlighted at the very beginning, I am thinking first of all about the Law on the Forests that was announced, and we have been waiting a long time for it. First it was said at 6 months, then at 11, 12 is now waiting I don't know probably after local elections. Here's the obvious that we're announcing something that we're not able to do in time. As far as the amendments to the first Law on the Recognition of Property are concerned, he is practically apart from changing the name of the ministry, which I think should then practically change all the laws because we changed the names of the ministries and aligned with the new structure, which I don't think needs to be done, it is known that the competent ministry should do so. And as for the part-round work of inspections, inspection services, the HSS Club has advocated that the Forest and hunting inspection is found in the rest of the ministry, we continue to think that this is not a bad solution. However, the second part of the business that is related to it, which was just spoken of by my colleague Kovacevic, which I support, means that the head of it, means the State Secretary after the establishment of the inspection of forest and hunting practices, could not then do the job of the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Forests, especially because the Assembly of the Croatian Forests has transferred most of the powers of its detachment to the company's supervisory board. In this way, we are really coming into one collegiation of jurisdiction from the title of the Secretary of State, also from the position of the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the entire Supervisory Board comes practically and question the possibility of certain irregularities and the very reporting towards the Government and everything else that follows where the practical question is whether these reports that are then made objectively or yet in one way they can be haired and leave one unnecessary doubt, I do not think that is necessary. When it comes to this structure and these two laws, when they are adopted, we will still have a whole series of items that are not in line with the Part-Corruption Act, so we still need to wait until the next reading. And the still-resistant ministry will not have any problems solved in its work on jurisdiction and on the actions of the Forest and Hunting Inspectorate. And that's why it's our appeal from the HSS Club that we're dealing with this kind of technical matter not to deal with the entire mandate in the government's actions, but to really get it done in a short procedure. This could have been resolved in the first two months of the formation of the government, and not that now here after 15 months and the change of government we are still dealing with the formation and detour of certain ministries. This is why the HSS Club will support these laws and their adoption but once again I express one appeal that such things are no longer repeated and that we really have one operational ministry and everything with a complete structure of all its parts and that we can expect a more quality work of these ministries because otherwise we are reduced to having neither a quality inspection nor a quality ministry work, and as a result it is visible in proposing certain laws where we practically had to withdraw them from the procedure and then it is seen that there is something wrong in this segment. Here's so much on behalf of the HSS Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32559	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32560	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The amendments and additions to those laws are technical in nature and the consequences of the return of forest inspectors from the State Inspectorate to the re-organised forest inspection in the restricted ministry. It was made known by the recent Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, Parliament on 5 November 2004, "The National Journal" 160 since 18.11.2004. Those amendments and additions to the Forest Act are subject to conditions which must be met by persons in order to be able to carry out the tasks of the State Forest Inspectorate and the forest inspector. Their work is also part of the work, the way in which they are supervised and the criminal provisions are carried out. No need, I may be wrong, but I don't think this can be the subject of amending and supplementing the Law on Forest Seeds and Trees where the conditions for performing forest inspectors' duties are re-established. Articles 66a. and 66b. the proposal for an amendment. I also think that in the Law on Forests, the basis established and defined forest inspection should extend its jurisdiction to the tasks defined by these laws. It is interesting that the amendment and addition of the Law on the recognition of its forest seed provisions on forest inspectors are not listed as in the second proposal. We note that the Law on the Recognition of Forest Seeds was passed not so long ago and that it is in line with the regulations in that area in the European Union. We have before us the need to pass a new law on forest reproductive material, seed and seedlings that must comply with the regulations in the European Union. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, the Commission has appointed a commission to draft the new law with a deadline of 1 May. As shown in the above, we have almost every session of amendments and additions to the Law in the area of forestry that repairs the missed or poor and unequivocal work, as with the rejected proposal on hunting. According to everything it seems, this job will continue. That's why we at the HNS suggest that the laws they propose be as concrete and precise as possible and that there is no change in each session.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32561	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on these two agenda points.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32562	4. Final draft law amending the Law on the Recognition of Property, Forest Trees and Thunders, P.Z. No. 238, emergency procedure. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline and we will comply with Article 166. Rules of Procedure vote on him. The government has submitted an amendment to replace the word "and" in Article 2. Do we accept discussing this amendment? Please engage, we must vote. You can vote. The result? 97 for, 4 abstentions, 3 against. I'm opening a debate that I'm closing. I'm voting on that amendment. Please engage. We vote for the amendment, for the amendment. You can vote. The result? 93 for the amendment, 8 abstention, 3 against. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please engage. You can vote. The result? I find 91 for, 9 abstentions, 3 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of Property, Forest Trees and Thunders, along with the Amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32584	We move to the agenda point - The proposal for a decision on the resolution of the so far and the appointment of a new member of the National Council for Higher Education The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary Mr. Taker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32585	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen allow a brief explanation of this point. In fact, it's two joint decisions. At first glance, there's something rather dramatic about making appointments. Technically, it is, but it is actually one situation where we have found ourselves solely by the technical error of the service that serves this House of Commons. Namely, to remind the session in December of the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament appointed the National Council for Higher Education. He appointed his president and 12 members. Among them, among these 12 members were the names of Dr. Ivana Prskala, who was appointed by the Parliament on the candidate list. At one stage, a previous phase in the preparation of this proposal, so in the previous rules of procedure of parliamentary working bodies and governmental previous actions, the name of Mr Mate Buchar appeared. I say in one phase. If I remember correctly, I think it was the phase of the Assembly Committee on Science, Higher Education and Culture. On that, perhaps one more of these bodies of the Parliament, it was suggested that instead of Mr. Buchar, the team was appointed as Mr. Sprayo in the council. So already before this hall, before it came to this House before the proposal came here, the name of Mr. Ivan Prskal appeared on the list, and as we remember well, there was no comment on that name. If you'll let me tell you, there was no reason. So Mr. Doc. The spray, along with 12 of its colleagues and colleagues, was appointed to the Council by the House's decision. We were all very surprised when we read in "The People's Newspaper" that Mr. Bučar's name was on the list of members of the council where Mr. Spray's name was supposed to stand. This caused the inconvenience of all of us and Mr. Buchar, who is neither guilty nor debtor, nor Mr. Spray, and here we are in one unpleasant situation all together, we are convinced by the technical loss of someone else's. That's what's happening. I guess it's just that there's a lot of job-replaced disks with lists, and here we are in the situation we're in. If it is necessary to repeat Mr. Spray's résumé, I will gladly do so at your request. I can only inform you that Mr. Spray as an observer participates in all council meetings as an observer because he is not a member, monitors what is happening and awaits the decision of this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32586	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS and PGS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32587	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would immediately correct Mr. Secretary of State and say that there were also very serious objections to the composition proposed by you when we chose the National Council. Take a phonogram and read what I said then, and I will repeat here a part of this debate for the purpose of seeing in essence how we here in the Croatian Parliament sometimes raise our hands and tongues. Last Thursday, so 7 days ago, we had a report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education, and at that time we found something very important, that it is necessary, that it is inevitable, that it is mandatory that we essentially put the education strategy on the development strategy of Croatia, and then I said also when we chose members of the National Council, and now I will repeat. A year ago, the government correctly expressed its position on the development of this country and I remember well when Mr Sanader said that we are choosing primarily for the Adriatic orientation of Croatia. This means tourism, agriculture that will feed us and our many tourists, transport, information and communication technologies, remember E Croatian story, foreign languages etc. etc. That's what I said when we elected members of the National Council that it was inevitable that people of these professions would be in the National Council for Higher Education. But what happened? My colleagues and colleagues have been proposed, I don't deny that people are professional everyone in their area, but there's no one in the field of tourism, and there's only 13. There is no one in the area of agronomy, veterinary, maritime, information and communication technologies, foreign languages, etc. No one. In the National Council itself, most of the people present then raised their hands for two educators, for theologians, for three economists, for musicians, for mathematicians and a few other experts. Today, colleagues and colleagues, we resolve one of the two educators and appoint a new member of the professor of physical culture. So that's the strategic dimension of what we're doing, that's that great weight and quality that we're going to get now. I can't agree with that. And this argument, to me, that I've been working 27 years in higher education, is humiliating. That such technical failures can also make no hair fall off anyone's head. I'm going to suggest to my colleagues at the HNS-PGS Club that we refrain from voting because this kind of work really isn't good. We cannot expect this way that the education strategy will support quality any development strategy, nor the one that Mr Sanader proposed a year ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32588	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32589	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We didn't mean to speak on behalf of the SDP Club, but we were encouraged by the opening presentation of Mr. Secretary of State, as well as the recent debate we had here in this House on the report on the work of the former national councils. In fact, we at the SDP Club share a view similar to that of the HNS Club that it is not just a matter of technical failure, i.e. it is too serious a matter that could only be justified by technical failure. If we know some history that was about the appointments and this National Council, but also the National Science Council, when we came past the summer, some proposals that were withdrawn after several months, so we got a new appointment back sometime at the end of the fall of last year, which then came back here again, let me think here on December 4th. I don't think it's good for us to discuss in this way and in this way talk about so many important bodies and about science and higher education that are not just that, but exactly what our colleague Doric mentioned. They must have, if we want to move forward, and much greater importance for the general development dimension of Croatia. We personally at the SDP Club have nothing against either Docent Spray or a colleague we resolve, colleagues of Buchar. However, if we already wanted to go because, I say in the ministry, technical failure, we think that the reason is something else, in changing members and members of the National Council for Higher Education. If you had also needed to change some other members, we also mentioned this in the debate when we were appointed to this Council. We primarily think of a member named Nik Vidovic, who is the rehabilitation manager of the student centre and who is named according to the criteria that it is a person outside of the higher education system. All this, let me put it this way, tampering around the national councils shows that there is no clear vision of what is going to be done, that there is no real desire to do something concrete. Because if that were the case then this Council and a couple of excellence this Council and what else for science would be shown, in fact, for the excellence in Croatia that exists. Which, unfortunately, neither with this repair or repair of the technical error or whatever they call it, is. Therefore, we will also refrain from voting in the SDP Club on this proposal and we are asking the Ministry to consider the composition of all these national councils for a little bit. I say, perhaps in light of the discussion we had last week about that report of the old councils to really achieve those goals that exist in this Croatian Assembly of Consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32590	Thank you. Does the government's representative want it to be final? Here you go. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32591	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to repeat what is the sole reason for this amendment. The only reason is technical error. If I were in a position to suggest a possible change again, then I would certainly suggest to you because of the legal obligation and because of the criteria that are included in the law, instead of someone who works in high school, which is Mr. Buchar, his colleague who also works in high school. So it's also about our obligation to have candidates covering that important half of maybe the future, if not the current binary system of higher education. Mr. Butcher and Mr. Spray are people from that system. Otherwise, differences in views of individual names are allowed. What seems important to us is that we have respected the legal provisions regarding the structure, the full composition of the Council. Last time we suggested it, we explained it in detail, explained it. I think, in that sense, the proposal is fully in line with the law. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32592	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Correction of an incorrect quote, I'm sorry, Mr. Representative Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32593	Mr. Vice President, the Secretary of State said there could be different views on names. I didn't mention a single name, nor did I consider it necessary. This is about a principled, principled error in mode. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32594	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32595	Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of the so far and the appointment of a new member of the National Council for Higher Education. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution decision. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find that with 81 votes for, 4 abstentions and 26 against the resolved Mr. Mato Buchar is a member of the National Council for Higher Education. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint Mr Ivan Prskal as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that with 74 votes for, 9 abstentions and 25 against being appointed a member of the National Council for Higher Education, Mr. Ivica Sprayo.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32596	We move to the agenda point, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Telecommunications, Proposing the Club of Representatives of the SDP, first reading of P.Z. No. 166. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Telecommunications of the Social Democratic Party Club has only two articles. It is in one essence that the service provider charges only a spent tariff interval. And the second is that this law will come into force 8 days after the publication in the People's Newspaper. What's been going on since our initiative? Namely, the Law on Telecommunications was passed by the Croatian Parliament on 17 July 2003, and its amendments and additions on 30 April 2004. On the basis of the Law and its subsequent amendments and additions are not adequate, they did not adequately protect users of services, therefore, consumers in fixed telephony in the Republic of Croatia, i.e., did not allow the provider, made it impossible for the service provider to charge the consumer for the undelivered service. According to the applicable Law, the principle of a pricing system for the determination of the price of telecommunications services provided by only one service provider and internal and international telecommunications transport may be prescribed by a rule adopted by a minister. At the time of the submission of this legislative proposal in the procedure, this Regulation was such that the tariff interval was one minute and that the full interval was charged as expended at the time of its application whether or not it was used until the end. This specifically means that consumers, consumers, so if their phone conversation lasted one minute and one second, paid for 2 minutes of conversation. The problem was possible in two ways: First, according to the law, the competent minister changes the rule and the tariff interval shortens from one minute to one second. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law and lays down the principle of a price system by which the service provider can charge only the spent tariff interval for the duration of the tariff interval to the service providers. On the first chance the minister could change the rulebook, we waited six months. The new Regulation was adopted on 17 December last year and entered into force on 1 January of this year, and T-HT is required beyond that deadline within 60 days from the entry into force of the new Regulation to request consent for a new tariff system. What does the new rulebook say? It divides operators into two groups, ordinary and those with a significant market power, they are usually the new ones that will only appear on the market, and the operator with a significant market power is only one and that T-HT. A new or ordinary operator says the Minister's Regulation will be able to use the system of collection as it is today or what T-HT is using today. It will be possible as a frequency interval to determine one minute, and according to this rule, all those consumers who eventually decided on a new operator will have to pay him what they did not spend, which will not solve the problem clearly. T-HT, however, is as a major market power operator, will be able to retain the current frequency and interval charging model of one minute, or will have to offer users, i.e. consumers, along with that model an additional frequency interval of one second. What will be the price of impulses in this new model we do not yet know but we assume that users will not benefit absolutely from this new model because the prices in it will probably be more so that T-HT does not reduce its profits, so the profits will not profit. Under this Regulation, consumers do not have protection in the ministry, or in the government, or in the country, where this Regulation would even aim to protect consumers, the minister has not set a time limit for the application of the Regulation and the new tariff system. Another way to address the problem offered by the SDP in this bill is to fully protect consumers of services regardless of which operator is decided in the future because none of them will be able to charge for anything that consumers did not actually spend. No matter how long the frequency interval will take. Such a solution also has an additional advantage, as the one among operators, service providers opens up better competition, fairer competition and a better fight for consumers. The next argument in favour of the adoption of this Act is the fact that the Consumer Protection Society has also initiated a civil suit for compensation to users or consumers of TK services in a fixed network, and the SDP Youth Forum has collected 30 thousand citizens' signatures to support these claims for this support. My colleagues and colleagues, this really isn't party law, we can't share here on a party basis because this bill has nothing to do with left or right party political orientation. This is a consumer protection law that is only how it should be understood, and by how we determine ourselves, we will also determine ourselves against consumers. I believe that we will all recognize the need to protect consumers, and this week we have spoken twice about it, so I am convinced that this legislative proposal will be supported by all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32598	Thank you very much. Committee rapporteurs, legislation, information, information and media, maritime, transport and communications. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, a respected representative of the Party, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32599	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I note that the IDS Club has the same position as this Proposal for a Law amending the Telecommunications Act, with the final proposal for a law that is before us so that the IDS Club will support this Act. Why I note this, for the reason that on behalf of the IDS Club, I have also argued in this House of Higher Education by discussing the proposal for a decision to give power to the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. In my debate, I would also like to look back on what is most important for the users of telecommunications services, which is of course with the quality of services prices and account services. The competent ministry shall, through administrative supervision of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency in carrying out the regulatory tasks set out in the Law, in particular, meet the principles and objectives of regulation and shall specify only some. First, it must take care of the interests of telecommunications users, underlining a high level of protection of telecommunications users, fostering the availability of transparent price and conditions of use of public telecommunications services. Ensure and encourage effective and sustainable competition in the telecommunications market with equal opportunities for all market participants. It must encourage market access to new service providers, as well as the introduction of new innovative telecommunications services and technologies. Furthermore, it must ensure and promote the other principles of the users of TK services, but the competent ministry is obliged to prevent abuses of a dominant position on the telecommunications market through the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. What I want to draw particular attention to is that finally, through the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, the Ministry will provide the users of another mobile operator and another fixed operator as soon as possible. With the intention of naturally increasing competition on the Croatian market, the price of impulses or the amount of service users' accounts will eventually be reduced. As we know in 2004 in Croatia, our citizens greatly increased the use of telecommunications services. The Croatian Telecommunications Agency is also required under the Law to provide regulatory services to protect the users of telecommunications services and to co-operate with the authorities responsible for protecting competition and the bodies responsible for consumer protection, which we have already spoken a lot this week. In accordance with the specific laws governing the protection of competition and consumer protection and firstly abolish the TK subscription. Furthermore, neither the basic law nor its amendments nor its additions have significantly protected users of fixed telephony services, and the worst of all is that they have not protected users of services from paying the unused part of the tariff interval. In other words, they did not prevent service providers from charging the user with an unsupervised service. As the consumer company launched a civil suit for the compensation of telecommunications users in a fixed network, and before that in July 2003 they submitted a request for the abolition of the fixed telephone accounting model by rounding up the full start of the minute, that is what this Assembly must discuss and, of course, correct the damage to users of services that has undoubtedly been done. To clarify, before the adoption of the Regulation, the tariff interval in fixed telephony was one minute, and if the user spoke one minute and one second he paid 2 minutes. So for one second, he paid a full-minute price. Of course, the IDS Club has strongly opposed such an account and we accept and only propose a solution that will only charge for a spent tariff interval. Finally, the IDS Club will support this proposal of the Telecommunications Act, which was set before us by the SDP Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32600	Thank you very much. The club of representatives of HSN PGS, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32601	Thank you, Mr. President. The HNS and PGS club will in any case support this bill. And as a former HT employee, I don't see any reason why none of us would support this proposal, except maybe paranoia. If we remember that joke, and you probably all heard it, "When does the guest come to the bar and ask the waiter, since you're having a drink?" The waiter says nothing, he says, then pour me a glass." It all seems to me that those who think in this case in that way, we are not selling 2 dcl or liters of milk, and we have heard such comments from HT, this is not at all about whether it's a drop or a liter, but it's about us living in the age of information, living forever when we can measure the interval in a million seconds, and we're discussing whether we're going to charge in minutes or seconds. And a second is too long, because that's when people get robbed. And then it's taken more than it's spent. Whatever interval we take, we always charge more than it's spent. Because by starting the next interval, we're already charging for the next interval, because we've taken the initial impulse with automation. But it's not just that we charge for nothing, if we just look at everything that we've allowed THT to charge, and it's not done, it's like moving the phone where they take us as much as they take us and turning on a new phone and so on, and since it's not the subject of this, I'd just like to support this proposal anyway and that the interval from a minute gets off for a second. And I think that even when we do, and if we adopt it, we're damaging consumers anyway. And that is why we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32602	Thank you very much. The SDP club, Honorable Representative Miroslav Korenika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32603	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the Club of Representatives of the SDP and the proposer of this law, I think it is to be expected that we will support the adoption of this Law. We were fortunate and relieved to have talked here yesterday in this high house about a national consumer protection programme. We were all full of mouths that consumers in the Republic of Croatia should be protected and I will begin by quoting what the Consumer Protection Act says in Article 22. "Sale to consumers of public services where the nature of public service allows, must be calculated according to consumption, the accounting period by applying the tariff system on the basis of specific rules". Also in yesterday, when we discussed the National Programme, it is a document of the Government itself, in the proposal it made, which states that the Telecommunications Act has achieved the new important objectives of the regulatory framework among other things to protect users of services, i.e. the basic tasks from providing public services, it is to fully comply with the rules of the relevant areas with the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act in the section relating to the way of use, quality, method of accounting and the payment of services. We don't need to talk about how much in the previous period Hrvatski Telekom, so now THT has earned and unfortunately we don't have an analysis to get precise data, how much on the starting accounting unit, which means for every minute started, how much extra profit has been paid, or has been achieved? We are also aware that the state, given the VAT tax, has also made good money on such services. However, regardless, we at the SDP Club are opinions and we support that the intensity of this Law that we propose means that it is clear, and it is seen from the assessment of the situation we have given regarding this Law, to protect all users of services in fixed telephony, i.e. to make it impossible for operators, i.e. service providers to continue to benefit themselves, i.e. to charge the consumer an unsupervised service. I'd like to remind you, we all studied together at the elementary school of physics international unit system. The unit during the service is one second. We can discuss it, but it seems to me that for sure one second is a sufficient accounting period for which a service can be charged. Maybe they'll keep the state short for some taxes. It's absolutely certain that operators, and we're going to have more and more of them, because here we're going to liberalise the market that maybe they're going to have the opportunity to make extra profits. However, if we all swear, and listen to yesterday's debates, we have sworn to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we of the SDP Club feel that we should support the adoption of the Law, because such important matter cannot be handled by the rules passed by the minister, but must be passed by a law that will be far stronger in that case, as rules can usually be manipulated, often not followed. That is why and at the end of this debate the SDP Club will support the law. We appeal to all representatives of the Croatian Parliament to support it, precisely in the spirit of what we once again said yesterday, swear that we should protect Croatian consumers by raising hands or by pressing these "yes" buttons for this law, we will show that we are indeed holding to what we said yesterday, that this is not just an empty word and an empty letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32604	Thank you very much. Does the proposaler's representative want a final review? There's no need. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Telecommunications, first reading, Proposal for a Law 166. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending the Telecommunications Act proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. Score. I find the proposed conclusion has been made with 81 votes for, 3 abstentions and 27 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32607	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law to encourage domestic production for tourism placement is one of the legal proposals which, unfortunately, is to be discussed in this late afternoon period without the possibility of public participation. I am undermining the formal debate in this House although, according to us in the HSS Club and also to experts and institutions who supported this Bill's proposal, this or this way of thinking and evaluating that the role of tourism as a major market in the Republic of Croatia and that the tasks of this great tourist market are agreed by almost all those who know something about tourism and this market, who want to think responsibly about it, so among other things, the written support of this Bill was given by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Hotelers, the Association of Restaurants and various associations that were consulted in the preparation of the proposals of this Act. What is it that this bill wants through such a, such a level as the bill is set up and what is it that it wants to encourage? Namely, the lack of an existing model has not benefited enough from the benefits of our tourism market. We are full of praise in recent months and in recent years about how the Croatian economy is given a great opportunity to join European integration, to join the European Union, to join the associations that exist in the world and Europe can offer its products and services to the world market. In doing so, be clearly competitive, be good, be excellent and impose on the world market and sell their products, and that what we have in our market, which is a tourist market that has developed today and no longer represents either a segmental part of the Croatian market or a seasonal part seen annually. Today tourism is simply no longer an activity, not an economic branch but a market in the full sense of words. If in that market that is available to us, in some ways we are sovereign in it, in some ways we have the right and certain rules that we cannot set or are not allowed to set on the world market. If, in accordance with the practice of the countries to which this Bill is otherwise addressed, and I will say that a similar law in the 1980s has been passed by Spain, Greece, a certain form of encouragement but far stronger, the Government of the Republic of Croatia would say that this is unacceptable, far more unacceptable in terms of the consumption of rights on its own market, which Turkey brought in 1993, and only for one example which I will mention at the very beginning: a foreigner in Turkey can build a hotel, can get a country in a concession to build that hotel, but 90%, 90%, 90% of all that is installed in that hotel, including equipment, must have origin from Turkey. Spain, in the '80s, a country that started with so-called mass tourism. Tourism, which in some ways symbolized huge construction, which was for a wider population of European and world destinations, has introduced measures to participate, the participation of a domestic product consumed in a particular facility forms the basis for a subsidy or for support by the state in that same proportion of the company. Therefore, the amount of domestic products or services installed, whether agricultural or food, whether through equipment, whether through construction, the amount of domestic product you have installed in the facility you are building or the service that you provide correspondence with the support that the state gives you. Why? Because it is in the interest of the state above all to support its own economic systems, but it is in her interest to create brands not only in the narrow sense of tourism but also in agriculture. Today is Spain's land that has so-called land. 7 brands in agriculture. What does branding mean? It's their kind of mandalin to call them that. They're their oranges. These are their agricultural products. It's their brand in the wine. These are all those products that have not only conquered Spain through this form of encouragement but the world. Today they don't need to advertise like that anymore. They today represent a serious force which, compared to Croatia, only through the basic income of tourism, achieves 20 times more. Therefore, the proposal for this law comes from these facts. These facts are very clearly found in the assessment of the situation, but also these facts are the result of a series of research that definitely showed even through the so-called. The study was conducted in 2002, commissioned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2002 by the Croatian Institute for Tourism called "Tourism and Development of Croatia". With an action plan. Of course from realization, from idea to realization always takes time. And it is lawful to say that for something it is not time, it is allowed and to say that it should go in stages, but it is not allowed at all, and we must never allow this topic to be classified in this way, or in this way trying to challenge the same legitimacy as the regularity of this bill as it tries through the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is absolutely not on the trail of everything the government itself has put in place as starting positions and strategic goals itself. And at the heart of these objectives of the strategy is tourism. When we talk about this market in tourism, then they are right through analysis, through scientific research it has definitely been proven that there are two groups of goods and services spent on the tourist market, which are spent on the tourist market, which in nature things are deficited or thus subdued under deficits. Why? Because the financial sector has created imported goods in a far better position than is the position enjoyed by the domestic producer and domestic goods. The financial sector had reason to create a better position for import goods and the import sector has reason, but we have no reason to see such views and such anomalies resulting in an increase in deficits, an increase in the general public debt of the Republic of Croatia and which in nature reduce the capacity of the domestic economy. And this first group of goods are products of broad consumption that are sold directly or indirectly to tourists either through reproductions of the material of retail trade and the like. And the second part of these same resources is the reproduction material inventory and equipment that is being built on both the final product and the service. That's also the part that's very interesting. In particular, our institution is the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is a branch of the state administration of public finances, as well as the regulator of the overall needs of social ones and which has rightly been actively involved in the financing, co-financing and monitoring of all tourist needs. That's good. But it's not good. It is not good for hotelers to receive money to rebuild the hotel and afterwards without any shame, without any shame, complete money, which is partly derived from the state budget because the subsidized interest benefits to buy goods from the outside. And it is not true that these goods are not in Croatia. That's just not true. But it's simply unacceptable for the state budget to subsidise interest from a foreign producer of goods. I think this is not about European legislation, the practice that exists, it's about domestic irresponsibility. It is precisely doing this domestic irresponsibility but also because of the fact that tourism is increasingly taking its place each year, and already in 2003 the balance was $6.7 billion, 6.7 billion. But if we estimate that the part about agriculture or food products is about 20%, then we can say that we are now discussing the gentlemen about two billion and two and a half billion dollars that are being spent within these two groups of goods that I have mentioned. That amount if we were able to engage through the domestic economy within Croatian agriculture then we would not have a problem in agriculture. But it is not the most important thing to achieve but rather to achieve a relative willingness to participate in active participation in the global European market on the European Union framework, Croatia is equally prepared to compete outside Croatia. At this point, unfortunately, it is not competitively prepared to fight the challenges it faces in the European Union. She can't become herself ready. Croatian agriculture neither Croatian production nor Croatian economy. Without incentives and without measures that have not been put forward again, it is entirely wrong that this is opposed to any directive of the European Union. Because Croatia cannot be opposed and others allowed. Subsidisation of domestic consumption within tourism is completely legal. Last year, the Italian government of every family in Italy who decided to fly to Italy gave 15-20% of the benefit if she planned her summer vacation in an apartment in Italy. Is that why someone called Italy? Did it do something that is not acceptable in the European market? Well, of course not. And why do we have a problem with this initiative and this kind of initiative? Why she always bothered us. So because we'd rather be ready for that little commission that comes from imported goods that we don't know where it came from, we don't know what the quality is, we don't know whose it is, but we know that we have a small commission, which the importers and the import lobby extremely well integrated into all segments of the government and in every government. That's why it happens that this is exactly the kind of process that we're having. And that regardless of the overall growth of tourism traffic in the Republic of Croatia, the participation of domestic products is constantly decreasing. And exports and imports of goods for broad consumption grow to $1 and a half billion. These are the facts about this we do not need to dispute or speak about. The question is, how are we going to change that? It doesn't have to be the model we suggested to be the best, it shouldn't be satisfactory, but it deserves gentlemen to get into another reading. And that, within the framework of the second reading, the Government will do exactly what it suggested that through its own projects such as that Croatian product for Croatian tourism or actions of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, let us buy Croatia that we will finally take action and produce Croatian. Therefore, the minimum would require that this be released into a second reading, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, since it agreed itself that in the measure of things, it welcomes the project or the intensity of this project to strengthen the domestic economy through tourism. Until the second reading, she's taking over this project. There's nothing in the HSS Club that we don't have for the government in the second reading to present its own position in this law to take this project to change it wherever it's not good. To change him where he's okay. We don't mind. But I must tell you that two main measures are the instruments of this policy policy instruments of this law are the unambiguous loan received by a hoteler or service provider but it is not obtained unconditionally but we are provided that with the host the manufacturer has reached the contract and will buy its goods. Now let's just stick to it. Three four months ago, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development did not know whether or not it accepted both instruments that stand in this bill, but you know what it did not accept, gave interest-free loans to tourist companies that they could get from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development but did not prescribe that it must agree with the domestic producer. In other words, it can be obtained from abroad, it can buy foreign goods for the purposes of its hotel's tourism market. And why is that? And why don't we, with the funds that taxpayers' funds, try to help domestic production if in a competitive way this law does not foresee any benefits in terms of price quality and conditions. He only predicts that support is being helped in accordance with the aid law to help what has been happening so far. Where we don't have that product and there's a lot of products that we don't have at this point, there's another measure, another measure is the long-term lending of targeted production that's missing from the tourism market. Targeted production planning missing from the tourist market. It is this measure that will lead to us having a covered tourist market with all the products and all the things that tourists need over the next five years. Let the foreigners include themselves in these measures. No one has banned but will then employ in Croatia labour, but the tax will pay in Croatia, but then employment will increase, and then the pensioners will be easier because the cycle will exist normally. It's not a normal cycle to invest in tourism, and we invest in tourism a lot of gentlemen, a lot. Croatia invests in tourism a terrible means for tourists to come to Croatia, and then when we bring in those tourists which is the hardest job then we give that market to someone else who has done nothing but sell us their third-rate goods that we say is cheap and that's enough reason. And you know the consequence of a secondary that will happen after a few years? The tourists will say, "We come for your sake, for your domestic food, so we come for your wine, and for your sake, we come to you to feel what we do not have." It's the beauty of a nation, a culture of nutrition, a culture of drinking drinks, something that's specific to us. If we borrow all this from someone else together just to get that commission, then we'll get where we don't want to go. So this is a fundamental and profound question about how we want to organise our own tourism as our most important branch and how we want to organise the market for tourism products as something that is given to God and what needs to be used in fact and in the nature of things. That is why I considered it absolutely necessary once again for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider everything to release this material, this bill into another reading. That he fully agrees with both the principles and conditions that exist in the European Union and with our needs and our interests, and with the opportunities of the state, and to go into the project, to try to make the first step, that the next season when we finish what Minister Churchvenac was saying when he was Minister of Finance, so he says, for God's sakes, I can't see in your tourism what's left of the state. Well, I say, my Mato, so you won't even see it when we don't behave properly. So we need to look at some things objectively and realistically so that we can set up the therapy that is necessary to get to the beginning, because we're going the wrong way. And that's why we don't have the effects of our tourism that God has given us more than our brains. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32608	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No committee does, the need to file a report. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative PGS's club, respected representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32609	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In view of this proposal and the opinion of the Government, it would be useful to analyse and discuss in more detail the problems that exist in the tourism and agriculture sectors and how these problems could be addressed by linking these two branches. The purpose of this proposal, proposed by an emergency procedure, is to legally regulate its adoption by encouraging domestic production which would then be placed in and for the purposes of Croatian tourism. Goods would be produced to create Croatian tourist products, enrich the tourist offer, prepare catering facilities and increase the total tourist consumption. It is proposed that the incentives consist of short-term interest-free loans for 1 year and the lending of contracted production intended for tourist consumption at 2% per 10 years. All of these incentives would be provided by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the participation of the competent ministry. The government was shown to support the idea of encouraging domestic production for tourism placement but to oppose the proposed solution because the government said, contrary to certain laws and measures internationally accepted by the Republic of Croatia. The government is also calling for its own programme of activities to prepare the tourist season and stresses that loaning programmes are already being financed from different sources. We are aware that currently the multiannual situation in the Republic of Croatia is the permanent domination of imports over exports. It can also be considered a fact that the Republic of Croatia is a large and yet under-exploited economic potential one of our comparative advantages is certainly our coast, sea and islands that give us the opportunity to achieve large revenues through tourism. We are witnessing that the current state of tourist season lasts only a few months. There is often a lack of adequate tourist offers, and a large quantity of goods offered has been imported. In view of all the above, the obligation to connect domestic production with tourism is imposed as one of the possible solutions to the existing situation in order to make tourism a multiplier of Croatian development. When we talk about a country's tourist offer, one of the basic elements that makes the country recognizable and thus interesting in international levels is its kitchen. One country's kitchen provides an important and unrelenting insight into the country's culture. Tourists who would certainly summer, who come to our coast every summer, should be able to get to know the food specific to our climates, thus getting to know one aspect of the culture of the people here. In other words, let them try in the tourist offer, for example. Dalmatian prosciutto, heartle, Slavonic ham, coolen, Zagorje scrutkles, homemade olive oil, homemade cheese and which is recognised at world level, and many other domestic products and not imported versions. But such products should not have the mark of Croatian products for Croatian tourism, but should be products produced in Croatia and placed among other things in a tourist offer. In other words, we should look for not only some new products that would then be classified as a tourist offer but also make these already existing products more accessible. It is not "hot water" to be invented, but to place products that are already manufactured or produced in Croatia through tourism. It is also not necessary to ignore the positive effects of connecting other economic branches such as shipbuilding or tourism industry. Such integration of tourism development would also have a positive impact on the development and improvement of these other important economic branches. The government believes the idea of connecting domestic production and tourism can be achieved by implementing different programmes without direct legal regulation. However, it states that legal regulation would be contrary to existing laws, as the proposed way of supporting tourism is not allowed under the State Aid Act. However, if we refer to that law, more specifically Article 4(3), we can note that that law also provides for certain cases in which it exceptionally allows for appropriate state support. I quote the State aid Act, Article 4 which states in the first sentence: "Unless otherwise specified by this law, they are considered not to comply with this law by those state aids which, regardless of their form, violate or threaten to distort competition. By conferring a market advantage on the beneficiary of state aid, in particular to the extent that it can also affect the fulfilment of the international commitments of the Republic of Croatia." However, paragraph 3 of that Article further states that it is exceptional that the following State aid may be assessed in accordance with this law. State aid in favour of economic development in the area of abnormally low standard of living or high unemployment is under a), b) State support intended to promote culture and protect heritage, c) State support intended to implement significant projects or eliminate difficulties in the economy and finally d) State support intended to encourage certain economic activities or certain economic areas. (e) State support to legal and natural persons who, under specific rules, are entrusted with the provision of services of general economic interest or have the exclusive right to carry out certain activities and without which state aid would be impossible to carry out and carry out their tasks entrusted to them and under f) State aid which is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with special regulations which are not contrary to the purpose of this law. According to the above, the government's view is based because the need to connect tourism and domestic production and to promote both branches could be classified in points (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) and thus legally regulated. It is also unwarranted to justify the inability to connect these two important branches of the Croatian economy by calling for the protection of competition, as among other things the State Support Act and the circumstances took into account by prescribing those exceptions. It is precisely because of this, and in order to take into account the interests of the Republic of Croatia primarily, I think that it is necessary for the Government to present a set of proposals for its imaginary activities and that representatives come to the best solutions through joint discussions. We at the HNS PGS think this bill should go to another reading and that it has been sent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32610	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Dragica Zgrebec. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32611	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Given that this bill has been removed from the emergency procedure and we are discussing it in the first reading, I will also present some of our suggestions to the Proposer on certain articles of this proposed law. In the beginning, I'm going to say that the SDP will support the adoption of a law like this. We estimate that it is also necessary to bring multiple benefits to tourism activities, as well as to all accompanying activities on the tourist market as well as to food and other industries. In fact, we should lead such a policy that tourism and accompanying activities in the tourism market increase the share of domestic products. In this way, the net effect in tourism would actually increase. We want to achieve something similar in shipbuilding, and I don't think there's any reason to subsidize, say, the construction of a boat, why don't we subsidize or encourage a domestic product on the tourist market in a certain way. It should be taken into account that the arrival of large trade chains in Croatia has significantly increased registered imports of goods. This was not recorded in part or in part before because it was individual imports of so-called ‘in part’ or ‘in part’. The shopping where our citizens went across the border. However, it should be taken into account that this year the transitional period for large or most of the agricultural and food products on which customs duties are to be abolished or at a very low level, which will further encourage imports in view of the high imputences in the production of agricultural products and based on such prices and on the food industry. Unfortunately, we still have an unorganised agricultural market. We do not have organised producers who could deal in a competitive way with import-oriented trading houses, and often imports are unfair. And now for a little while, let me look back at the law itself. I think that it is well seen in Article 1 which should cover by encouraging which products, therefore all of what is stated in Article 1 but would accordingly suggest that, in the first part of Article 5 or the first point, the first indent of the incentives relating to short-term unambiguous loans is to separate the lending of the contracted production intended for tourism consumption and in the first part of production for which it may be possible to take a shorter period, but also to introduce an incentive for investments that would be necessary for such production where a longer period is needed. That's where I primarily think about the investments in agriculture. They are partly implemented through the Ministry of Agriculture, but here they would strengthen it in such a way as to encourage the rise of long-term plantations or in some processing facilities, the introduction of new technologies. Of course, this would not only apply to agriculture, production that will go towards tourism, but to total production. And it seems to us that the law itself lacks sanctions. The sanctions should be prescribed for those who will use incentives and will not use them for purpose, and that should be added here so that we would not have another law without sanctions as we had the opportunity to see when we discussed the revision of conversion and privatisation. I would briefly refer to the government's opinion. It is not unusual for the government to accept a bill coming from the opposition circle, but we see certain contradictions in the very reason. The Government calls here on the need, namely our obligation to comply with the legislation of the European Union, specifically on state support, to also call for a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, but we know that we do not fully coordinate certain areas or individual laws, that we are going into gradual harmonisation. We are not a member of the European Union, we are just trying to be, we are just starting negotiations and we are sure that we can regulate some things in another way during this transitional period. When I said that this applies to certain contradictions, and on the first page, the government says there are certain programs itself, projects that are not contrary to what this law proposes. So I think that we think that the government's opinion is more a result of this proposal coming from an opposition club than it is just an explanation. Finally, we will vote that this law goes into another reading and we would ask that there are other clubs to support it and that in the second reading we should pass one law that would have multiple benefits not only for tourism but for overall economic activity in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32612	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, dear colleague Walter Poropat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. By considering this Proposal for a Law on the Incentives of Domestic Production for Tourism, we at the IDS Club hold that domestic production is encouraged, and in particular the promotion of domestic production for tourism placement is one of the priorities to be focused on now, in order to have sufficient capacity in agriculture for the internal market, but also for a specific agricultural product in the European Union after entering the European Union. In fact, we know that after entering the European Union no one will be able to increase the production capacity of agricultural products, i.e. simply and figuratively speaking, one vineyarder will not be able to plant any more vines or olive groves, etc. These findings justify, in every respect, the broad and rapid education of the population and the great incentives to producers, especially in agriculture which I consider to be the most difficult part of the work in the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. In addition, we could see for ourselves the examples of the recent enlargement of the Union to new members. As for the promotion of domestic production for tourism placement, we at the IDS Club believe that it absolutely needs to be encouraged and that such encouragement is of strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia. First of all, there are agricultural and food products that total the tourist value of social gross products at 20%. Of course, it is very important to extend the tourist season with better quality and new offers that will attract tourists and thus get the farthest distance in Istria County. In the rural part of Istria, huge efforts are being made to open new family farms registered for agrotourism, as well as manufacturing activities primarily in the production of organic products and protected typical indigenous products sold in tourist resorts at agrotourism and wine road points, etc., etc. Incentives for the production of protected typical indigenous products must be intended. I will give an example of a protected Istrian parchment known in the European Union with its trademark. Or Slavonic cuisine, however, in order to produce the best quality of Istrian parchute or Slavonic cuisine, we need to grow cca 200kg of heavy pig, which means that we need a time period of 2 years for the final product. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship at the latest, would have to submit a programme of promotion of production for tourism for the next tourist year with a projection for the next 3 years. We are familiar with the fact that the import component does not decrease in the content of the tourist offer but is increasing from year to year. Which is totally inadmissible and why it should end. Such a situation is the result of the lack of a real economic policy strategy. In this case, there is a lack of long-term stimulation of domestic products, i.e. a producer of agricultural and food products for tourism placement. Here I must highlight the recent presentation of the agricultural and food products of Vukovar-Srijem County in Istria. In Poreč organised by Istria County, which was one of the examples of how some counties are presented to the tourist market of Istria. The hope arises that more domestic production will be placed in Istria next season, which is of course for every praise. The purpose of promoting domestic production for tourism is to make use of available agricultural resources, agricultural land, stable and processing facilities, valorisation of organic and typical indigenous products, domestic product placement through tourism and agrotourism as an export product, increased income and economic stability and family farms. Keeping young people in rural areas and, of course, reducing imports. And today, I will repeat, of course, stopping the import lobby and ultimately improving the balance of payments as a whole. We at the IDS Club suggest that this law goes to another reading and we support this approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32614	Thank you very much, dear colleague. It is next, dear colleague Pankretic, on behalf of the HSS Club. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32615	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Unfortunately, the hall is almost empty, very few of us are here. I'd say this bill doesn't deserve that. In any case, I think this law and its purpose are extremely important. The idea of a merger, I'm going to symbolically call it green and blue fields for a long time. There have been different attempts so far to achieve this, but here for the first time today is a concrete law. A law that I believe can improve the significant overall state of affairs in this part. I think my colleague Markov explained the law in detail, all his advantages. I will try from what he brings to the part of agriculture itself and what would be important in this influence of this Law. Interestingly, I would like to point out at the outset that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the program "Croatian Product for Croatian Tourism" at its 43rd session on 6.10.2004. She gave certain guidelines, certain tasks, I'd say and order a certain study. She made it very clear in this section which is why the placement of domestic agricultural products through tourism would be significant. I'll repeat, here in that section to achieve higher prices than it is in some classic export. To avoid customs and other export barriers in this way. They can place goods that are very difficult or cannot be exported at all. The State collects taxes, excise duties and others from which exports are released and a large part of the sale is charged immediately or faster than when it comes to classical exports. It may also be important here to mention another document from the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the period from 2003 to 2007 in the area where tourism is clearly spoken about, and I will read that sentence to you, which is: "Incentive economic policy measures will ensure a greater and more stable placement of agricultural products on the Croatian tourist market". I'm telling you this because unfortunately, as many times as so far, everything remains on paper, remains on wishes, and there are no concrete moves. There are no concrete moves. We are all in some way declarative "yes", we all say, as many domestic agricultural products should be placed through tourism, all of us here in some way declarative about it, we have a consensus, but when concrete things are achieved, here and the Government mentions it in its documents, the concreteizations almost to some or if, as in this case, if the bill proposed by the Croatian Peasant Party, then the Government in its opinion says, that this is nice, that the goal is good, but that the Law itself cannot be accepted. We were, of course, opposed to the fact that this law is not going into emergency procedure, I will explain the emergency procedure to you with certain things, but globally why it is extremely important when we talk about agriculture this Law but also many other measures, we have heard these days, for example yesterday from the prime minister who spoke very inspiredly in that part that we have good parts related to exports and related to imports, but unfortunately such overall trends do not have such overall trends in agriculture and the external trade of agricultural and food products, unfortunately, is extremely bad. I'll just tell you here according to the data from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which she processed the other day in 2004, the data is really alarming. Imports of agricultural and food products a billion HRK 454 million. Or a 15.8% increase compared to 2003. What is even more worrying is exports that dropped by 4% in 2004 compared to 2003. I remember stories a year, a year and a half ago when unfortunately because of the increase in imports and personally suffered certain criticisms I would say with justification it was actually an increase significantly from 2002 to 2003, but such a bad trend that continued in 2004 really must alarm us all together. I was talking about him. I'm going to remind you of that sometime last year in the spring, when we talked about Protocol 7 that similar phenomena would appear to us, some of them said it wasn't true, that it wouldn't happen that even imports would be reduced but unfortunately concrete data are here. What we want now, we want this law to affect this very big problem too, we don't want some things to stay on just some declarative story, but we want to do a very specific thing. It's not meant to be, because I think we need to remember some experiences here, even though some will say they're experiences a long time ago, and maybe they're not appropriate right now because this isn't about right now is a whole other thing, we have a market economy, and so on, and before 90, it was something different. But I will honestly tell you that at the time we had very good examples, that certain companies had directly concluded contracts, for example, agricultural companies talking about them different PIKs, tourist companies had very clear arrangements in that part, defined prices, secured market, and that worked extremely well, things that happened stopped working in the second system, and unfortunately we came up with something that is not good now. I don't think we should be oversceptive to something that was good in the past, we should kind of model it for these modern times, that's what the examples tell us, that we have, that we have heard from many countries that did it, many countries that are seriously engaged in tourism, which are serious tourist countries, I believe that we have similar laws like this. Everyone is ensuring, ensuring that their agricultural products can be placed most directly in tourism, ensuring what I think is most important for agriculture, where most and agricultural companies, most of our farmers, face the biggest problem, is the market problem. We have the biggest problem, the problem of the safe market, the problem of securing that market, and here we are already, I would have told the same story a thousand times when it comes to agriculture. We'll be sure here whether it's 10% or 20% of total domestic production in agriculture, the estimates are different, we've heard from 10% to 20%, but in any case an extremely large part of the domestic agricultural production direction in the right direction, many have already pointed out here that some lobbys don't like it, of course some want frozen meat to be imported, they want to import bad products, and not that here is one of the most direct way for our domestic agricultural products to reach tourism, I'd say, businesses that need it. I would not be talking here about the countless examples we had when unfortunately certain budget money was being given to prepare the tourist season, then it was discovered that before the tourist season in that preparation, goods from abroad were being purchased, it was even about companies that were mostly state-owned, not yet privatised. The reason was very simple, they just gave the answer that they have to operate profitablely, profits here for them as the company of the most significant and did not care where they were getting these goods, I think here in this House we certainly can't think that way but we have to think in one general interest. At this point, the general interest is certain to help domestic agricultural production, domestic enterprises and in any case tourism. I think it is necessary to point out once again here that in the future tourism, and in the future tourists will not only be satisfied if we provide only the service that God has given us, which is a beautiful sea, a clean environment, they will require something more than that, they will require original food, they will require original drinks, and I think we really have something to give them what we have to offer. I think when someone comes to Croatia, when a certain tourist comes that we should really make sure that we give him this maximum service, but not just in that part, but in the service with our indigenous products. So I believe that you who are here today will support that this bill of ours goes to another reading, that as the promoter has already mentioned here, that if there are certain additions, if there are certain proposals, trust me that we will accept them in all our heart, but we think that this is a very specific shift in that part of the overall thinking and on agriculture and also on tourism. Here, once again, I don't need to stress that we at the HSS Club are all in favour of this law, but I think it's also important to ask all other clubs to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32616	Thank you, dear colleague. It's time for an individual debate, dear colleague Martic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, how few of us are left here unfortunately. I simply feel the need to say a few words in this proposal of the Law that is before us and to support it, because it has been a practice so far that the effects of tourist activity are most often expressed by the number of overnight stays and by the number of foreign and domestic guests who stayed in Croatia during the tourist season. There are indicators that can be used conveniently in terms of EPP to indicate the success of the tourist season, and then most often it is said, the tourist season has been extremely successful, so many nights have been achieved, the number of foreign guests is higher by so many percentages compared to last year, the number of domestics is also higher by so many percentages, etc. And after that, everyone's happy. A resolute minister is satisfied, the Croatian Tourist Board is satisfied, and the Croatian public should be satisfied, as these data promise that the state budget has also benefited significantly from the impact of the tourist season, and this still promises citizens a better future. But is that really how it is? Is the financial impact of the tourist season really the way it comes from the numerical indicators of the number of nights? If they did a detailed analysis of how much the share of foreign products is in the total tourist product, and how much is the share of the domestic product, the final financial result will certainly not be as they could conclude on the basis of the figures mentioned. The overall financial impact of our tourism is lower, as the import component in the tourist service content is not reduced, but is increasing. The high share of foreign products significantly reduces the economic effects of tourism, as there is no use by the authorities of production potentials. Tourism must be treated as an export economic branch, which has great opportunities to unite and encourage other economic branches in the Republic of Croatia. The large tourist market allows the placement of different goods and services, and this potential is not nearly used as it should be. The number of entities participating in or contributing to enriching and expanding the tourist offer is small in relation to the needs and opportunities of different goods and services in the tourist market. As a consequence, we have a situation in our hotels and restaurants to offer our guests imported food products, that guests sleep on import beds, on import sheets, etc. And not to list everything else. Such a situation is due to a number of factors. First, unadjusted structures of domestic production, the needs of designing a very complex and demanding tourist service. And secondly, this is due to the lack of different economic policy measures, which would encourage and stimulate domestic entrepreneurs, especially producers to adapt their production programmes to the needs of the tourism market. Croatia has a number of advantages that it has not been able to take advantage of so far. We have clean air, drinking water, exceptional quality and quality, clean sea, it is not a waste to note that the criteria for the microbiological cleanness of the sea in Croatia are 10 times stricter, but in other countries around the Mediterranean, because Croatia can afford it. We have all the conditions and opportunities to produce healthy food. It is all part of the value and advantages that Croatia has, which has not used enough and placed on the market. These are also the basic reasons why this Law is proposed, which aims to activate huge economic potential and put into service tourism and tourism markets. In this way, imports would be reduced, and the development and design of a new Croatian product based on domestic production would be driven primarily by healthy and exportable Croatian agricultural products. This Law proposes incentives from the field of credit policy for the benefit of domestic tourism placement products producers and the mechanism for achieving these incentives. The adoption of the proposed Law will contribute to the resuscitation, modernisation and structural adaptation of domestic production, primarily agriculture and fisheries and the processing industry, the needs of the tourism market as set out in Article 1. All the measures proposed by this Act, which is the subject of the debate, will contribute to increasing the overall economic effects tourism, which tourism has and will undoubtedly contribute to a better design of the Croatian Tourist Product and a quality total tourist offer that tourists will certainly know about and that will be a reason to visit our country in a much larger number. I therefore believe that this law should be supported with, of course, those suggestions made by my colleague Zgrebec on behalf of the SDP Club. And once again I have to say, so let me put it this way I won't say any more surprises, because I'm no longer surprised that the government has persistently rejected the draft laws coming from the opposition's ranks, but at least I hope that this law will also encourage the government to refer here one, one, a modified form of such a law with such proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32618	Thank you, dear colleague Martic. It's time for my esteemed colleague, Lalic. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32619	I thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, it is truly a shame that in hours this late we are discussing such an important topic with so few present representatives. Because it's actually about the greatest Croatian potential, what we've actually been offered in the palm of our hand, and so far we haven't found the methods, the way and the mechanisms to take advantage of it. The proposed Law Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party sent the procedure back in September 2004. We have proposed it by emergency procedure, but the will of the parliamentary majority has been removed from the emergency procedure, and here after 5 months we are discussing a proposal aimed at creating a legal framework for the effective integration of domestic production potentials with the biggest consumer in Croatia, which is a tourist market. Unfortunately, due to misunderstanding or political exclusion it is quite all the same that an emergency procedure has been removed and the past 5 months have been lost for so much necessary integration. In her opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia recommended such a decision to this Assembly by explaining that there are no business assumptions for making, and especially not by emergency procedure, because in this case there is no talk of preventing or removing major disturbances in the economy. It is obvious that the government considers imports of food products to be quite normal in 2004 by 20% higher than in 2003. I can't think of it as normal, because at the same time as everything and everything of the most common suspicious quality was imported into Croatia, let's just remember the products with genetically modified organisms and frozen pork that expired. At the same time as imports increased, the producers did not have a market for their production, and when there was no market for the product, production decreased in any case. The objective of state policy is not and cannot be to reduce the physical volume of production, especially before entering the European Union. The Minister of Agriculture speaks of the need to increase production, while at the same time the Government leaves its production measures without a market and thus forces them to reduce production. The philosophy of this Law comes from the natural potentials that Croatia has. This is an unpolluted agricultural land, and yet very fertile, which, with certain investments, can give a large, competitive breed. This breed should be processed and finalised in the domestic food industry and eventually placed on the tourist market. According to the data available in our tourism, food products worth two billion dollars are absorbed annually. Only this amount actually speaks for everything, but unfortunately this large market is reserved for someone else and therefore we did not take advantage of the welfare of the state and its citizens of all the tourism opportunities. The high share of foreign products significantly reduces the economic effects of tourism because the value of imported goods does not benefit from its own production potential. And therefore, of course, there is a successful tourist season, but we cannot even look at or expect the messiah until it pulls back the need to increase production. The increase in production leads to new employment and new employment, and then actually the citizen directly feels the success of state policy. Of course this connecting of two of the biggest Croatian potentials is not easy but it is not easy. The tourist market is very demanding and it has not adapted to domestic production. This adjustment is necessary, but therefore economic policy measures are needed to stimulate and further encourage domestic entrepreneurs in the longer term, especially producers to adapt their production programmes to the needs of the tourism market. The domestic economy must be trained to produce what is needed by the tourist market. However, this product must be competitive with import products at both price and quality. This is why we from the Croatian Peasant Party Club propose this Law, which encourages domestic production by applying it, and especially manufacturers to adapt their production programmes to the needs of the tourism market and thus enable the multiplier effects of that market on the development of domestic production. It is interesting that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the idea of encouraging domestic production but suggests that the law be rejected. That view would be understandable if the government had a proposal for a better solution but it did not. She says that she tasked the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development at her session on 6 October 2004 to open a tender for the selection of contractors for the project "Croatian Product for Croatian Tourism" in collaboration with the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture. As far as we know, there is nothing from the competition or from the project, and the tourism market will continue to be focused on imports in 2005 and thus will continue to significantly reduce the economic effects of tourism. So even what nature has given us, we don't know how to fertilize and put into general good. Furthermore, the government says that this law is not in line with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. This is simply not true because members of the European Union, as we have heard previously, such as Greece and Spain, have a similar model of protection of domestic production. How, one day, citizens in the referendum will accept entry into the European Union if they are convinced by the authorities that the laws with unpopular measures are passed at the request of the European Union. That the laws that are useful for citizens but do not apply because this does not allow the economic situation in Croatia also bring about only at the request of the European Union and ultimately we must not protect domestic production that needs to be created, we also bring it at the request of the European Union. This is what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot understand, and all the efforts of the political elite will be in vain because the citizens in the referendum will say no. Furthermore, the government says there are no clear sources of funding for the implementation of this Act. The law says favourable loans to encourage the production of dedicated tourism are approved by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Such loans would only be granted to tourism companies that contract with domestic producers on long-term business and interest partnerships. For the Government, this is unacceptable, while at the same time the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development as a state bank in its business has accepted in law the model of lending with one single difference, which is that tourist companies have no obligation to supply domestic products. And while this is the case, we will continue to be welcomed at the entrance to tourist facilities by furniture and carpets from imports, we will be welcomed by import sheets, towels, soaps and shampoos. All the way to toilet paper is imported goods. On the table import food that probably expired, and otherwise domestic production will not reach the desired level, and for years we will fight to protect fundamental human rights, which is the right to work. It is precisely in the protection of this right that we at the Club of the Croatian Peasants' Party will support this Law because it gives us the most credible guarantees that this right will come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32620	Thank you very much. And distinguished representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32621	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and, excuse me, Mr. President, I'm sorry, it wasn't on purpose, I apologize. ... No, I saw it, but I'm sorry again. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let me, yes, yes, before I, yes, good. So here's a couple, a couple of observations on the proposal for a law to encourage domestic production for tourism placement. I can simply find it difficult to accept the fact that the government has negatively expressed itself on this bill proposal because of the simple fact that it's in fact advocating itself entirely for another option. And if we translate that into our peasant language then that means it's about the import lobby, which I still can't accept from the aspect of our peasant logic because it would be normal if our government were to support us producers. But the situation is that in this first reading, I believe that our efforts are bearing fruit and that the second reading actually comes to the proposal of the law or the same or similar but in the sense that such production is being encouraged and that it is actually being one of the supporters placed in agriculture. But let me take advantage of a few observations already when it comes to agriculture and the placement of agricultural products to try the thoughts that lead us in the country to survive, to be in the country, to guard that landscape, and to see what kind of peasants experience themselves and what they think should be respected through the placement of goods. If we talk to public debates that the importance of agriculture is that about 1% of the total gross world income is agriculture, that at the same time 3% of the peasants or the total productive population live on the other side of that 3% of the population owns 85% of the natural resources. You have to imagine how important it is that one small population that lives has 80% of the resources available. But to convert the right, in the right way, and to design production in the country, and to valorize it through the right prices at the time of the product placed and the bought-out, paid-off would then be the real result. However, our market in the same way, although we have a larger population in the country, otherwise 80 percent of peasants hold all agricultural resources again, from land not to speak further, in their own hands. However, the question is, where does this end, who organises the production and how it returns to the countryside and in which it participates in gross national income. Unfortunately, it is expressed in one small percentage and is not actually valorized in the right way. If we want to accept peasants as necessarily evil, I must say so because he is a landscape gardener and he maintains drinking water, he creates roads where no one makes them. He's actually fighting for such a situation on the ground that he doesn't finish unprocessed land means where no one else is coming. Then we must understand that we must provide him on the other side and the placement of that product. This is one of the attempts at how to organize production and help the countryside not to finish it at any cost. It's that the market is organized and the peasant has a safe placement. We had green and blue before, we had self-government agreements with the former socialist system where large trading houses in the same or similar way tried to create a base where products are packaged or processed part of the product and placed it in the market. The fact is, through tourism to the end and to ensure sometimes so much desire of the exchange. So they're telling us that we're the golden chick that's taking the virgin eggs, because they sold them directly through tourism and cashed them in. Some who have done this work may remember that "stincungu" is so-called "stincungu". Such companies actually kept liquidity and lived on it. Now we're trying a whole other model, which is not necessarily the opposite of competing with someone to belittle someone. To place some of the agricultural products, I'm talking on purpose only about agricultural products, which would end up on our table. But if we don't take this chance now, then it's hard to say more about the landscape that we have a clean landscape, meaning the environment, that we have clean drinking water. If we'd produced healthy food because unfortunately this is all the analysis that we're doing and what kind of food we're getting here is the last attempt at importing in what way, I think we'll be quick to know this milk came in. Over the so-called. Soft borders ended up on our products. It's one of the alarm signs that doesn't happen that everything anyone offers us in any kind of quality and quality ends up on our desk. This is happening in tourism, both you and I and all of us who are involved in it can hardly accept that people are complaining about any kind of food because we have to produce it at home quality. And if this little effort would be sufficient to sell, in addition to the Slavonic cuisine of prosciutto and a pair of paška cheese products, and so on, which as a Croatian product can now be sold at any price only one has, let it be quality and produce it. Then it would likely result that at least 10 more such products could be produced in the country. Place. Because a foreign tourist asks for healthy food autochton produced and he does it. Especially wine, and all together. And despite this law that's restrictive. But it's still a sign d if it's a good quality to sell. Therefore, this should all be seen in a broader policy concept because ultimately our Government says that the Croatian agricultural model must provide farmers through market mechanisms and direct support to an appropriate and above all stable income. And thus to the young generation the safety and attractiveness of the peasant call. So if you were to secure safe income means securely who produces it, when they sell to whom they sell it, then to keep one population that migrates, we want to admit it, or we don't want to sit in cities, where there's a situation not simply impossible to endure from housing, from the simple traffic of everything together. Then we could have one safe production, one secure population policy, and eventually population as much as we need. It is therefore worth fighting for these principles to find a model of how to help, I speak only to the village and to the agricultural producers regardless of how they organised at which level and at which level. Tourist chains and all those who are engaged in tourism indicate that it is necessary because it is a multiple benefit and task for all of us who should advocate in this regard. That's why I clearly support this way of thinking, but until the second reading, it would be good if all those who are challenging us in one way or another would join us. In addition, I do not believe that the government would deliberately support the import lobby without turning to domestic production and domestic production prefer and help in this way we propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32622	Thank you very much. Whether the applicant's representative wants a final review. Here you go. Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32623	Let Mr. President-in-Office, fellow Members and colleagues, at the end of this debate on this proposal of the law, say it may sound too optimistic but the satisfaction of having a positive view of the positive views in the context of the proposal at all discussed. And I believe this debate, despite not everyone's ability to look at it and participate in it, will leave a mark. And that it will cause a certain doubt, but also that it will explain some things that are almost in a conceptual sense wrongly placed. Namely, I and all those who have read the argument and opinion of the government in the context of this bill, if we leave out that sentence which may be crucial but also does not have to be crucial because it is not important to accept this bill. It's the least important. If the government does not support the adoption of this law, but if the text written by the Government is read, in particular, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the idea of encouraging domestic production for tourism placement, i.e. the connection between the tourism sector and domestic agricultural producers. But the opinion is that the development of measures to encourage through the law should be preceded by the identification and analysis of the overall quantitative and qualitative needs of tourism, i.e. the potential of a production economy. What the government says here is different from what I've been saying here all along. Our goal is common, the way and the means to reach our goal, I am absolutely leaving it to the government. I have absolutely no reason to believe that if we agree to an end and you saw here saying that the government is agreeing to this bill. So we can meet. But unfortunately, this kind of thinking, I'm going to say it now, even in the professional public, didn't often get the right to vote and all the views that tried to go in this direction were welcomed by gentlemen to the knife. Not from today, why. Well, because obviously we haven't fully understood what this is all about. Because I remember very well in this Visko home Mr. Kalmeta said that, we support this way of thinking. And if Vlada's project is a Croatian product for Croatian tourism whose projection is during the call for tenders can be based on concrete measures without what happens in the lending system where credit can be reached but there is no line connecting the producer, agricultural producer, peasants with the tourist market. That's what we want to connect, and that chain and that frame exist. Kolar said well that by 89, there was a chain that worked, so the vervain factory of agricultural products communicated with Istria and had a leading contract in which it knew exactly how much each year it delivered and what it was delivering and when it paid and how the state financed the chain. Therefore, in the present conditions of trade production within the country as it was, there was a particular interest which was profiled in this way. Of course, under new circumstances, we have to set ourselves up differently. Nothing else, nothing different and nothing more rigorous than the way our competition in Europe is set up, just like they are. So if we come to the conclusion from this, that we are exactly what the government says, that we support the idea of strengthening the manufacturing sector and thus also the tourism sector. Why? Because tourism is just creating a brand in agricultural production. You today and in Zagreb, the Opera Hotel was called, the Opera Hotel, obviously had to change its name to raise business to a level. Why? Because he needs a brand name. He needs something he doesn't have. And he got nothing in terms of relations in the quality of rooms, food and everything he didn't have before, but he needed a world name so that he would have a right to the market that he wanted to be present in, and that is the market where the guests who are high paying powers move. Also, our tower and our Pag cheese have all the elements to become a European and world brand, but we must create that possibility. First, to register it, secondly to create the quantity that is necessary for it to be shown and placed on the market, not only Croatia but also outside. And most importantly, any such product can be placed right across the Croatian tourist market, because it is much easier than through German. We'll certainly have fewer opportunities and fewer, and we'll need more funding. Therefore, I am pleased and that the government accepts that this is so-called. Previous reading or previous discussion. I'm satisfied and the HSS Club is satisfied and I believe and we're all happy here that this idea is summed up through the measures that in a year, two will bear fruit and in a few years we'll say that of those two or three billion dollars we kidnap 70, 80 or God give it 100%, and then I believe we'll all be satisfied. So I believe that nothing will happen if we miss this second reading or if the government comes out with similar, better solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32624	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will postpone the vote on the Proposal for a Law on the Encouragement of Domestic Production in Tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32628	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, one previous note on the meaning of these legislative proposals by opposition deputies. Put forth a great deal of effort to write a law, to participate in the work of working bodies, and then, in fact, there's no direct political benefit because there's no public insight about what you're doing, about what we're doing here today, there won't be any letters, and of course the purpose of our job is to give it to the public. So it is actually a destimulation of a very important form of action by the representatives, which means legal initiatives by representatives in the Croatian Parliament. But what's there is. And another note. We have made a decision that the Government does not necessarily have to be present or its representatives at our sessions when discussing some laws and now it is shown that it is actually a rule. The last three, four legislative proposals do not have a single representative of the government, and it is not the sense that the government is doing one thing, Parliament is doing the other and vice versa, but that the Government and Parliament are communicating and even when legislative proposals are not accepted. But that's one methodological note. Surely it will discourage one part of the MPs from proposing, and that also means the exhaustion of their ability, their work. And now I'm going to say about this law and talk about it as if there are cameras involved and it's like there's all kinds of public presence, so I'm going to fully explain this law, regardless of what's less and less in the hall. In fact, this law aims at only one change to the existing Health Protection Act, which means that the text is added in Article 8 of that law, which is based on a basic network of health activities and is actually about those hospitals that are founders of the county and cities and which, in fact, there are different interpretations of whether the state should participate in these hospitals with investment investments. The existing law, in our opinion, allows the state to participate with investment investments in these hospitals because, in our opinion, this is clearly seen in Article 9 of this Law, where it is said that the government sets out the criteria which will be the basis for planning support from the state budget for the county hospitals. Therefore, this possibility exists, but the government has interpreted it differently and, of course, the government's interpretation has been approached by both the parliamentary majority and all the parliamentary committees. Therefore, we are aware that this is not a problem in the law, but the problem is, in fact, in the political will, we have proposed such solutions in a law in which there will be no legal possibility for such interpretations. And namely the interpretation that county hospitals and hospitals which are founded cities are located in the basic network of health care to disable or challenge the possibility of support from the state budget. So that's our point. Now, what's really the point of all this. So this is kind of a technical, normative description of the law. What's the point of all this? In the county hospitals in the Republic of Croatia for many years, it has not actually been invested, and I think only one or two hospitals have been built in the last 20 years and there is no dispute that health care is uneven in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is not the same health care in the eastern Croatia, northwestern Croatia, Dalmatia, Istria and Zagreb. In this sense, Zagreb dominates, and this is neither in accordance with the Constitution nor in accordance with any higher principles, all people should have approximately equal health care. In that sense be even, and that is not the case. People who are from Zagreb are closer to Zagreb hospitals, people from eastern Croatia must travel 200, 300 and more kilometers to get to these better Zagreb hospitals instead of, of course, in Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Virovitica Zagreb in this sense dominates Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Virovitica, Čakovec, Zabok, creating approximately the same health care conditions as in Zagreb. That is the meaning of it, therefore, is the equality of the citizens of this country, and that is also the issue of regional even development. If you do not have adequate health care, then other flows of money, educated people, etc. They are heading towards Zagreb and that is, of course, something that in my opinion and in our opinion is actually a devastating effect and this was therefore an attempt to prevent it in some way in that segment. Of course it's a bit of a broader policy issue, but this is one of the attempts. So if you allow people across the territory of the Republic of Croatia to have approximately equal health care, then you will partially prevent these negative tendencies, the depopulations of our counties and the even regional development of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on 22 May 2003, entitled "The Plan for the Development of Hospital Institutions in the Republic of Croatia", with a fundamental idea to rebuild or upgrade almost all county hospitals in which the counties would participate with 65% of the funds, among which are partly decentralised funds from the state level itself, except in the hospitals of Zabok and Virovitika because these counties were unable to endure and there was a set of 50% of state participation. On this basis, 13 contracts with Croatian hospitals were signed. This means that no contracts have been signed with one part of these hospitals, but all the counties and all the cities have accepted the idea with great heart regardless of whether it was cities or counties in which the government is this or that. So it was an idea that equally tried to solve the restoration, i.e. to achieve a health standard in all our cities in exactly the same way. Not to favor this county where we have power or where you and you didn't have power, etc. rather than in a completely equal way trying to solve the issue of developing the health system of the Republic of Croatia with credit arrangements that would go on for 10 years, and the total weight of the project is somewhere around 7 billion kuna. Unfortunately, the new government that came has had a different view of all this. She didn't want to accept the project, and she actually just continued those projects where the work had already started, and all the other projects were stopped, done, and that was a question which, of course, caused great difficulties. I have followed several parliamentary questions here on the topic addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia where the government has decidedly said that it suspended that decision except in the cities of Čakovec, Varazdin and Zabok where these works began. So in all other places these contracts were suspended, and of course there were controversial statements. The Minister of Health, the former health minister today, said that some projects would continue, for example, in Pula, because he had such a feeling and because he felt that there should be, and then of course it was a question and why not in Virovitica, why not in Osijek, why not in Zadar, why not in Split. It was precisely this approach that the government adopted that was defended by these arbitration decisions by anyone, including the Minister of Health or the Government itself. So it's something that's absolutely not good. Of course, after that, questions were asked what about those contracts that were concluded, what about those projects that were accepted, what about the money that was invested to make these projects. Some counties have shown interest in funding themselves, but the question is, will they be able to do it? For example, representatives of the Virovitica-Podravska County said they would not respect them, or they would not be discouraged by that decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that they will continue to finance the hospital themselves. But I'm afraid they don't have the strength for it. If they finance the upgrade, i.e. the modernisation of the hospital in Virovitica, they will not be able to finance some other very important content of the county's competence. So it's something that's absolutely harmful. If we have to invest somewhere, which is therefore an investment of 7 billion kuna in the next 7 to 10 years, then this should have been invested exactly in the health system, it encourages not only these values that I was talking about but it encourages and investments. This is not only consumption, of course, at least there is consumption and that is, to satisfy the fundamental interest, i.e. the fundamental right of citizens, which is that they have the right to adequate health care. Unfortunately, that is not the case, and therefore we propose that this law be amended so that there is no possibility of such interpretation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, some statements by Mr. Hebrang, which is precisely those contracts signed and those not signed, were only letters of intent of the County and the Government on the signing of the contract, all if you remember a year ago when there was a big debate about the large debts of the Ministry of Health, all of them were letters of intent of the County and of the Government on the signing of the contract, all of which he placed for debts in 2003 and then such a cumulative debt presented to the Croatian public, including those hospitals in which there was no agreement at all, not only that the anunities would not come in 2003, but in 2008, but even where there was no contract signed, where Minister Hebrang's financial arrangement was not concluded at the time. So this is essentially the result of the political will, Mr. Minister, of course, which was followed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we think it is a very harmful decision, and what we are trying to achieve by this legal proposal, that there can be no argument behind it that can be a fruit of the interpretation of the law. So if this is a political position that the Republic of Croatia does not have an even or equal health care system at the level of the network of basic health institutions, then it is a political stance, and then we can deal with it more easily and we can easily identify it and we can punish it if we have to, of course, think of voters and not anyone else, rather than hide behind the law. I am, of course, speaking this way because I am participating in the work of the Croatian Parliament Committee knowing what the government's opinion is, it is clear that there is no talk of any change at this stage of such a position, so of course I have to fully disprove the motivation, and motivation is therefore political will. What the former government has done is not good, we want to do it in a different way, and I am convinced that it is contrary to the interests of most citizens of this country, contrary to the equality of citizens with regard to such important rights as the right to health care and the opposite, in fact, to the interest of equal regional development of the country. If this country has money, and it has proved to be the social expenditures of the past year that it has money, then 7 or how much is it, about 7 billion kuna in the next ten years should be invested right in the health system. In that network that exists, which no one will question in order to achieve these fundamental objectives. Here, colleagues and colleagues. So that's the intensity of our proposal. I invite you, of course, to support this proposal. And of course, what's in the contents of this proposal is going to be spoken in the political processes that are ahead of us. We are ahead of local elections and surely this will be one of the important topics that we will be dealing with in a local campaign when we explain to the citizens of our county what can actually be done from the state level for such an important issue of their interest as health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32629	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32630	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct the inaccuracies of the esteemed colleague Radosh, where he cited the signed contracts at Virovitica for building a hospital building. That's not true. The agreement was signed, not the contract on 23.12.2003. If you had any good intentions in the former government, you would certainly have done projects like this before and ended up with them by the end of the term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32631	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32632	I didn't say, I said, I didn't say there was a contract signed with a hospital in Virovitica. I said the contract was signed with 13 hospitals in the Republic of Croatia of 21 hospitals. So you corrected something that wasn't an incorrect quote because I didn't say it and you violated the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32633	It seems to me that Virovitica was mentioned, but Okay, we'll see. [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] We'll take a look at it. The committee's reporters? They do. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32634	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 as regards the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The health care law explicitly determines that counties and cities provide funds for investment, investment and ongoing maintenance of health institutions owned by them. However, what situation do we have in practice? The fact is that by accepting and implementing a decentralisation system in health care in some counties, funds for investment investments are missing. In particular, one part, i.e. most of the units of local and self-government, are not financially qualified to be able to finance all the obligations prescribed by law. This applies in particular to the founding rights and obligations they have in relation to the functioning of basic health care and education. Now this lack of funds is trying to bridge in some way, or compensate for the aid of balancing from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, and to the level of minimum standards established annually by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of standards and criteria. If we remember a little bit, we recently passed the Law on Patients' Rights in this assembly, and among other things, it is said that patients, one of the primary rights of patients, are to enable them to have equal quality service available to all insurance companies. Now let's just remember what kind of situation we have in health care. I may look back on the health situation with a few sentences. In fact, we know that one part of the county, I think that number is moving somewhere half-half, has spent a merger, or fusion of health homes in a unique home of the health of the county. One part of the county did not implement the process because a year ago, or year ago, the government's arrival, the minister suspended it by saying he wanted to examine the legality of the merger process. So we actually have a double system of functioning of homes of health, i.e. primary health care. And now I will speak, i.e. say a few sentences just what situation we have in the Split-Dalmatia County where the process went very quickly without the preparatory action being carried out. And in that entire year, how much this unique home of health works has virtually not adopted any acts other than the Statute of the Home of Health. Sometimes I wonder if someone was interested, or interesting, in the very decentralisation funds that come to the health home of Split-Dalmatia County, but the end-users of these funds get very little. So let's say it happens in the House of Health in Makarska that it hasn't worked x-ray for months because there was no means of repairing the malfunction. We have in the House of Health a Makarska mammographer who was obtained exclusively by humanitarian actions, but that mammographer didn't work for months first, and now he's working practically by looking at four patients because we don't have a frame that should work there. For a long time already in that same House of Health has been bid on the survival of the stationary, it is bid on the survival of the birthplace, and I would point out only one fact that this same House of Health was mainly built out of citizens' self-dependence. Therefore, I think that these citizens should be those who should be asked something and who should actually have both the first and the last words when it comes to theirs, because these funds have been allocated precisely in order to have better and more accessible health care. We have also talked about human rights here recently, we have discussed the National Consumer Protection Programme, and I think that one of the basic human rights, so if we are going to talk about consumer protection right next to labour rights and health rights, i.e. access to health care. Health care should therefore be based on fairness, availability, quality and efficiency. In order for this to be achieved, of course, we should then develop such health care that it would be, where the availability of all users would be better, fairer, means fairer health services. They should seek to implement new treatment methods, short or shorter waiting lists, quality service, greater efficiency and solidarity. In order for all these objectives to be achieved, we must, among other things, have justice in raising funds for health funding and a fairer distribution of funds for the needs of the population. From all of this, or from all of this I have said, ways to increase financial resources to cities and counties that will allow their normal functioning should be proposed as soon as possible. This is certainly one more extensive and perhaps more long-term process, and until it is passed I think that this law, which we have heard from the promoters now, tends to make it possible for these, perhaps so to say, shortcomings that in some way reduce the availability of health and quality of health care, to maybe bridge the adoption of a more high-quality and comprehensive law that would then benefit citizens, i.e. patients as end-users of health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32635	Thank you very much. And distinguished representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32636	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just a little bit considering the late hours. So, namely, what makes it very difficult for me to accept this is for two reasons. I am not inclined to enter into such a law as the Health Protection Act in only one segment, and I am not sure that this change will bridge something into the new law because until it is implemented in the practice of this legal provision, it will mature the time to change the law that is in preparation and which is in Croatia's medical chamber of consent. Secondly, only the changes in this section that would allow State funding, by the Ministry of Health of these hospitals which are not currently covered by this Law raises a question and governance structure, the ownership structure which, if I understand correctly, does not cover, makes it very difficult to expect that someone will finance and provide you with funds without in any way controlling the funds spent, i.e. the funds that will end up for the expense of certain county hospitals. I would just like to remind you, you also said this in the proposal and Mrs and colleague Martic now that the Law was passed in 2003 and indeed there was a need to take care of the availability, equality of health care for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but obviously they were intensities at that moment of the second. And finally, the question of a network of health institutions, changes, non-changes I think is a minor problem, and also financing whether the state or centralized means, I don't think I'm going to say an earthquake without one serious one, but in any case, the procedure in the current hospital health care system that won't include a categorisation in which the hospital can finally determine what kind of thing to do where there really won't be cases where we have hospitals within 40 km of the general type and they do almost identical things, duplicate the capacities as normally used to say, so, without one serious categorization, it's very hard to expect even this kind of legal change, which would allow the investment of money, directly financed by the state, i.e. From some progress in terms of equality, improving the quality of health services will not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32637	Thank you very much, colleague Radosh. Would you like a final review? You're right. Mr. Antun Perushko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32638	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Very short five sentences, I didn't expect this item of the agenda to be at this late hour on the agenda. Not redistributing now and not repeating what is known to be health care is one of the most important segments and that man only knows how much health care is worth when unfortunately he needs it and certainly all citizens have the right to a quality health care service, and to quality hospital facilities. I come from the neighborhood, and that's why I came from a place where, since the departure of the Anglo-Americans from 47, everything invested in health care has been invested in health facilities by our citizens through self-dependence. And the last major investment that was made in Pula hospital was made in 87 years, and the means of self-supply also built new radiology and a new laboratory and it was the last investment. Then we got the first CT device, then the political leadership had both power and resources for magnetic resonances, but the province couldn't get these magnetic resonances, while some VMOs were being built in the former state, etc. Today we are in our country, we have our country, and with pleasure the citizens of Istria received news and a contract agreement concluded between the former government and the county, on an investment in the new Pula hospital, which is what my colleague Rados was talking about. I am aware of the fact that there are... ownerships, that it is a matter of ownership structure which is spoken of by colleague Prgomet, however, it is the objects where not even a disputed ownership structure and where it is possible and different ownership structure but it is unequivocal that the objects of which are municipal, urban, regional, are state, are ours and I think that this proposal, which I support, even if it was in the first reading to pass the second reading, and that other modulations are being created in this way, the assumptions that those investments that have been made and that I am also questionable, former Minister Hebrang said that the Pula Hospital would go, so there should be the signing of the agreement at the end of last year, so some announcements by the end of January of this year have not been made, and I am still extremely interested that this facility is being realised, and in a situation where 92% of all tax revenues in the state are clearly known to be located in the local and 4% of the city. For this reason, with the aim of no politics but for the real need, I support the club's position personally, I don't even know the club's position, I support the proposal that lies ahead of us today, and I think that leaving it to another reading can find the modes and ways to treat the health issue in the way that it deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32639	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32640	Thank you very much, not to get the wrong impression I know from personal experience how things are because I was working on parole in a small hospital, and I work at the Clinical Hospital Center, and I really know what kind of problems these fewer, let's call, hospitals meet but you were talking about Pula Hospital. In a certain way, there is a paradox that you have a hospital that is a construction hospital, so in the infrastructureal almost worst hospital in Croatia in the richest region. The question now arises whether it is fair for the state to invest in the infrastructure of the Pula hospital and to abandon Lipik, Pakrac, Vukovar and other centres. The second problem is management, the Pula hospital is unfortunately for years when it comes to losses in the first place in the Republic of Croatia, so I really don't doubt the need to finance and help in the infrastructure of such hospitals but I think some things should be done in my own house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32641	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32642	I absolutely agree with my colleague Prgomet and I am always and I know the needs, I know what the situation is in Lipik, Pakrac and in the end we weren't lucky, Istria where I come from wasn't in the same situation that those parts of us were in, and I am in any case for maximum solidarity at the state level, but because of these and those attitudes, we've heard the same thing in the former state. The richest region and then it was built, and only in Istria was it not built, and I think that really the citizens of Istria and it stands out in the budget if we have a richer region and we are not looking for anything special but only an adequate return of funds because the citizens of Istria and the most tourist region really deserve better quality hospital facilities than this disgrace that is in Pula right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32643	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32644	Thank you very much. Here are some advantages in such chamber atmospheres, you can argue more calmly with perhaps more arguments to talk about a problem. First of all, I thank all who took part in the debate, Mrs Martic, for contributing to the reminder of the Patients' Rights Act. A law passed after these events two years ago and in 2003, which further stresses the right of citizens to have approximately equal access to basic health care. The law further stresses this, and thus the obligation of the state is even stronger to ensure these conditions. I don't mean the state as a central state, but the state as a complete system of state administration. Speaking of these issues first of all to counterpart Djakic without the intention of speaking freely, I can now speak more freely, pollomise with him, I was talking about the fact that in 8 hospitals no contract was signed but only letters of intent were sent. Apparently, among those 8 hospitals were also hospitals in Virovitica, and given the circumstances at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee he was a representative of Virovitica and then he resolutely stated that the county would finance it itself, however. It won't work. As Mr. Minister Mršić answered, who asked the question after the government broke a contract with a general hospital in Koprivnica, the minister replied: "The termination of the agreement does not mean the termination of activities on the project because there is the possibility of realisation from other sources of funding." Again, I fear that there is no possibility because it is difficult for the County and the Koprivnica-Crysing but also for Istria to find funds for such large infrastructure projects and that is why it was a good solution for the state and county to take equal participation in such important matters with 35%, except in the case of these two hospitals in Zabok and Virovitica. That was the solution. The county can't do this alone. A few years ago, the mayor of Istria said, I no longer followed these relations, as the budget of the general hospital's pulse is higher than the county's budget. This speaks of what the county’s capacities are and also the Istrian counties to participate in, and the question asked by a colleague, counterpart Prgomet has been settled in law. In our Law, Article 8 states that the state finances other health services and investments beyond the basic health care network, which means health homes and public health institutions in areas of special care. That's clear. In this sense, the state is leading a stronger, more prominent concern because it is logical because these areas of special state care do not have these financial possibilities and there the state finances not only the basic network, not only hospitals but also financing a complete, health care system, which means health homes, public health institutions and so on. According to my colleague Prgomett's point of view as a possible lack of this law, it is not a lack of law. In the law, it exists, whether it is a good balance, that is, of course, a second question, but by this, our areas that are poorer differ and have additional support from all other systems. As far as financing and supervision of funding and management rights are concerned, I don't think the issue is well affected. These hospitals are hospitals that are hospitals of county and cities. The founders and owners of the county and cities are there. It's a one-time investment of the state. It is second that the state will finance these hospitals permanently then it would make sense to ask questions and supervision of the financing or management rights of management and so on. This is about the one-time financial aid activity of the State in the form of investments. I do not think it is appropriate or well affected to ask in this segment the issue of management rights and hospital financing. As for the categorization of hospitals, I agree with my colleague Prgomet, but I'm afraid that question is not directly related to this. We categorize hospitals and invest in our hospitals, some kind of regional or sub-regional specialization can be achieved regardless of whether the state invests or will not invest in hospitals. It's a question of our ability to agree that some hospital that's 40 kilometers away from another doesn't exactly cover the exact same content. It's not about this job, and I'm afraid equally that we won't be able to revise the perhaps irrational network of our hospitals for many years. She's set up as she's set up. Today, it is very difficult to expect that some government would have the power to completely abolish a general hospital. That's pretty hard to expect. That would be ideal, of course, because what we have today means that we have a very luxurious hospital schedule in terms of their spatial distribution, and in fact, modest health care. The humble offer these hospitals offer. Of course it's not rational. But the question is what authority, county authority or state authority will have the strength to lift any general hospital, even if it's a general hospital in Nasice that's only 40 kilometers away from the hospital in Osijek, but who's going to do it. Of course, the solution is to specialize in this hospital in relation to some of the contents that are not specifically developed in the Osijek hospital but it is not in collegiate with this law, therefore. And wait until we've completely solved the network, to make a categorization, and then access more serious investment investments in hospitals, I'm afraid it's illusory. I think it's such an extensive job not only of a technical nature but of a politically very difficult job first. I'm afraid that in the near future, our governments, let's say, from a short period of five or ten years, will not do so, and until then, we don't have to wait and wait to bring health care into the basic network for our citizens at approximately the same level throughout the country. And so that's what I thought, that should be said. Of course, I'm calling on all my colleagues at least I know what the fate of this proposal is to accept the proposal. If the proposal is not accepted, I think its purpose is to discuss it, that this important issue, a really important issue in some way extends awareness, that, to talk first here in Parliament but of course I am sorry for the importance of this issue which we are discussing in these circumstances and what, apart from perhaps a press conference held, you do not actually have the opportunity to forward this important issue to the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-17-0.u32645	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The session continues on Wednesday, 23rd at 9.30 p.m., and we will begin with points 33 to 36 of the consolidated agenda proposal. Therefore, the urgent procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, the Law on Amendments to the Law on Child Rights, the Emergency Procedure, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime and the Final Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations. These two laws on, are P.Z.E. The latter have an advantage over the others. Thank you very much. Resumption 23 at 9.30. Proposal for a Law amending the Health Protection Act. First reading, Bill 173. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending the health care law proposed by representatives William Herman, Željko Pavlic and Jozo Radoš is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. Score. The conclusion was accepted because it was voted by 73.1 abstention and 36 against it.
