ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u41997	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you all very much! I welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, the Vice President and the members present. This session also begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the Homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. I invite you to pay tribute to the fallen Croatian defenders and all the civilian victims of the war for a minute of silence. - A moment of silence - - May they have eternal glory and thank you! - Praise them! - You received the minutes from the 14th and 15th session of the Croatian Parliament. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 14th and 15th sessions in the text as you have received them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I included two new points in the final draft agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, and the Second - Proposal for a Decision on the granting of one-time assistance to cities and municipalities to partially mitigate the consequences of storm and storm damage from November 94, as well as the freezing and application of snow from February 2005, is the Proposer of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from elementary disasters. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under point 6 below, paragraphs 15 to 21 and paragraph 26 sets out the laws proposed for the adoption of an emergency procedure, these are: Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Second, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, with the Final Proposal for the Law. Thirdly, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the supply abroad of judicial and non-judicial documents in civil or commercial matters, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of a National Fund between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, with the Final Proposal for a Law. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of San Marino on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes, with the final proposal for a law. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of San Marino on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes, with the final proposal for a law. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Inspectorate, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, with the Final Proposal of the Law. And the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Do any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? There isn't. What? Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the other proposed laws? Dear Representative Damir Cain, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u41998	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. In front of the IDS Club, we propose to remove the emergency procedure for point 26 more precisely for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, and for the Law on the Register of Court and Public Insurance for the Search of Believers in Moving Things and Rights under Rule 25, P.Z. No. 280.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u41999	Thank you. We're going to the vote. Please engage. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42000	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42001	Please, peace. Please make a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42002	So, since I have been informed by many, here are more of them, that they do not have the key to the vote, I propose that the adoption of the agenda be voted by hand-lifting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42003	I must respect that proposal, but please why we have an electronic voting system. I ask all MPs and MPs to keep this in mind and to have these keys with them. What? Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 121 votes, the adoption of the Law is a matter of urgency. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation? Thank you. Against? 109 for, 12 against. The law goes into the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is involved in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Delivery abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 122 votes, it is established, on the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is in favour of the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of the National Fund between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission? Thank you. Against? Unanimity included with 123 votes for the emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of San Marino on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes? Thank you. Against? I find it unanimous with 123 for this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is it for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament? Thank you. Against? With 102 votes for, 21 against and this bill, final, included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the State Inspectorate Act? Thank you. Against? 120 votes for, 3 against, this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials? Thank you. Against? I find that with 121 votes for and 2 against and this Final Bill proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts? In doing so, the Law’s proposal was objected to by Agent Cain. Please, who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? I find that with 97 votes for and 26 against and this Final Bill proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is considered adopted in accordance with Article 203(4). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure can now only be made available to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, with a call for a session, and under point 27 of the proposal for a decision to grant one-time assistance to cities and municipalities for partial mitigation of the consequences of the damage. Any of the MPs object to including this point in the agenda? There isn't. I'm putting the vote into the agenda of this point. Who's in? Thank you. Against? unanimously with 123 votes for this item is included in the agenda. I should now publish the names of all the points of the agenda, but if you agree, I suggest not to read the full agenda but just to announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft of the law. Does the Parliament agree with that? Yes, the agenda is established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the most respected representative of Nikola Ivanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42004	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, as far as the agenda is concerned, I would only ask you as president to tell me where the initiative has come to buy-in privatisation and its negative consequences to the fall session agenda. Since we have 3 points on the privatisation agenda, including amendments and additions to the Law, I believe it was too much to discuss before the debate on item 15 of the amendments to the Law, so I would ask you to answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42005	You have suggested a inclusion in the agenda of the points related to coupon privatisation. I delivered this proposal to the government and we expect a response from the government. And as soon as the government's response comes, or the government's material will immediately be placed on the agenda. Let's get ready to vote. No manual vote, no electronic vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please engage to check the quorum. Let's see the quorum. 84. Why are these five like this and 79 like this? Okay. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose an addition to the agenda of this session with two points: 1. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission; 2. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for the Social and Economic Recovery Project between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with the final proposal of the Law So, to put these two points on the agenda. First, I'd like to get a report from the Mandate Commission immediately today and discuss and absorb, two new representatives are coming. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the adoption of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty? There isn't. Please, who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 196 votes for, 1 abstention and 1 against on the agenda by emergency procedure, the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for the Project between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was included. Please, colleagues and colleagues, a little attention, we'll be done soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42010	I ask that no debate be held on this point for the reason that tomorrow and the Committee has scheduled a session, because you know that the problem of Slunjski, municipalities and the City of Slunj is related to military polygon and misunderstandings over military polygons and could be misread. So please hold off for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42011	Okay. Then we'll end up with work today, end the session. Tomorrow at 9.30 we will begin the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the State Inspectorate, and after that we will move to a debate by clubs as agreed on the proposal of the Declaration under the Law on the Protected Environmental Zone and the Epicontinental Belt adopted by the Slovenian Parliament on 4 October 2005. Proposer of this Declaration are all clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I interrupt the session, resume tomorrow at 9.30 with this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42012	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HSP Club, I think that the facts contained today in all the presses in Croatia, about the huge listening affair that was during the former government, is that we cannot go beyond that to not determine the facts and not determine everything that happened. For this reason, please, there is no president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, we should meet as an emergency committee today or at the latest next week and determine the fact that we do not allow these further speculations that could harm Croatia in terms of and accession negotiations and everything else, and it is normally most important to establish a factual state and then inform the public that they would not create a familia and that they know what they were doing, if someone committed a crime to finally begin to answer to this country for something that they were not supposed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42013	Thank you. There are relevant state authorities and institutions to which I will convey what you have said and what will happen to both the Government and the President of the Committee who is not present here, so we will see from now on. So now here's Mr. Damir Caine, he too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42014	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. If indeed the truth is that the bishops were listening, athletes, politicians, it is a scandal that cannot be kept secret. If listening to citizens of another country, such as Cardinal Puljic, it is simply terrible, it is that the right hand marched to Croatia in an attempt to come to power but the government had to march only by law and not to go outside the law. And so much minimum would be the decency to get some information d but these inscriptions were correctly transmitted, whether it was really happening or if one of the MPs had given himself the freedom to draw attention to himself by claims that he was somehow being followed, processed or controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42015	Thank you very much. I have already asked Mr Kovacevic that I would transfer to the President of the Government and the President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security this intervention of yours, now I ask that we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42016	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Tonci Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42017	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we vote without actually knowing what we will always vote on first, at least not with regard to all the materials that have arrived, which are ready for the vote, and this is about one specific case, and this is about the case relating to the vote of the motion for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council. Please answer me because we have no other option to determine whether it will be put to the vote, since everything is prepared or not. In that sense, I would like to warn of the potential consequences of this unless it is put to the vote. First. The decision has been prepared. The Media Committee has made a decision. A whole otherwise very complicated assembly procedure has been carried out. All elements concerning the requirements of the law relating to the possibility and way of selecting that programme council and at the same time expires on 17th of this month, respectively. Therefore, one part of the members of the Council whose term of office ceases. Since there is already a lot of hearing about it in various ways and beyond this Assembly, in various writings, and since different intentions are interpreted regarding who, which and how he wants related to the appointment of this Programme Council, I am thinking and asking and asking on behalf of the SDP Club for this point to be classified and therefore within the legal time limit for the Parliament to carry out its legal obligation and to appoint a council as legally established by the procedure which has been legally implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42018	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the term of office of five members of the HRT Programme Council expires on 17 October. It's 14. The Parliament would now conclude this session and, if the members of the council were not elected, then a legal and political vacuum would take place and I would therefore put it to the vote today, a proposal for a decision under the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. That's what we'll discuss and vote on today. Now I suggest we determine the quorum first. The result? 82 MPs and MPs and in the hall we have a quorum. We begin by asking questions to the government or to an individual member of the government. All MPs and deputies know the drill. First respected representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42020	Mr. President, I will ask my question to Minister Calmeti, on the subject of the development of the area of special state concern. Mr. Minister, the government has declared its intention and purpose to initiate and assist the development of areas of special state concern and, of course, we agreed. But in a large part of that space, especially in the areas of return, there is still no assumption of what is now wisely referred to as "sustainable life", and especially what is called "sustainable", so "sustainable development conditions". Until then, I must remind, they've become destroyed economic capacity, torn agricultural cooperatives. In Eastern Slavonia we have information and now tends to or dispute the return of land to people. The municipalities can't do anything on their own and remain untapped. Instead of winning, I actually think that instead of getting a life and people, there's a danger of getting a desert. My question is, what is the government planning to do to make things change and change?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42021	Minister Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42022	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, so I'm just going to mention in answer to this question, or as an introduction to this question, that from 1995, it's only when the renovation started to date that only the 4th to 6th category has so far been spent around 15 billion kuna and that more than 130 thousand houses have been renovated. In addition, new about 250 schools, over 100 sacral objects, have been renovated and built so far in these areas. Only HEP has invested in these areas over the past 10 years about 630, 640m euros. So, as far as the sum of what's been invested in these areas is concerned, I think that number's moving somewhere around 25 billion kuna. But clearly this has been so far and now the government is still considering these areas and investing considerable funds only from the position of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. This year in the budget planned a billion and a half kuna for these areas and a whole series of projects that should lead to it and do what you were just talking about, which is one sustainable development in these areas. I'll just mention a few projects that are important and important to me. The first is the project with the European Investment Bank, so-called AIDS 1, worth 100m euros, and is used to restore social and municipal infrastructure. The second AIDS 2 programme, which the government adopted and brought this year, is an integrated development programme of the local community that also applies to these areas, and weighs around 300m euros over the next 3 or 4 years. And a programme that I think is also particularly important, and it's called a social and economic recovery programme in these areas. Why does he matter to me? Because it's a program with the World Bank, otherwise it's worth 60 million euros, and it's important to me because it has several components. From demining, rebuilding municipal and social infrastructure to the economic component, therefore, helping to establish and organise small and medium-sized enterprises in these areas. And another component that is also very important, and it is called institutional strengthening of the local community in terms of organisation of seminars, education, etc. So, in terms of the education of these people who run the local community and their training there, so to speak, how and how to use the funds and the state budget, but also other means that can be obtained in these areas. In addition, I will also mention clear tax reliefs in these areas for economic operators and a programme of economic zones led by my colleague Vukelić, who is largely related to these areas. But what I want to say more, and all in order to establish a sustainable life in these areas is that the Ministry is preparing as part of the CARDS Regional Development Strategy programme and will also be part of the Regional Development Act, which will be completed by the 10th month. Then he will come, clearly, before you here. Which will treat the development of these areas, i.e. where the development of these areas will have a very significant place and provide a framework in which the new Law must also be amended, i.e. the existing Law on Areas of Specific State Care. I think that when it comes to funding and all the programmes that work for these areas are really big and enough, but what I think is enough in these areas is exactly what this programme will do for social and economic development and funding, which is education of local communities, people who work in the local community, and how to establish life flows better than they are in these areas today. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42023	Thank you. Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42024	Mr. Minister, I can't, nor intend to challenge the statistics and grades you've given. I'll just be free to say that it seems to me that it's just an introduction to a big job that needs to be done, and it's about the needs of yesterday, not the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42025	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42026	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. I will refer the question to the president of the Croatian government, Dr. Ivo Sanader. The government established the State Council of Spatial Planning, seeking to protect and preserve Croatian space. As the coastal area of the Croatian Adriatic is now a great pressure, and also in the continental part, especially with regard to the exploitation of the stone. My question is, what are the effects of working on the Council of the Spatial Planning of the State, and what are the problems of the Council still to be addressed?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42027	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42028	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Representative. I would like first of all to say that the draft and the action of the State Space Planning Council was a full hit. We were all in Croatia witnessing a sad fact that what belongs absolutely to national values, and that is our space and preservation of that space that has been threatened by a great devastation. All that has been happening for the past 10 15 years and even before that, before Croatia's independence from illegal construction to devastation of space, as you yourself said through quarryes, etc. And we considered it necessary and it was one of the programs of this government that we realized right at the beginning that one central state body, the state council for spatial planning, should be responsible for the preservation of that national value, of our space. I believe that the work of the advice so far in these years and a half, a little more since the advice was founded in early 2004, showed extremely good results, encountered an extremely good echo in the Croatian public and that we sensitized through the work of the council, that we sensitized everyone in Croatia to work together to preserve this space. Of course, not to hitchhike construction but to hitchhike the apartmentization and concreteization and everything we witnessed on the Adriatic and what we are all against. But the Council also has another role to play when asking me what else is to be done, which is to propose that in the area of legislation certain measures, laws and in close cooperation with Minister Matulović-DRopulić's Resolute Ministry is doing, one of the latest proposals that we will soon consider in the Government is the establishment of an Urban, State Urban Institute for Spatial Planning and Planning, as one headquarters institution, namely such a department exists in the Ministry but it is shared that it should be separated from the Ministry in a special institution to give it even more importance and to keep the Council, through its overall work, sending very clear signals to the Croatian public and foreign public, that Croatia will now conduct such a policy of preservation of its premises, conservation and care for environmentals, but also that the advice through monitoring of spatial plans will in any way affect the fact that we receive only quality and tourism facilities and other construction. So I am assessing and holding that we can so far give an assessment of the good work of the Council but we expect it to continue with such work in the Council is the 7 leading Croatian experts who have shown so far before they became members of the Council in their professional career that they have taken care of these very segments. I therefore think that this was a full hit and we will continue to work, and the Council, as you know, visits all Croatian counties, participates and assists and assists in the development of spatial plans and thus quality contributes to the preservation of space as well as the selection of those quality projects, either in tourism, or in the area of construction behind which we can stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42029	Thank you. Representative Mario Zubović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42030	I thank the Prime Minister, and I am pleased with the answer, I hope that the other in Croatia means both the county and the architectural profession will give support to Mr Roshin and his Council because they will need that assistance to make their wishes come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42031	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. He's gone. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42032	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking my question to the Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader. Due to the violation of the right to access information, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia has reached a verdict against you, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, and in favour of journalist Jelena Perkovic, journalist Radio "101" who sued you because the government did not respond to her request for insight into all the monthly and quarterly reports of the government's internal control office for 2003, this is all the report... I wonder why you're hiding in documents you don't deliver here. What can I expect from other citizens, when even journalists from your government get documents on which they are entitled and what citizens can ever expect from the government in which its head man, the Prime Minister, does not respect such important laws for the development of democracy as the Law on the right to access information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42033	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42034	Mr. Representative, I thank you for this question because it is my chance to clear up a misunderstanding that has appeared in public. It is not true that the government did not deliver the documents requested by the journalist concerned, the contrary is correct. And since it is not about the Prime Minister, but rather about the fact that the Administrative Court of the Prime Minister, as the Prime Minister, has asked the Prime Minister to do so, I have argued that we did so before the court passed the acquis, therefore, the right to information will be fully respected and it is once again not true that the journalist in question did not receive all the information she asked for, was called by phone as the spokeswoman and the office of the Government who dealt with these affairs and was all delivered to her. If someone wants to politicize that thing, it's another thing, but the fact is quite different, she's got all the information she asked for, and I think that's the case solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42035	Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42036	I am extremely pleased that you have provided such an answer, I am surprised that the court has not suspended the proceedings if the Government has delivered documents and has informed the court that it has fulfilled its obligation under the request. It was the verdict, the court's decision. I do not want to politicise, I am looking forward to having the government deliver all the documents, but I warn you that as a representative still there on 20 May 2004, I referred to the Director of the Central Office of the Tax Administration, Mr. Ivica Mladne, a request to provide me with a solution from the tax administration addressed to Croatia on the basis of which HRT fully unlawfully requires the payment of VAT on tax revenue of 73 million kuna. Until today, Mr. Mladneo didn't answer me. It's been a year. I'm now wondering if I'm going to sue Mr. Mladne's court or if this would be enough for you to order.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42037	Thank you. Dear Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42038	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Culture Minister, hate speech is one of the forms of violence that devastates the deepest human relations. What it says about the culture of a society in the broadest sense is that it bears witness to the level at which the debate on important social problems takes place amongst people and often in the institutions themselves. In fact, hate speech is one of the indicators of the state of society and contrary to those who are theorizing the virtues of our civil society and suggest reducing constitutionally guaranteed rights, we are witnessing an increase in verbal but unfortunately other violence against members of national minorities. One of the areas where hate speech is strongest and most representative but also most dangerous because it is visited most often by young people is the Internet. In an apparent anonymous network, the most severe insults fall, the most difficult frustrations are revived by disgraceful myths from the past, such as fascism, Nazism and Ustasity. I'm not going to quote them, but I suggest that any of you go to Google and just write kill one of the nationalities and see how many results and what contents will come out. What is the most difficult insult on blogs, on websites, on forums and elsewhere on the Internet is just a daily average. The hate speech on the Internet is just a daily average. The hate speech on the Internet is certainly a global phenomenon but what concerns us is the percentage of violence on an international basis takes place in the entire Croatian Internet space. And the fact that the state has not responded at all to such a state or taken any action. The question I refer to the Minister of Culture, Mr. Bishop, is the government planning to at least try to limit such a wave of hate on the Internet in the near future, and if I do with any preventive and repressive measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42039	Thank you. Minister of Culture Bozidar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42040	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, the government has been passing and this House has passed such measures by passing two laws, the Media and Electronic Media Act. In fact, these laws prohibit hate speech and especially when it comes to electronic media here in publications in electronic media, measures are sanctions either temporary or complete withdrawal of permits. The main problem here is, of course, the problem of the Internet and the measures that are actually inconclusive on the Internet. But it's true that what you said is that the speech of violence and hate is growing. There's a lot to be done by society, and I think there's a lot I can do to the media. As far as the measures we have passed by the laws are concerned, they exist, and of course they apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42041	Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42042	Thank you very much. It is known that the area of the Internet is one of the most important areas of today's communication. What happens, of course, is not only Croatia. It happens all over the world, but governments are trying to put an end to it. I would suggest that you actually approach this more seriously and more responsibly because what today may seem harmless tomorrow will actually show what a generation is like and I actually don't think it's doing enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42043	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42044	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Damir Polancec. Mr. Vice President, Croatia has already had about 300 thousand unemployed workers and your government has abolished the measures to encourage the employment of the former coalition government through which about 80,000 people were employed. In addition, your government has not offered its other alternative employment programmes to date. At the same time, Mr. Vice President, you have stopped paying off all the incentives for the current contracts, and since February of this year, you have not paid a single kuna. When are you going to pay off your incentives and honor your own contracts and the rule of law in which the government and the state should implement their obligations in time, or are you going to do what you did in the next year to re-manipulate the deficits?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42045	Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42046	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Parliamentary Representative! I thank you for this question, but I have to defuse you. In the last two years, it has been paid in terms of measures to encourage employment somewhere around a billion and a half kuna, but what I want to mention is that we have not abolished these measures because we have no other solutions and because we do not know what we will do and how we will continue and what measures we will encourage future growth and development of employment. It doesn't seem your finding that at this point we have 300 thousand unemployed because the unemployment rate in the eighth month has reached the lowest level in the last few years. So, we're on our way. We define new measures for development and employment growth and that we are on a good path also confirms the fact that the unemployment rate in the eighth month is the lowest in the last few years and is below 17%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42047	Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42048	In fact, the Deputy Prime Minister himself has confirmed that they define and that they do not have alternative employment programmes which I am pleased they will come. And for now, I have to say, the only measure of employment on government salary. However, this did not solve the unemployment problem, and according to your data, monthly and seasonal employment did not reduce below 300 thousand unemployed workers. I'm not happy with the answer not for myself but for the public, so I'm asking the written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42049	Thank you. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42050	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is addressed to Minister Primorac, but since he is not here, I would ask Mr Nevi Šetić or the Prime Minister, it doesn't matter. This year, for the first time since the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families, the children of Croatian defenders have been granted direct enrolment. During the enrolment, lecturer and university students in Zagreb Professor Dr. Vjekoslav Jerolimov declares, quote "The Rector will analyse the quality of students who used benefits in enrolment as well as the effects of their enrolment on the quality of academic content. The competent institutions will have to consider the ethical and legal aspects of such enrollment in the autumn." In doing so, Dr. Jerolimov did not explain how the university will be accompanied by students, children of Croatian defenders. I want to know what kind of markings that's gonna be. If these will be markings that will discriminate against children in any way that the Government thinks they will take against it and that are sanctions for non-compliance with the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers adopted by this Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42051	Thank you. State Secretary Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42052	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam Representative. I just want to say that in this part of the law it is fully respected, that all those students of the children of the defender who passed the electoral threshold that they were enrolled. There have been some difficulties but for which a solution has been found and these comments by the prophet Jerolimov cannot comment but I think the ministry has done everything possible to meet the requirements of the law in this section.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42053	Honored representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42054	Thank you very much. I just wanted to know why the government didn't react to Dr. Jerolim's performances.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42055	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42056	Thank you, Mr. President. My question has been addressed to Mr. Ivan Shuker by the Minister of Finance. Although today is the last day of the summer we can already talk about a successful tourist season, although the most successful tourist season in the past 15 years and in society there are dilemmas, there is a point that tourism cannot actually become strategic Croatian products because it is a service activity and so on. So I would ask that the Minister finally resolve these dilemmas and answer our question whether the income from tourism is significant for the budget and to what extent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42057	Thank you. Minister Shuker, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42058	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! To talk about tourism and not to make comparisons of months that are not touristic with months that are touristic and come out of the data I think it would be illusory, but more unfortunately in Croatia for several years there has been no clear methodology to calculate the total turnover of tourism. But when we take for a comparative, say, March and the month of April for which we can say that the tourist months for the two most tourist months are seven and eight months, and when you take only VAT revenues, then VAT revenues are in the seventh and eighth months, compared to March and April, 16%, and also VAT revenues in the eighth month have the largest annual growth per month, and that's about 11%. If we look at the excise tax revenues and I'd like to say something when we talk about oil excises. It did not reduce excise income but decreased the structure of the oil derivatives to be sold. And it doesn't matter if you sell a liter of gasoline or a liter of oil because there's a difference in excise duties of almost 90 limes. So the nominal amount is, remained at the same level, but the amount has increased, but if you look at the growth of excise revenues March, April, July, August, then that growth is 38%, so almost 40%. The excise duties on tobacco are higher by over 45% in July and August compared to March and April, but what is very important is also to see that in annual growth in the summer months is 5.9%. So all of these indicators clearly suggest that tourism revenues generate growth as well as budgets generate economic growth but at this point we cannot avoid and not mention the fact that the problem of the gray economy is still present, but this year, by introducing vignettes, by amending the Maritime Code many things concerning "charter" have changed. I can only say that the customs administration controlled 400 temporary imports made it clear that more than 400 ships entered Croatia in 2002, 2003 and 2001 with the basis of temporary imports into Croatia. Of these 400 ships 50th, 60 was also used to carry out economic activity, and the main problem was that those temporary importers were not obliged to report to the customs administration but only to apply to the port captainship, but were also obliged after 6 months and take the boats out of the territorial waters of Croatia. So that is something that this year prompted the growth of income primarily from income tax and profit tax compared to last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42059	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42060	So here I believe that the government will help, with a smile, the increasingly frequent smile of hosts, the arrangement of places and beaches appears on the market especially in the coastal area, as many domestic products as possible. So any help to the manufacturers and to the placement of those products, I think it would be very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42061	Thank you. Dear representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42062	Thank you very much. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. On the basis of a survey by local entrepreneurs or those who wish to become World Bank, the country's rankings were published under the terms of business, etc. The entrepreneurial climate in which Croatia is located 118 of the 155 countries ranked. We've all been a little bit or more surprised. You, Mr. President, obviously a little bit more surprised. You have invested a sharp protest with the leadership of the World Bank which has responded immediately and very politely and reiterated what is thus in the notes on the ranking list, or that Croatia started some projects in the spring of this year that should improve our country's business conditions. Very correct. My question to you is: where is Croatia's ranking list of business conditions after your harsh protest to the World Bank?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42063	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42064	You obviously Madam Representatives think I shouldn't have protested against this kind of, uh, World Bank rating. I see you find it different. I think I should have protested. I think I protested on your behalf because, because that's the legacy and your government the previous one, and I don't think that's true. And that's why I protested. And I believe that, some others have objected to me as you have and told me why you show muscles even though it wasn't for one strong world institution, but allow it, regardless of what there are both large and small and medium-sized states and strong institutions, we all have the same pride and I will insist on it in Croatia's interest. I don't think that report is true. We received a letter from the World Bank Vice-President to correct it, and to know when the World Bank, not to remain in debt, when the World Bank will formally correct that place that is not exactly simple. And I don't accept it. You can tell me whatever you want. If you accept it in order. I cannot accept it because I believe that the conditions of business in Croatia are far better than in those countries that are ahead of us. He's being directed and directed, we're preparing these days and an official protest. Ministry of Finance will hold an official protest, and I expect the World Bank to respect this protest and rank Croatia more /Applause./ [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42065	Dear representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42066	Mr. President, you haven't answered my question again as usual, but that's why you gave yourself the right to suggest my views and unfortunately you suggested them completely wrong. I don't mind that you protested against the World Bank, but I have against that you didn't protest against your government and yourself because responsibility for the poor conditions of business no matter what methodology it was applied to everything, to all countries, and can probably be corrected in relation to anyone or at least on some country. So, the fact that it is difficult to operate in Croatia is irrefutable. In addition, it speaks in an unacceptablely low rate of growth which will be difficult to correct after such a rule... /The speech room has been disabled./... Finally, I wonder if it is not even 700 days enough for you to stop calling for the results of the former government and finally start to answer for your work and your actions. Work and protest less. Perhaps you should put an end to or amend the Law on the Prohibition of Protests for those who need it more than you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42067	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42068	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer my question to the President of the Croatian Government Dr. Ivo Sanader. First of all, one finding. Croatia is tired of lying, Croatia is tired of hypocrisy. And now a few facts. This year we celebrated the 10th anniversary of Flash and Storm, the two greatest battles in Croatian national history. No matter what happened after those battles happened on our side of the crime and that we all normal people condemned it. After that, the highway from Zagreb to Split opens up a Croatian national dream, connecting Croatia's north and south. All parliamentary parties and those not present at these events. I noticed there was no parliamentary SDSS there. I was so worried about that. At the same time last year, representatives of the SDSS go to Serbia and celebrate there some day of the uprising. Shame on Croatia's national history that Croats still do not know what happened there on July 26th and 27th 1941? In short, let me remind you. The pilgrims from the Bosnian Petrovic went to homage and celebrate the Saint Anna in Kijevo, in the, uh, Kosovo near Knin. When the Serb rebels came back tomorrow, they met them, threw everyone off the Catholic train. Take them to the Dove pit. There, they slaughtered them all and threw them into the pit at the head of their Reverend William Nestor. They also made it with Don, I can't find him here right now. And one more thing. This year, from that rally, one of the leaders of the SDSS tells us, saying in the context of the celebration of June 22nd and July 27th, I quote according to the newspaper's inscriptions: "We are not fighting to recognize this or that date of the uprising but to recognise the uprising. Did the uprising kill young people? He also said a five-point star should be returned to the Croatian flag. The five-point star is a symbol of freedom, but the red star of the five-pointed star is the symbol of the evil under which the Croatian people suffered the most in their national history." My question is the President of the Croatian Government, I ask you this as both a man and as an intellectual and as president of the strongest Croatian party and as Prime Minister. What's your comment on this hypocrisy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42069	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42070	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, my comment is as good as yours. These are unacceptable assessments and unacceptable statements. If someone is asking to change the day of the anti-fascist struggle that we know was established as June 22nd, if someone is asking to return the Day of Rebellion on July 27th even though they were committed, and we know that they are crimes, then it is absolutely unacceptable and I reject such statements. We are really proud of Croatian history. She was heavy, she was bloody. And right in World War II, we experienced all the tragedy of our history. I personally hold, it's good to warn about these statements, I take them as you said and quote the media, I'm not happy to argue on June 22nd, I'm not glad that someone is contesting "Blash" and "Storm" if they challenge, I'm not glad that someone isn't celebrating with us the opening of the Rijeka-Zagreb-Split highway because it's simply big national events. However, once again, I warn that we in Croatia are more committed to the future, to commit ourselves to what we must do to grow the standards of our people, to strengthen Croatia's international position, and that we are trying to end these topics somewhat that we do not stay, and I would like to say that crime, war crime and any other crime do not become obsolete. Therefore, we are aware of the difficult bloody Croatian history, but precisely because of the new generations, because of the Croatian future, we must not allow ourselves to be entangled constantly in historical topics but must turn to the future. And once again, I am not happy and I strongly reject these assessments that have been made in Serbia, but I also call for more mutual tolerances, but I also invite everyone to respect the truth and respect the facts of Croatian history. To respect everything that happened in the Homeland War. In the Homeland War Croatia was attacked, Croatia was the victim of a major Serbian aggression involving JNA, former JNA, Serbia, Montenegro and rebel Serbs in Croatia, and we know that and that is a historical fact. Croatia too had the legitimate right as any other country on the globe, to defend itself and to free the country and not only the right but also the duty under the Constitution. We did this, we are proud of it, we are proud of the Homeland War, we are posted on "Blash" and "Storm" and these are the foundations of the present Croatia and future Croatia. What happened after that, we're not proud of it, that's why we're sad and it's been processed. If something else isn't, it's being processed, because those misdemeanors that were made after the Storm could have been cast out unless we process them and shadow them on "Storm", but definitely "Storm" belongs to those you well called, the historical war victories of Croatia that we are proud of and which remains in the foundations of Croatia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42071	Thank you. Representative Ivo Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42072	Mr. President, I agree with you that we need a future because we are tired of the past. But you see how the past is called! To take advantage of this minute that according to the Rules of Procedure I have the right, is it not sad and hypocritical not to use harder words, the SDSS leadership also has two Dalmatians under whose literal house the highway passes, they did not even come to see what the highway looks like, how this Croatian state government with its people celebrates what we wanted for centuries. I am absolutely back in time, because we need a future, but as long as we don't solve the past, we're going to have this and we're going to have the summoning of evil, we're going to have a five-point star and we're going to have the summoning of everything that's followed us for nine centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42073	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42074	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of ministers and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. Since 1 January 2006, Croatians will be able to make significant funds from the SAPARD pre-accession programme more specific to the development of rural areas. However, it is known that the new members of the European Union have not fully exploited this fund while at the same time hearing the Ministry late in drawing up the programme and that end-users, project holders, could be left without the funds of this fund. Mr. Minister, what has really done specifically so far to implement this pre-accession programme, to introduce potential users to the programme, and what has made it possible to make the most of the funds and quality projects?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42075	Thank you. Minister Petar Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42076	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. Mr. Representative, thank you for your question. I think it should be made clear and loud that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, which is responsible for the management of the SAPARD pre-accession programme, is leading its activities adequately and in accordance with the action plan to prepare for the use of the European Commission pre-accession programmes. What have we done so far? In order for the SAPARD plan or programme to be available for use at all, it is necessary to do two basic things, which is to adopt a programme or to draw up a plan for agriculture and rural development and to implement, establish and accredit a paying agency or so on. The SAPARD Agency. Within the ministry, two administrations were responsible for the management of these activities for the plan for agriculture and rural development, carried out by the Directorate for Sustainable Rural Development, and the establishment of the SABAR Agency was led by the Directorate for Market and Structural Support. So far, I can say that a plan has been drawn up that is in line with everything I would say to social partners, economic social and environmental partners. That it is presented in several Croatian areas, that it is as the main measures in the plan to invest in agricultural economies, then improve the processing and marketing of agricultural and fish products, improve rural development and the fourth measure is technical assistance, information and promotional activities. The plan was submitted to the European Commission in July. Prior to that, his evaluation and evaluation of the ex... evaluation by consultants used by the European Commission were carried out. It was forwarded to the European Commission in July and is now in the European Commission for adoption. I must stress that we have received very good evaluations of this plan and expect somewhere at the 10th month that the plan will be fully accepted. As regards the establishment of the paying agency or the SAPARD agency, I must say that, in accordance with the programme, we have made a change in the internal structure of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, that we have amended the Internal Design Regulation, that we have employed employees who will work on the software programme, that we have provided an adequate space for the accommodation of the directorship and that we have provided a budgetary position for the implementation of the SAPARD. I would also like to stress that the process of drawing up flow diagrams, control lists and forms is now under way to complete the accreditation plan, which will result in national accreditation by the directorship at the end of 2005, and in the first quarter of 2006, we expect to get accreditation from the European Commission as well. Also, it is, I would say, a programme of presentations and a programme of promotional activities that I expect to start in the 10th month with promotional activities. And I would just like to point out that there is no concern that the ministry will not do everything to make this pre-accession programme available to our agricultural producers and to all those who are interested in it. Also,...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42077	Thank you, thank you very much, Minister. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42078	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, I am pleased with your response and I do not doubt the new measures you have introduced to the Ministry of Agriculture, but you are knocking on the door of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42079	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42080	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Dear Madam Vice President, according to your bill of law, and quite contrary to the academic principles of children of volunteers and wartime wartime peoples, direct enrolment is allowed this summer at high school without paying tuition. This, however, has led to total chaos. First, colleges lack both space and time and money and people for such an increased number of students that it went even to the point that the implementation of the first phase of the Bologna process was at stake. Secondly, you've divided that decision and your proposal into a defence population within it. Namely, children of war people with disabilities and children of volunteers who were enrolled last year, slaughtered, earlier years, so before your famous proposal are registered without the privilege of the championship and many of them are obliged to pay tuition. And the children of the disabled and the volunteers who were enrolled this year did so beyond the ranks and still do not have to pay tuition. Of course, dear Mrs. Kosor, you have the majority and you have the right to make decisions that you think are right no matter what I personally, what the expert public thinks of them. But with the final decisions, you are not only making the difference and discrimination between the children whose fathers were defenders and those who were not, but between the defenders themselves. So, I ask you, prompted by a number of questions from the defense attorney, what do you think you are going to do to correct the injustice that you have done to the children of the disabled and children of the volunteers who now have to pay for the study and what do you think you are going to do to equalize all children, or children of all the disabled and children of all volunteers?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42081	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42082	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Representative Lugarić, I am fully aware of your position, the negative view of enrolling the children of volunteers and all other children who according to the rules of the Law, or the provisions of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, have this opportunity to enrol in colleges. It is perfectly understandable to me because in 2001 you also raised hands which have significantly reduced the rights of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders. And of course, it caused, as you remember well, I believe, numerous protests by defense organizations. This has caused the entire population’s extreme dissatisfaction. However, what I want to warn you about. You're talking about the chaos I caused. Dear Madam MPs, I would like to inform you that the Law was passed by the Croatian Parliament, so the Law was not passed by the Vice-President of the Government, but was passed by the Croatian Parliament, MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The law has passed a regular procedure, has been read twice in the Croatian Parliament. Madam MPs, you did not make any remarks at the time, but as a club you did not dare to vote for the law, you avoided voting, because of course it was difficult to be against the law that supported all defense associations, it was difficult, but of course it was difficult for you to raise your hand for such a law. So, not a single comment from the university, from the university, all that time, and in the Law that came into force on January 1st this year, we discussed last year. In public, not a single remark, nor, therefore, am I speaking of that provision of course. Therefore, Madam Representative, I did not cause chaos, but was, nor was there chaos. Mr. Minister, everything, all the problems that have been tried, i.e. those who have been trying to impose, has been solved and, of course, in cooperation with me, in cooperation with the entire government. Therefore, yes, it is in our interest that all, that all children get an opportunity to study, that all children have the opportunity to attend colleges, end colleges, because 7% of highly educated people in Croatia today are actually the data that you should imagine as well as today the whole government and representatives of the Croatian Parliament are thinking about. So, in conclusion, I didn't cause chaos, and I didn't do anything beyond the line. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42083	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42084	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, if I'm as ignorant and forgetful as it comes from your answer, I'm surprised why you're nervous, if exactly what you said. Because if I remember correctly, you've restored your dignity to the Croatian defenders. But you didn't answer my question. I asked what you were going to do for those kids that were enrolled in the study last year, who were also disabled children, who were also children of volunteers, children who were normally enrolled and who are now paying for their studies, and their colleagues from the first year of their studies went past the schedule and did not pay for the study. And quite by the way, on that bill of law, I, along with two other colleagues from the SDP club, submitted an amendment, so I still think there's someone else who's forgotten. And I, Mr. President, ask that I be provided with a written answer to the question of how all children of volunteers and all children of all persons with disabilities are equalized, so those who are now studying without paying and who are enrolled in the order and children of those volunteers and those with disabilities who are now paying for the study.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42085	Okay, the written answer. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42086	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. President, I'm sure you'll agree when I say that tourists have greatly rewarded this summer, the beauty of our coast, the hospitality and service of hosts, the quality of Croatian highways. In one word, the number of tourists was so great that we had a huge opportunity. Of course, the second question is how much of this opportunity we took. Whether we were just a good market for foreign products or we could take advantage of that opportunity to become a good market for the development of the domestic economy. And instead of having imports conditioned by the consumption of tourism that ranged from 7 to 8 months at the rate of more than 30% compared to last year in favour of the domestic sector, we didn't do it. On the other hand, an unnecessary incident occurred during the end of the tourist season. I'll call it an incident. On Pag near Novalja for the first time in the history of the Croatian state, and they don't remember people domestically or in that country before, the port collapsed, the mall. Something that has a public character, something that represents a need and isn't anybody's property. It belongs to the people and to the state, while the municipality tells the City of Novalja that there are valid reasons for the spatial plan that will resuscitate the location for that purpose in the next days. It means there's a dock. So what are we going to do now, or change the plan or tear down the waterfront to build it tomorrow? So why couldn't we give someone a concession, to anyone to use that waterfront? No, we show our indifference to the man of the house, to our man who did not deserve it. So my question, Mr. President, is, what is your opinion on this and can we really behave differently and better both on opportunities in tourism and on ourselves?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42087	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42088	Mr. Representative, you asked two questions, so I'll answer it first. When it comes to the reviews of the tourist season, I agree with you, we will soon come out with the data. This is the best tourist season in Croatia's history and we can all be proud of it together in Croatia. Secondly, when it comes to how much we use this growth of tourism to boost domestic production and reduce imports, here are some data. Exports are in the first seven months, and it is therefore a debalancing of exports-imports, an external trade deficit that we are all aware of and which we want to correct. It's the same trend as last year. So this government succeeded for the first time in 14 years last year in changing the trend of imports and exports to Croatia. Last year, the trend in exports was much more intense, stronger and higher than imports. And this year that trend continues. Exports in the first seven months, if we shut down ships and shipbuilding, I'll come to this second question, turn off ships and shipbuilding by 12.2%, and imports at the same time 8.1%. That's a good trend. We'll keep going. That's what we talked about last year, and we're gonna keep that trend going. And I'm sure the trend of exports will always be stronger. He's still not, the export still doesn't cover, but somewhere around 50% of the imports. Our goal is to get to 100% and have an external trade surplus. When we do, we'll see, but we'll try to make it happen. And when it comes to this mall, I would answer the rhetorical question, and I think you'll agree with me. Well, I don't think we can let anyone in Croatia on the Adriatic coast, and you and I come from that coast, from Dalmatia. That we can't let anyone think of building a mall and charging private money for themselves. So it's not social property, you said, but it charges private for itself to enter and bond those boats that bond where he built the mall. So, can I understand that you stand up for everyone in Croatia on the coast where they have their plot to build a mall without question, without permission, illegally. I don't think that's what you're up for. I think you've asked more before why we're going to crash now that he's built it. And then the question arises, and the others are built, are we going to let everyone go when someone brings us to the final act and leave us like that? I'm sorry to see that great emotions have been caused by a church dignitary who reacted, but I personally believe that the issue here is simply the rule of law. If we allow everyone in Croatia to build malls on their plot that he wants not to ask a single competent state institution about it, then where are we going to come from? So, with all the understanding for these people's emotions, for accessing this friar I can't accept it. And the question is, are we just gonna let that happen or not? If we're going to allow it, believe me, what I was talking about in the first question and second question, which is to answer the question of the representatives that we're going to have a total devastation of the Adriatic coast. We want to preserve the Adriatic, we want to preserve the Adriatic coast. We speak with the right to have one of the most beautiful shores, one of the most beautiful countries and we have and we are proud of the beauty of Croatia, but then we must, it is our obligation and responsibility to preserve them. I repeat, I'm sorry again that the emotions rightly came, etc., but we have to say somewhere, gentlemen, you can't build a mall wherever you want and wherever it comes to mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42089	Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42090	Thank you very much. Morally, however, Mr. President, the import of groceries and food for consumption in tourism has indeed increased at a rate of 30%. I speak, I spoke exclusively for the needs of tourism. As far as this case on Pag is concerned, I'm not sure we'll do the right thing if we act the same way with this coast and all the other illegal objects. Because this farm is truly the property of the people and it can be concentrated just by the government's decision for any other user. It doesn't have to be on behalf of whoever built it. Because I am sure, Mr. President, that you and I feel the same way, and that is that we cannot allow Croatia's coast to be Croatian only because the Croatian will be a server on its own coast that may be owned by foreigners. That's why I asked this question because this question suggests behavior. Let us not allow what we forbid today to our man to be allowed tomorrow to anyone who is not from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42091	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42092	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister a question. It sounds paradoxical, but there is also this unfortunate road safety law that has a significant impact on gas consumption, as will the financial situation of citizens. If someone in this country were to suggest that every driver in this country is somewhere around 2 million, at the end of the year they get a free 1 tank of gasoline and it's full, and it won't cost the state anything, then I'm holding that everyone in their right mind should accept it. Diesel 95, here's the price. It's already 7.40. Eurosuper 7,98; Diesel 7.30; Super 98 8.30, Eurodizel Blue 4,48 and I would like to stress that these are prices on INA pumps. They're more expensive elsewhere. Now, believe it or not, Mr. MPs, the provision of mandatory light-enhancing day-on-day increases fuel consumption by 3 to 5%, at least 3 to 5%. Or on 20 tanks per year, so much spends the average driver in the Republic of Croatia, 1 tank is the price of the provision of mandatory bright daylight because 90% of people drive clearly during the day. Otherwise, 53,000 195 drivers were caught driving without light in the first seven months of this year, and I'm guessing the State budget paid over 15 million kuna. It's one unnecessary... But in addition, every driver on those lights spends between 300 and 500 kuna a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the question would be whether the government will save citizens one tank of gasoline by changing the provisions on the obligation to drive with lights on during the day. And if we were to correct that provision later on with the INA profits, and the excise duties, maybe our price of gasoline could have been the way it was six months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42093	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42094	Mr. Representative, I don't remember how you voted when we introduced this provision on daylight, but I know that you personally, and that's very good for me, are taking up a stand for the accession of Croatia to the European Union, and for the adoption of European standards. Well, that's one of the European standards, and that's one of those gains that Europe has on its own, based on experience, based on the fact that it wanted to strengthen the security of the Union's transport, in legislation, and we have estimated that we should not invent hot water but we have taken these statistics from the European Union where it was very clearly stated that and how many traffic accidents before the introduction of the obligation of daylight and how much it was afterwards. Therefore, I believe this is a good decision and that it is a good provision of law. I still hold that it should be in our minds, so in any thought of your proposal, that we should put an end to it so that statistics should be seen before. If this has been introduced by the leading European countries, Croatia has also introduced legislation. We think that these are gains, that we don't need to invent hot water, and if there is anything, any provision that we can make to save people's lives, because human life has the highest price, has an invaluable value, then I think that's what we should do. I personally believe there is no reason to lift the provisions on daylight.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42095	Thank you. Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42096	Of course, I voted against that law, and the practice of these day-to-day lights is divided in Europe, and finally this road traffic safety law did not lead to any fewer deaths, but to enormous damage, primarily winemakers and wine industry, to the caterers. In 2004, 607 deaths were recorded, much less than in 2003, the truth. But from 331 people killed by the end of July of this year, those who had 0 to 0.5 promil, are guilty of 6 deaths or 1.8%. Keeping in mind that we have full basements, but these lights are burdening Mr. President's budget. And now imagine saying from tomorrow the price of gasoline is cheaper 5% or 40 lipes, so that would be sensational but we spend these 40 lips per litre of gasoline without need and I don't see what light in your Split, in my Buzet or in Vukovar at 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 months. I'm talking clearly about the day, not the night. And it needs to be lifted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42097	Light and dark. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42098	Dear President of the Parliament, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, when you signed a memorandum with the IMF, you made a significant reduction in the rights of compulsory health insurance. Following this and the parliamentary majority's will, the Health Insurance Act has recently been amended and new financial obligations for healthcare users have been introduced. This will happen when the Law enters into force on 1 October, patients will be affected by the most significant ones who have to attend different treatments several times a week and will not be entitled to compensation for transport costs. I'm going to show you this for example from Međimurje County where parents sort of organized themselves, so they're taking a couple of 10 parents like that two to three times to different treatments at the Varazdin spa. The transport costs are almost 2 thousand kunas to them, and that's usually some pay in our county. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Health Insurance Act will not have the right to compensation for transport costs, and some will be subject to further treatment. There must be far more of such cases in Croatia, so I ask you, will you make an exception for this category of patients, or will you adequately amend the existing Health Insurance Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42099	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42100	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Representative, we know what you've presented, we collect data, and when we gather all the data, we're thinking about it, and we'll see what we can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42101	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42102	I would just ask to speed up this process, because it's only a few days away from applying this law, and it's certainly a huge burden for a large number of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42103	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42104	Mr. President, I'm asking the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance. Many times, although in informal talks, we discussed redistribution and a new model of profit tax, namely, we all know that Croatia has highly centralised the state, mainly as regards fiscal incomes, and that unfortunately only a few percent of the total fiscal income is returned to local self-government units and most of all to the city of Zagreb because I would say a completely absurd law under which the tax on profit is paid in the place of the company. So, let's say you have a situation today that INA, which is operating in Rijeka and Sisak and Kutina and other cities, pays taxes on profits exclusively in Zagreb, let's say the HEP also pays taxes on profits exclusively in Zagreb, let's say Croatia's security that generates good income in other cities, regions, pays taxes on profits exclusively Zagreb, other companies not to mention everything now, whether they are state-owned or private, so it is my question whether, when and whether a different model of profit tax can be established by the next budget, a team that convinces me of my colleagues, sometimes every company has been particularly bookkeeping in each of its own offices, or any organisational unit, so it is possible to find a model that the tax on profits will be paid where profits are achieved, so not only in Croatia's headquarters of the company. This would, in some ways, disbursement the state budget and... Mr. Prime Minister, because it would still give more fiscal opportunities and in some ways fill local budgets, not only the city of Zagreb that you see announced by some megalomanic projects, because it has very high incomes from profit tax, while most other units of local self-government very little profit tax. And I think... that would lead to a more balanced development of all Croatian cities and parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42105	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go. That's Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42106	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, so this topic is settled by the Law on Profit Tax, and among other things in the Tax on Profit in Article 1(2), it is defined that a special law will define how a tax on profit is paid and distributed. This is regulated by the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units, I think this is Article 45(5), where cities and municipalities are said to belong to 20% of the tax on profits, 10% belongs to the county, and 70% of the profit tax belongs to the state budget. There is something different about the City of Zagreb because the City of Zagreb has the status of county and city according to which the City of Zagreb belongs 30% of the profit tax and 70% belongs to the state. When we look at the total amount of income tax is paid to the budget of the City of Zagreb as many other units of local self-government, then you are absolutely right because somewhere around 71, 72% of the total profit tax belonging to local self-government units is paid into the budget of the City of Zagreb, and around 28, 29% of the other units of local self-government. But there's a problem here now. The law on accounting and the Tax on Profit has defined how and in what way the basis for the calculation of profit tax and the Law on Commercial Companies defines the organisational form of individual companies. So here we have to be careful, I fully agree with you that because of the concentration of Zagreb-based economy, we should think about this problem and we at the Ministry of Finance will form a working group together with a community of cities and municipalities that would try to solve this problem. However, there is one thing we must look out for, not to go into bureaucratizing and administratively burdening entrepreneurs, because if we must first of all define how we would get to the amount of profit tax belonging to a particular unit of local self-government in which it is realized. And another thing, in order for that profit to be made in the area of that unit of local self-government to be shared between these units and the county. For example, take one business unit in Varazdin probably performs certain either Croatian insurance or HT and... carry out certain activities for the citizens of the surrounding municipalities and all together. [[I don't understand the speaker.]] So, then a problem would arise that this profit would be paid towards the business unit in Varazdin to divide between the Varazdin County and the local self-government units that are around. So this is a series of administrative problems that can arise because we are based on existing laws, accounting laws, profit tax laws and the Company Act cannot order companies to run their business books based on some basic units, etc. So, we in the government are in principle part of a policy of decentralisation that the profit achieved in the area of a particular unit of local self-government is, in a certain way, the income of that budget, but we need to find a model not to make life worse for entrepreneurs. Here, this morning we talked about having an entrepreneurship climate and all that expensive if we passed a law that administratively accumulated business, then we would actually do more damage than good. Or we could have a case that, in a global unit of local self-government, actually, the company is doing a positive business, there's a profit, and at the same time in the area of a local self-government unit, that the business unit is making a loss, as set out in that situation. So one topic that is certainly commendable and should be considered when we talk about decentralisation of both income and income, and on the other hand, we need to find a solution to how we do not administratively burden companies. And for the next ten days, I'm going to propose to a committee that will be representatives of the community of cities and municipalities, and I suggest you give some representative of yours and try to find some solution that would be satisfactory first and foremost for local self-government units that in this way don't make part of the profit tax that they think would belong to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42107	Thank you. Agent Ivan Chehok, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42108	I'm happy with the answer. I also suggested something similar to that of the former government and the former council. I know it's administrative and financial accounting hard to implement, but I think it's our job not to pass laws and not to enforce laws, so we do them while they're in force but not to support them who are actually absurd. Today, it is truly absurd that Zagrebačka banka, for example, earns profits throughout Croatia only pays taxes on the profits of Zagreb. Why? Therefore, we must find a way not to burden entrepreneurs but certainly an accounting calculation in which this profit tax will be distributed. Well, maybe by the headlines or maybe by some other way, maybe by the number of employees in individual units, but certainly any different model will be fairer than this existing one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42109	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42110	He's asking Prime Minister Sanader the question. Mr. Prime Minister, we have witnessed the last eight months of galloping gas prices. Only then, for the first eight months, the euro was super-accumulated by 18%, the euro was 22.5%. School children's carriers appeared at the beginning of the new school year with demands for an increase in transport prices. My question is whether the government will order the Ministry of Education to increase decentralised funds for the transport of children or because some carriers have already announced the cancellation of the contract at existing prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42111	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42112	Madam MPs, first of all, it should be said that Croatia has managed to maintain, thanks to the government's policy and of course to economic management policy, the management policy of the INA in much less intensity to maintain the rise in oil and oil prices than is the case in other countries. In other countries that are related to the Mediterranean market and with which prices should be compared, they grew three times faster than in Croatia, that is, the fact. Thank God there is a relaxation of prices on the world market and prices have started to fall and in this sense we expect if this trend continues soon to react to INA and reduce the price of gasoline.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42113	Thank you. Representative Milanka Opačić, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42114	I'm absolutely dissatisfied with the answer because you didn't answer me. I asked you what would happen to the transport of children or maybe it could be cynical and say that I am satisfied with the answer because you told the citizens of this country that you wouldn't do anything to help the children. And I'd just like to tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, that it's unfortunate that you're working first and second-class citizens. In this country you have assured one that you can enroll in studies without payment and directly and on the other hand you have a poor woman who is already not going to high school in many Slavic places because I cannot pay for a ticket and a ride to school. So their study is something they'll never expect because they can't even finish high school because they don't have the means to pay for a ride to school.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42115	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42116	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. In April, the TLM Supervisory Board concludes on the sale of the property of the organisational unit... Transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The administration shall, in May of this year, carry out the bidding process. Neither the Supervisory Board nor the TLM Administration finds it appropriate to inform the local county organisation of the Chamber of Commerce or entrepreneurs who until then were dependent on cooperation with TLM in transport services that the sale of assets would mean the sale of a business. After that, non-transparent implementation of the asset sale process, non-compliance with the law which was in force at the time of the Law on Public Procurement of TLMs and a contract on business-technical cooperation. The entrepreneurs of Dalmatia seek their justice in the streets. The Government of the Republic of Croatia then to solve the problem of Dalmatian entrepreneurs is ordering the Supervisory Board to break the contract and especially the business-technical cooperation agreement with me to say to those who won the competition... vector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And yet again, this move plays the entrepreneur for the reason that the entrepreneur suffers certain damages because of the conduct of the process of decomposing of the contract. Mr. President, I ask if you can really expect Croatian entrepreneurs from Croatia to give a positive assessment of the conditions of economic business for reasons of being played by administrations in the commercial societies of the majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia, the administration and the Croatian Government. And what are you going to do to amend the Public Procurement Act that will make it even more possible for these administrations to behave illegally?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42117	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42118	Mr. Linic, I am pleased that you have asked this question because it is one question, one subject that has been mentioned in Croatia these days, and that is interested in all of us. I am pleased to have once again an opportunity in front of the Croatian public in this Croatian Chamber of Higher House to say what is the state of things because we have had enough of the deceptions that have been heard these days. Well, here's the thing. Now you've fooled the public when you said the government gave the order to the Supervisory Board. No, that's not true. That's not true. And I can't accept such grades. This is about the government having nothing to do with everything that's been going on in TLM. And I won't accept the fact or the trend to negatively accuse the government of everything that happens. That's just not true. There's an autonomous decision by the TLM that the government has nothing to do with. Now there's a second question. How do we figure that out, and I ask that it be taken into account that the government has nothing to do with it, how do we solve the problem that has arisen? I am absolutely in favour of all competitions in Croatia, regardless of being conducted by state institutions or private companies, being transparent and giving jobs transparently on the principle of best offers. If that was the case in TLM, then it should remain that way. We know the transporters have rebelled. I now speak as one who observes on the side and as prime minister who doesn't care what happens in TLM. The transporters rebelled, but the workers also rebelled. Carriers rebelled against the job and giving jobs to the highest bidder, and workers rebelled against carriers who blocked the entrance to TLM and cannot, and did not let workers work and thus earn their salary. What we have done, which is that the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy have now become involved in the final phase and we are trying to contribute to a solution that is best for Croatia. Surely it is not good and here I agree with you and I think that everyone in, together in Croatia, must make it possible for us to strengthen legal certainty. It's not a good signal to foreign investors or foreign companies or domestic investors. There must be legal certainty and there must be a principle of the Sun Servanda Pact. Therefore, since there has been a re-protest on the streets which certainly is not good to do, and on the other hand we know that the workers were against these protests, it could have been that there was no wisdom and wisdom and some of the MPs who were down there, who had been active by Vukic and the others, there could have been a conflict between workers and carriers, which would have certainly been one, one ridiculous scene, but in any case, what we will insist on is that the rule of law is respected, that legal certainty and the legal certainty of investors be strengthened and that all tenders are transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42119	Thank you. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42120	Mr. President, thank you for your response and perhaps suggestions. It is evident that there are failures in the work of the Supervisory Board and the administration and it is the work of the Government that must be resolved and in such a way you will most help entrepreneurs not to give a negative assessment which is then real because it was given by entrepreneurs who work and live, I would say from my capital. And what I also want to say very clearly, speaking about the government's obligation to resolve very clearly and transparently who is responsible for such failures, then I think tomorrow we do not have to fear for new evaluations of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. Until there's a clear, transparent message from the government who's guilty, we're not gonna make it. But also a message, think like the Government of Public Procurement Act. Because the new law that has been passed will make even more possible the immoral behavior of people who are not government but the burden of their decisions falls on the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42121	Thank you. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42122	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome Mr. President of the Croatian Government, present ministers and ministers. I'd like to refer my question to Mr. Home Secretary, Mr. Kirin. We are witnessing a few days ago at the stadium in Malta when the Croatian team played. And then I talked to many representatives of the fans' associations, and they're all just as bitter about the behavior of individuals. And they're particularly bitter about the behavior of some media where they're classified as fans. I categorically claim to be talking to them that they are not fans, but that they are individuals who use fans to show their own, let's say some weird behavior. So my question is, what do you intend to do to stop it, prevent how much it's possible for those bad guys not to enter the stadium? I think once they get into the stadium, it's too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42123	Home Secretary, Hansel Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42124	I am pleased to see that you have asked this question because this is a question that I will try to answer from two points of view. First, as an ordinary citizen and second as a minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is inadmissible, here from the position of an ordinary citizen that we cannot go to any sports event today to bring our children, our family and enjoy sports together, which is why sport actually exists. And we don't have to be afraid in sports court and before and after the sports game that one of our loved ones will get killed in the wilds of some hooligans hiding under the name fans. As Minister of Government, I also cannot allow my insurance officers to play the statutes in a way that anyone who remembers spits, attacks, insults, and does nothing on their own. I don't want to live in a country like this where a bunch of hooligans are going to be harassing other citizens. And that is why you have witnessed in the last two months that the Croatian police have taken action especially in preventing domestic competitions. Unfortunately, something happened that caused great damage to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, which was the meeting of Croatia-Malta, where the police directorate warned the Maltese police who otherwise did not get used to such incidents that there are potential in-house alcohol-consuming wrongdoers who are prone to incidents. Our warning didn't come out, and the worst thing happened. This has offered us, the Ministry of the Interior, to propose an amendment to the Law on, supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions. Because why? In the existing law, penalties for such penalties are too low. On the other hand, we have no way to prevent them from coming more to sports competitions or going abroad to other sports games or competitions. That is why the Croatian police will also use all existing legal powers in the next period, severely sanction and prevent the least of the incidents. I'd like to say in public here in front of this distinguished home that you need to take your name off the fans' word. It's not about fans. I want to tell you that Bad Blue Boys fans' associations, Torcide, Cohorts, all those who follow big clubs invest a lot of effort and energy to help their clubs. These are real fans who organize sports events, socializing and so on. But unfortunately, a part of the people who don't think well of this country or our people got involved in their ranks. It is unacceptable to come to games and to be constantly recorded are the same perpetrators who participate in the worst possible riots and crackdowns. But there's one question that needs to be asked first. That not only the police and the law can participate in this prevention process but all of them must participate. It's just that we have a situation in the field where people pour mass alcohol before the game. That's what they make out of it. There's a mess behind that, they're breaking up his place, and it's the police's fault. I think in this part of it, as far as preventing riots at sports games are concerned, we're going to do everything in front of this respected home to pass legal regulations that will primarily protect people who participate in competitions from those who don't belong there. We will do everything in front of this respected House to pass legal regulations that will primarily protect people who participate in competitions from those who do not belong there. And I'm going to be busy putting the strictest criteria to those because that's what's ruining our country's reputation. Here's if you remember after what happened with Malta, where Croatia was also one of the countries that was supposed to be in the bid for individual and European competitions. It is not only about legal procedures and prevention, it is also about the education that police through relevant institutions will launch activities to warn children in schools of opportunities that will have legal consequences for such behaviour. So young people only know one thing. If they're recorded by the police in such a way because of the kind of mess he's having at that moment...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42125	Thank you very much, Minister. Representative Franjo Arabović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42126	Before I thank the minister, I would like to say that on Friday you will have me thinking full hands of work, because a large number of fans are about to go to Belgrade. Since we entered the eight in the basketball championship of Europe, I personally congratulate the Croatian national team, so I am pleased with your answer and I will ask that we take action from the words in the morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42127	Thank you. Honorable representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42128	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I ask Mr. Branko Vukelic, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. One of the largest companies in textile production in Slavonia is the "Orlja" company with limited liability of Požega, which has great economic and social importance in the future employs 500 women. During 2004, the company had significant investments aimed at improving production and winning new both foreign and foreign markets. It is a large exporter and is a positive business, and the successful business of the company allows all employees to receive salaries in order and in time with taxes and contributions paid. In July of this year, "Orlja" Požega applied for a competition from the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship for the grant of financial resources intended for the development of its own production, processing and conquest of new markets, the adoption of new technologies and education and staff. In its application, the company contributed all requested contributions and evidence. I therefore ask: Because of the "Early" society with limited liability of Požega, it meets all the required conditions of the competition and has a very high economic and social significance in Slavonia, when will the distribution of these funds occur and whether the funds requested for the said society have been approved so that "Orljaga" Požega can already come to the realization of these investments in this business year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42129	Thank you. Minister of Economy Branko Vukelic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42130	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honors, Mrs. Byte, thank you for this matter. It's especially important for two reasons. You mentioned the company "Olija" which is indeed one of the biggest companies in Slavonia when it comes to textile industry, but what is particularly important, and not only is that of the company for the region, but it is especially important that it is one of the biggest companies in Croatia, and there are still thanks to God in Croatia, shows that in the textile industry today, in the difficult conditions that are on the market to do business and to do business with one developmental dimension, so the expansion and production of new products, the replacement of jobs, so the business of processing with its products shows that the Croatian government is absolutely right when it has adopted a three-year programme of support for the textiles and leather industry in Croatia, unlike what was in the past when the support from the former government was missing and when it was thought in Croatia that it was actually no way for the textiles, that it was actually because of the cheap labour force from the east of China, etc. In fact, we need to forget a little bit that we're going to have these 30,000 employees as much as they are now in the textiles and the leather industry. That's not true, that's what the Eagles show, other companies show, and that's why the government adopted the three-year programme. This year, 20 million kunas of grants are scheduled for distribution and this is the competition you mentioned, which was reported by 162 companies in Croatia. The commission made up of professional people, but also representatives of trade unions and employers, the Chamber of Commerce, is now in business to establish by the criteria who will have all the rights. I can't say here today that the Eagle will get the funding, it will determine the commission, but it truly meets the criteria set out in that competition. The funds will only be shared in the area of raising the competitiveness of these companies, i.e. investment in new technologies, human education, investment in market testing and processing. So what is more, I would say, I would give a stronger starting base and a stronger momentum for better market performance on both the Croatian and other countries' markets, because "Olija" as well as many companies in the textile industry place their products on other markets and these very demanding markets such as the European Union markets. So for textiles both this year and next year there will be support and I believe that this industry can prove to be a particularly important labour intensive industry in Croatia at this level at which it is now, perhaps having one development dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42131	Thank you. Honorable representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42132	I am pleased with the answer and I thank you and ask that the distribution of funds be speeded up, and I have no doubt that the Eagles will also find their place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42133	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has answered 20 parliamentary questions, we still have 18. I'm setting a break. Continuing at 12.00 hours. First in line, the Honorable Representative of the Crown of Peronja. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the government, we continue with parliamentary issues. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42135	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government and Mr. Ministers, I ask Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeti. On the incentive of Hvar and local self-government units, I'm setting up and asking for the following. Presentation of the operational plan for the implementation of the State Road Recovery Programme for the period 2005 to 2008, provided for in Table 16, under regular number 32, 916, Jelsa - Poljica, public road construction and reflection programme for 2005-2008. This is all because this road, the state road is one of the few not restored on Croatian islands. Which increases the number of transport vehicles on that part of the state road, on the island of Hvar from year to year, and which is necessarily necessary to work within the island's quality integration of numerous new olive plantations, levanda, as well as for the development of the economy. The number of vehicles will be further increased when the road is completed to Ploca and the Rabca tunnel is built, it is foreseen a tunnel in the state strategy. It would therefore be very important for us to know the presentation of the operational plan as soon as possible to hire other Hvarans to implement this programme as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42136	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42137	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, we know this problem and this road is included in the 2005 programme of rehabilitation of state roads. — 2008. What is now under way is that one tender for the production of project documentation is called, that offers are open, it seems to me 15.9., goes from the selected bidder. So this year and next year will be the project of documentation, and the realisation itself and the project of the Jelsa road - Poljica would be in 2007 and would be finished in 2008. It's now according to the current plan that we're sticking to. Whether it's something sooner or not, it's hard for me to tell right now. Either way, it's in the program, it's working on it, and it's going to be realised as planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42138	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government. I'm giving my question to Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, do you support the gentleman in your cabinet, the Minister of Economy, Mr. Vukelic, who, after the local elections, has not received most of the voter's will, and to ensure that he is persuaded by 70-year-old Franjo Capan of HSU to go with him, i.e. Vukelic, as president of the Karlovac HDZ, signed an agreement on the co-operation of the two parties. That is what they called it, although Capan did not have the authority to do so, and Vukelić knew it well, and which contract was signed on 27 July 2005 and which it literally stands in, HDZ is obliged to provide a minimum of 20 thousand kuna per month for the functioning of HSU, of course from the city register, although HSU according to election success is only 2,000 kuna. Well, well, not just, of course, monthly, right, so not only have voters been cheated, but it seems to be their money.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42140	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42141	Madam MPs, I don't know, I'm not quite familiar with the details you say, but I am familiar with one practice that is absolutely legitimate and that is happening in Croatia, which is that from the budget of the local self-government units is funded by all political parties and I don't see any problems in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42142	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42143	Right, but by election results, they'd get 2 grand, not 20 grand. It is sad to see Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, you who have announced the fight against corruption. This is pure political corruption. Even if Minister Vukelic were to deal intensively and extensively with the Croatian economy, which is also his job, and not with the bagging and trade of city councilors, then surely you wouldn't be forced to write there some objections to some experts from the World Bank who, as you say, are unfairly Croatia being put into 118 places, far from both Albania and Afghanistan, even further than Serbia, even further from Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42144	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42145	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42146	Peace, please. Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42147	If I may continue? My question is to the Prime Minister, Dr. Eve Sanader. The question is about trying, we are all involved in them, we are all interested in them in a meaningful way to encourage life in areas of special state concern. Namely, in the process of rebuilding the returnees are restored houses or being restored faster, slower paces, more quality, less quality, with or without remarks, but it happens anyway. However, restored homes do not mean that they can live in these parts. If you've crossed the carlovia county, those areas that were under occupation, it's still a terriblely empty area, unprocessed fields, healed in chicare and so on. Significant economic operators in these areas are rare birds and people have mostly dealt with agriculture before, so it is expected that they would like to continue farming. But in the war they remained not only without homes, but also without agricultural machines, without the possibility of organising modern agricultural production. We did one survey in the carlovakia county and came up with a number of several hundred households that were so damaged, because they can't actually start living normally. It's clear to me that the state can't buy them tractors and agricultural machines, that's what no one's asking for. However, my question is whether you intend to, in what way and when to enable agricultural households from these parts in areas of special national concern, especially those who have suffered in the war to get into agricultural machinery in a cheaper and easier way that could organize modern agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42148	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42149	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, since you've announced the question to me, so I've prepared some information that you're probably familiar with, but they may not be familiar with the general public, so I'm going to tell them here. From the Regional Development Fund, we provide grants, so that can be run, joint loaned and built on municipal infrastructure. As a prerequisite for development, further development of these units of local self-government. From the Development and Employment Fund, we help entrepreneurs through subsidized interest and guarantee and should be found in this. Thus, the state also gave up its share in income tax, which is about a billion kuna in the past year, or this year. These are all major aid exactly areas of special state concern. And I'm going to tell the City of Vukovar Act, which should be mentioned here in this context, that we are returning to entrepreneurs the paid contributions for new employees, which in this year amounts to 26 million kuna. With all that, then, with everything that exists in agriculture and in other restaurants, it is certain that these segments are extremely important and that everyone can probably find themselves in this. From, meaning, the Development and Employment Fund to the Regional Development Fund. There are a number of measures where this could be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42150	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42151	Thanks for the answer. I'd like to get it in writing, too. I would just like to point out that the level of misery in these parts is incomprehensible from Mark's square and that new and better mechanisms should be found to allow these people to survive there. So those houses don't be cottages like they are now, that this neighborhood flourishes and that someone lives there until a few million Chinese come to live there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42152	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42153	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Damir Polancec, and it's about privatising "Sladorana". Here, second time I am already asking a parliamentary question regarding the privatisation of "Sladorana" for the reason that "Sladorana" is really of great importance for the County, the county end and also for the County of Vukovar and Srijem. The factory since it was founded in 1947 has been the basis for the development of the region and for the safety of its employees, and not few. It's around 330 today, 350. There are seasonal workers, about 150 of them, and all these families and these seasonal ones are able to cope more easily for one year. There are co-operatives, about a thousand of them. We are aware, here, that there have already been two privatisation bids for "Sladoran" that have been annulled and the union and the entire population is upset and in fact the privatisation is expected with one anxiety and a coldness for the reason that in the last privatisation of only 3 years, a dubiosis of 437 million kuna was created which eventually returned as we say, the taxpayers, but one part has been reprogrammed and today it pays off "Sladoran" and functions neatly. So he pays off his debts and settles all his obligations. New amendments to the Privatisation Act are announced. It is also mentioned that a clearer definition of the ESOP working stock and participation will mean workers and management in the privatisation itself. So here's my question: will the privatisation of "Sladoran" be delayed until the amendment of the Privatisation Act is passed?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42154	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42155	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Parliamentarian. I thank you for this question and before I answer it, let me just take a few words to refer to the privatisation process. The privatisation process simply has no alternative and regardless of our experience in the last decade, we must continue with it. We do not implement privatisation to finance the budget deficit, this is not the basic purpose and reason for the privatisation process. The main reason, the main objective of privatisation, is to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and thus improve the standard of living for our citizens. I am aware that the existing legal framework defined by the Privatisation Act may not be the best, and that is precisely why the Government has reached such a conclusion and launched the process of change, i.e. amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act. There are a whole series of privatisation models that are in one way or another in the last decade, perhaps present there and there in Croatia, which are not adequately covered by a legal solution. I'll just mention some of those models. ESOP or so, the full name is actually those abbreviations "employee share of properties" or how we translate it into "workstocking". Then "mengement buyout", "mengement employee buyout" are just some models that we definitely need to install into new legal solutions. Public-private partnership is also a model that calls for more attention, but also on the other hand and gets public support and we are in the process of making and a new law, that is, the Law on Public-private Partnership. Very soon before this distinguished House, therefore, first before the Government, we will have a working group before the government, and then also before Parliament with new legal solutions and I believe and expect a constructive debate and support from all of you. When we talk about "Sladoran" County, let me also say in two sentences, there is no "Sladoran" Parish affair. We simply went to the cancellation of the last tender because colleagues of the Privatisation Fund opened a tender that had been held in two segments, in the text of the competition differences in relation to the government's decision. It's a procedural mistake and that's why the contest was canceled. But once again, there's no affair, and we haven't stopped the privatisation process of "Sladoran" County. Workers organised through the union and through the working council addressed colleagues at the Privatisation Fund with the desire to be allowed and allowed to present the model they consider best. And I can tell you here and there that they will get such an opportunity. They will therefore present their vision of the best model and for them the most acceptable model of privatization "Sladorana". We will not be in a hurry with privatisation, there is no need to rush at this time because, among other things, the campaign is under way, so we have plenty of time to adequately prepare and privatise "Sladrana" in a way that the state, but above all, employees and the whole region benefit from that privatisation in the future. So we won't be in a hurry and we'll respect the views and opinions of the Employment Council and the union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42156	Thank you. Representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm extremely pleased, extremely pleased with your response that he won't be in a hurry to privatise. We are as well as about these amendments and additions to the Law, we are aware and I think they are aware of both the workers and the union that privatisation should go, not only is it a question of the model to agree which will provide, meaning, the development of the factory and the safety of jobs. When I participated both in meetings and recently together with the mayor and the mayor and the Ministry of Agriculture, I think workers are now aware that the previous proposed model is not feasible and that they will participate in privatisation in one of those, I think, shares to ensure their security in the management and control of the factory. And I think it's a really good way to reach one agreement and that I also say that there is no affair and that everything can be solved really to the satisfaction of all of us. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42158	Dear Representative Joseph Judge, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42159	I'm referring the question to the Vice President, Mr Polancec. Retired Associations, the Croatian Party of Retired and Government have agreed on a working group to discuss issues related to the pension system and its functioning. Especially after the application of the new Pension Insurance Act, some of these issues are particularly relevant. These are the issues of new pensioners, the issues of pensioners who have acquired their pension in other republics, and until pensioners who reach their pension under special regulations. The question of when we can expect the start of this task force, given that it was formed this spring, has not yet met until today, or maybe the apple has stopped biting into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42160	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42161	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much for your esteemed and esteemed representative, Judge. Well, she didn't break an apple and she doesn't have a sour apple that this government wouldn't dare bite, and there's no big problem that we couldn't solve together, which I'm completely convinced of. No one believed and we know for ourselves that the polls showed only a year back 91% of the pensioners in the polls pleaded with the skepticism or convinced that there would never be any compensation for the pensioners and you see where we are today, today we definitely found and agreed the model of the debt return or the compensation of the pensioners, we defined the Law and we established the pension fund, we defined the fund statute and we all do everything to get to the compensation within all those deadlines that we all set together. When we solved this problem, I don't see a single problem standing in front of this government, in front of a retirement party, and in retirement associations, which I don't think we could solve together. It is not the time that has been lost behind us, because after you have delivered all your proposals and demands from our group, our part of the working group has worked intensively on it, you know that the proposals you sent have had a significant impact and consequences on both the state budget and the existing legal frameworks, so the Croatian Pension Insurance Office under the coordination of the Ministry of Economy worked on simulations and various scenarios. They're done, they're presented to me at the beginning of this week, and we're definitely ready to start a real constructive I'm not going to say the negotiations because it's the wrong word but the conversation and the consensus of attitudes. I think a call was sent during yesterday and we expect the first meeting Monday afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42162	The Honorable Representative Joseph the Judge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42163	I thank you for your recent encounter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42164	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42165	Thank you very much, Mr. President, that there is no obligation to announce in advance who the question is, I would probably now ask Minister Kirina why the police are listing citizens on Mark's newspaper-reading market, but I have announced the question to Minister Vukelic, so I have to do so. Namely, my question is this: who in the body of the state authority is overseeing the application of a collective contract on the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, whether or not there are data on the number of workers who receive wages below the lowest and how many applications are filed against those who do not respect that provision of a collective contract based on Article 114. The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. In 1998, the Minister of Labour and Social Care, together with other social partners, signed a collective contract on the minimum wage amounting to or at the time agreed to make it equal to the lowest basis for calculating contributions to pension and health insurance in this year amounted to EUR 2080 75 in June. Since supervision of the respect of collective agreements or of this individual collective agreement is one of being tariff autonomy, supervision and vigilance on labour rights and as they are respected, I want to believe that there is a state institution, body, service and agency that oversees the signing of that collective contract and which has certain data. So I kindly ask you to answer me whether there is any surveillance on who receives such salaries and how many are filed under Article 114 of the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42166	Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42167	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. As you stated, the minimum wage is not determined by the Labour Act but by the collective contract and the basis you mentioned it is precisely for this year the exact amount that you said 2080, 75 kuna for full-time work. What is important here to point out and say, perhaps the public does not know that employees and workers, that the legal obligation of the employer, when paying the worker's salary, is to deliver the bill from which the amount of pay is visible. So the worker himself can thus control and see the amount in which his reckoning is. Also here, I would like to mention one more thing that is very important that the employer is obliged to hand over one copy of the application for compulsory pension and health insurance within 15 days of entry into work, to work. These are the basic rights that a worker has which are very important because it can therefore determine what is going on from this working relationship, and whether, therefore, it is exercising the rights which are laid down by law or collective agreement. Also another important information is the obligation of the employer to the worker, that is, unless the salary is paid in the current month, for that month, that by the end of the month the employer must give to the worker, hand over the bill of the amount he was required to pay and did not pay it. The worker may contact the employer for violation of his rights by an inspecting work that controls everything we've talked about. We can also say that a worker may not exercise his rights to initiate a misdemeanour procedure with the competent court, it is also true that, since the behaviour of an employer who does not pay a worker’s salary may therefore have the mark of a criminal offence within the group of criminal offences of the right to work and other rights under Article 114. Penalty law, like you said. So, the rights of the workers in this case are clearly indicated by the inspection of the work that the worker can address, I think it is also important here that the role of the social partner is therefore, in some ways, those who need it, the fundamental role of protecting workers' rights, and as far as the exact number of applications and procedures are concerned, I can't give it to you at this point to collect from the competent inspection and send them to you in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42168	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42169	Thank you very much I really expect in writing this information that I asked you to do, but only two data. Namely, one of the state agencies and this is FINA following the so-called The distribution of salaries, and since their information should be paid, not free of charge, you have to be a subscriber, I have managed to get to the data they published in May this year the data that in April there were 43,000 181 payouts up to 2000 kuna gross, it is below the minimum wage guaranteed by collective agreement. I can't claim that this is a full-time data matter, because they don't follow it but neither in the collective agreement and that's his failure there's no such definition, so Mr. Minister kindly please try to see with FINA that she's the agency that gives, serviced to the government with the data for the execution of this collective contract and also to follow the data of the lowest payment of gross wages for full-time so that you may be able to be, or your State Inspectorate, the State Inspectorate of the application under Article 114. Penalty for disobeying that collective contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42170	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42171	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, you have recently said very confidently about the explosion at the British Embassy: "This is an attack on Croatia's accession to the European Union." I don't know if you regretted that statement after it was discovered that it was not at all an attack, but only that British embassy employees were unwarranted to handle the bomb in their building but you also made very brave statements and announcements about the criminal charge, especially organised crime that openly threatens and the security of citizens but also the functioning of the state in fact. I'm interested in how you're going to conduct these criminal charges and organized crime reports when it's a notorious fact that you pay cops or how you plan to spend it with a police officer whose salary is less than a tram driver, a specialist whose salary is in the rank of a bus driver, the equipment of a cop who's in a shameful state. They're armed with trophy rusty guns, hollow shoes, they're self-infectious and holstered for their firearms. By the way, all of them are differently equipped and from their humble salaries and their powers of police officers on the street are approximately at the level of tighting for the ears of the kids who cheat at pixelation in the park. How do you make these announcements? That's my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42172	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42173	Mr. Representative, it's not true and you misquoted me for saying what you said earlier. So I said very clearly and thus deny Mr. Bagu last night in the journal. I did not say it was an attack on Croatia's approach to the European Union but I said that I could not take the impression that the act was directed, nor did I mention the euro of skepticism. I've just mentioned the euro of skepticism since you're one of them that appears from the bench in a positive. I said that they have the right to their euro of skepticism and that it has nothing to do with them, but I said that this act, however it comes from, is aimed at bringing Croatia closer to the European Union. Because you will not tell me that it did not happen at the embassy of the country currently holding the presidency and at a time when Croatia expects some positive decisions from the European Union. So, I didn't say that the attack on approximation is rather than that I can take the impression that this act is aimed at bringing Croatia closer to the European Union because it is right now. And the same. No, no, we know everything, you have exactly on the journal it was, it can be broadcast. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you want, I'll send you a video tape to make sure again. I've chosen words very carefully, as you know. I am still convinced that the act is also an act regardless of what was concerned because it has caused major damage to Croatia in the International Community but, of course, the police have successfully denied that there may be even greater problems such as international terrorism, etc. And we've denied it. And once again, I would like to say that Croatia is a safe country regardless of your theatrical explanation of police and police equipment. What you said wasn't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42174	Miroslav Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42175	Thank you very much. I actually didn't get an answer to the question but we're arguing about whether or not it's true what I said and I'd like to get an answer to the question. If you want to be sure of the police equipment, I'm asking you to step outside after this current hour, look at the officers who are just securing the protests here in front of the building so you can actually look at their equipment. You'll see that everyone has different belts, different holsters. I asked them myself, they told me for 15 years they didn't get a replacement for holsters, belts and equipment. This one said it was the last time, ask them. I was recently stopped by a police patrol, Mr. Prime Minister. I was stopped by a police patrol for routine control. The cop dropped my driver's license so he ducked and dropped his gun on the floor because he's got too much holster that doesn't hold and his 50th trophy TT's in there and some year completely rusty. Check it out with the cops. I don't know who's surrounding you, but check with the police minister. So these people whose salaries, I repeat, that was my question. These people whose salaries are less than tram drivers, those people whose salaries are at the level of bus drivers in the city transport of the City of Zagreb, these people should lead a decisive fight against crime and organised crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42176	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42177	Mr. President, I ask my question to Ms. Minister Marini Matulović-Dropulic. Madam Minister, one of the most difficult issues of spatial planning could refer to Minister Biskupić, unfortunately in my county. In 1978, the former Assembly of the Municipality of Biograd at sea made a decision on the development of a spatial plan. In 1983, a decision was made to define an ornithological reserve. In 1985, the demarcation of the ornithological and decision was made to make a spatial area in which one zone along with a church up there called Majdan was defined as a building area. In 1993, the municipality of Pakostane and in 1999 took over my initiative and Zadar County established the Nature Park Vranjsko jezero which then distinguishes this area. And before the war, the city of Biograd sold several construction plots in the area. After the war, the municipality of Pakostane sells three to me, building plots to the defenders, and there's the key to the problem. However, it seems to me the first Sunday of March 2003 that Racan's government performed the largest police pectacular action after the Storm with about 5 hundred special forces and police officers on those three defence facilities and, of course, collapsed and filed the bill of payment of one of the defenders, which I will later use the answer to that question. So, during the Mass in front of the church with 500 special forces trying to professionally distinguish the area of nature park and construction zone. Which you intend to do because this is one of the most difficult and hot questions in our county's spatial planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42178	Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, if that were one of the most difficult questions I think we would all be very pleased together. But we almost solved that problem. It has been established and will now be in front of the Parliament very soon to determine the boundaries of nature park and the boundaries of the ornithological reserve. The Ministry of Culture and my ministry have agreed and made limits. It is true that one part of the plot is in trouble because it is located within an ornithological reserve, but with the special pawning of the Municipality of Pakostane we agreed and that part and part of the plot we solved as replacement plots. It's a total of 40 parcels. Of which there are 14 parcels to be moved. Therefore, the borders are proposed, will go to a public debate very quickly and I hope that since we have done everything and in agreement with the municipality of Pakostane that everything will be fine. After that is done at the same time and the spatial plan of Nature Park Vranjsko jezero. Therefore, and it will go to a public debate very quickly and I believe that we will finally solve this big problem to the general satisfaction of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42180	Thank you. I'm a representative of the Arthrial Sime. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42181	Thank you very much. And why now, and why, and even emotionally, I react to it. Namely, it was one of the defenders who, when he went to the guard of the three men, cut them off with a raft and happened to be alive, the other two died. Now, look at the wonders. Those who cut him, who took down his old house above, get now according to the laws, get construction material and get rid of status, and this same defender has to pay 28 thousand kuna and I personally took measures at all levels, so I ask you once again to help him, but also to allow for the realization of the replacement or otherwise. And had I not personally reacted to many others then soberly begging the defenders not to react to who knows what might have come? Here's the attitude towards defenders, that's how they actually solve these professional problems. And that is why, and this is also the condition of the adoption of the spatial plan and the zone, and therefore the condition of development and employment is necessary to resolve this problem as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42182	Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to refer the Minister of Health to a respected doctor. Dr. The Bride Lover. It is known that Croatia spends on medicines between 3% and 4% of its total gross national income. It is a sum many ministers would like to see as their budget amount. Part of the money goes really to treat patients and that's not what this is about, but the growing part of the money is spent on medicines that the patient never takes or even on drugs that harm the patient. The first group, which is never spent, is 40% of the prescribed medicines or about a billion kuna, which yearly according to the World Health Organization, Croatia throws into sewers or keeps in drawers. The other group of harmful medicines are those where more than three medicines are prescribed simultaneously to one patient because pharmacologists say that more than 3 medicines cannot be controlled because their biochemical compound in the body is too complex and more harmful than beneficial. You have applied a series of very useful and successful measures in the fight against such evils growing year after year in drug consumption 20% in Croatia. My question is focused on the follow-up, which is the introduction of an administrative fee. You've introduced her to other European countries. And we expected her to be in that sense and accepted. Unfortunately, some media have announced that this measure has caused a 20% increase in drug costs at the start of this summer. My question is is is is it true that the increase in medications due to this administrative measure has increased since patients allegedly bought drugs in advance to protect themselves from emerging measures? And the second question is, do you have a firm record of monitoring the increase in drug consumption in these areas where they do not use or even harm the patient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42184	Thank you. Health Minister Neven Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42185	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I thank the honourable parliamentary representative Professor Hebrang for this question because I think it is extremely important on the one hand in fact to remove certain doubts that have arisen after certain media inscriptions, but perhaps in fact to explain some of the things that take place on drug policies in the Republic of Croatia at all. If you let me exactly be that of... At the beginning of this year, we monitor exactly every item of drug consumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's something that's normal. We want to know not only for financial reasons but to actually protect those who take medicines to have control of the consumption of each individual medicine and the same insurance company that takes it. What I must also say is that by using a conflicting pricing policy, but also by adopting acts that have allowed more than 200 preparations in Croatia to have practically the lowest price in Europe at the moment. It's something we've actually achieved, which I think is a big step because we've made it possible for our citizens not to be denied for any medicine, but actually to spend as much as possible. These, I'm going to call them, the insinuations that have actually been brought by certain daily presses, which is that, that the cost of medicines has increased after the administrative fee has been introduced, I'm using this opportunity to absolutely eliminate any such insinuations because it doesn't suit the truth. So when we look at the first eight months of this year, we clearly see that drug consumption is down by about 3%. At the same time, and I would like to stress that we have introduced a new 47 medicines. 27 medicines of the innovative industry, therefore, very expensive medicines. But that's what we're asked to do. Why? We want to give our citizens the best, and we need to follow the trends of the farm... Everywhere in the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how it's gonna be in us. In those three percent we actually saved, we have the exact data for each month individually. And what some individuals wrote was that, in fact, after the introduction or prior introduction of the administrative fee, the cost of the drugs had increased. That's not true because when we look at the average of all practically eight months we'll see that the only month that reflects where consumption was something higher is June. However, if we look at both 2004 and 2003 and 2002, and so again we will see that always before summer, so before the summer season before the annual vacations, the virtually quantum drug separation is increased. Why? Because people go on vacation. They're creating a certain supply for their vacation, and that's something we tolerate and what's normal. Of course, in August, this consumption was stable or corresponds to consumption in both July and May and so on. Therefore, there is no reason to actually talk about the increased consumption of medicines due to the administrative fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42186	Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42187	Thank you very much. I am extremely pleased with your response and I think that these measures deserve all support, and the aim of the measure is to translate the enormous profits of the pharmaceutical industry into those medicines that really need our patient and I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42188	Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister to the Minister of the Family, the Defence, intergenerational solidarity, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. My question is what the Ministry intends to do about reducing and, of course, ending domestic violence against women as we have recently learned from the media about a significant increase in domestic violence against women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42190	Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, thank you very much for this question that you are here today to address the National Day of Combating Violence against Women. It is tomorrow, it is September 22nd on the proposal of the Croatian Government as you remember last year the Croatian Parliament accepted that it be the National Day against Violence Against Women in Memory, including the three women who were killed in the Municipal Court in Zagreb who the angry husband killed his wife in a divorce case, lawyer and judge. This day, however, of course, warns against violence against women and domestic violence. I will say in response to your question not only about what the Ministry of the Family does but what makes the entire Croatian government. Last year, the Croatian government adopted a National Strategy or National Programme to fight domestic violence. The programme consists of several measures, including short-term, long-term, 10 long-term, 17 short-term measures. On the basis of this and under the law on the prevention of domestic violence, we have just last week, so I am talking about the Croatian government and adopted a protocol on the conduct in the case of domestic violence. Unfortunately, the most common victims of violence are women or children. But in most cases, the woman is a victim and this protocol, which was also attended by representatives of the ministries of the family, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ombudsman for gender equality for children, as well as representatives of the judiciary. We have made this protocol that for the first time determines very clearly what, who, at which point should do it in the event of reports of domestic violence or violence against women? For example, the police must react immediately. He needs to get to the scene right away. He's got to take away the bully's weapon immediately if he's got it legal. If he finds out he's been illegally also taken away, he'll also do anything to take away a bully's weapon from everywhere. It also exists in the protocol of social care centres, health institutions, schools, that, immediately in the event of reports of police violence, police must react at the same time. What's equally important, the bully has to be brought in and I would say in one word by adopting this protocol we can today, on the eve of the National Day against Violence against Women, tell them that the bullyes have been called off, that they will indeed be persecuted, and that no one else at the tip of violence against women, or violence in the family, will be allowed to shake hands and say that's none of our business, that's your problem behind four walls. Tomorrow you'll get back together, tomorrow you'll kiss and hug, so we don't want to get involved. Therefore, the protocol makes it clear that we must all be concerned together, that we must interfere, that it is an obligation for all. In addition, this may be an opportunity to say two or three words about what we did through the Ministry of the Family. Since the start of the government's mandate, one of the first moves by both prime ministers and the entire government has been, if you remember, a decision on 200 thousand kunas to help the women's autonomous house in Zagreb that would have shut down that the government had not reacted because they were in great difficulty. We have continued with the programme to help NGOs who deal with violence and have our full support dealing with the problem of violence against women, that is, in the family. For this purpose, in the last year we allocated more than a million and 400 thousand kuna, in this year here until September, the day before yesterday when I signed another contract, a million and 386 thousand kuna also in support of these houses, i.e. institutions dealing with the care of victims of violence. So, Mr. President, if I can just say one sentence, I use this opportunity to invite the entire Croatian public to mark tomorrow's National Day Against Violence Against Women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42192	Thank you. Let's mark tomorrow against violence against women. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42193	Thank you very much. Here I thank Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, our Minister and Deputy Prime Minister for the truly exhaustive response and for all these activities that the ministry has undertaken, because on the occasion of the national Day of Combating Violence against Women, we have received members of the Committee on Gender Equality reports from all responsible ministries of violence in 2004, so these are really alarming data on the number of victims, on the structure of the victims and on the structure of the victims, and I really hold that the entire society, all ministries, all institutions, all relevant experts must be involved in education and in the fight against domestic violence and women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42194	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, reports that the 25th Thematic Session of the Committee on Gender Equality is scheduled for today at the hall "Ivan Mažuranić" at 13:30. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42195	I refer the question to the Minister of the Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Construction, Marina Matulović-Dropulić. Dear ministers, several representatives of local self-government units have introduced me to the problem of waste management that can be used as secondary raw materials. That's where you think about glass, paper, PET packaging and stuff. In particular, these units of local self-government do not have sufficient financial resources in the budgets for the supply of containers, i.e. containers for that type of waste. In line with the above, my question is: Can the Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Construction help to obtain waste containers that can be used as secondary raw materials to local self-government units that do not have the ability to do so on their own? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42196	Thank you. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42197	Mr. President. Madam MPs, based on the Waste Act, we have also created a waste management strategy that you will discuss very quickly, but we have also established how the price for the export of municipal waste is formed. The price must also include the purchase of such containers. However, knowing the situation and knowing that certain units of local self-government do not have enough resources, we have so far provided funds for primary waste separation because we know that this is our first priority, because if we don't separate we'll have more and more day by day more and more trash. We have so far provided 7 million and 200 thousand kunas that we bought cans, containers to individual units of local self-government especially in areas of special state care. Just like we're taking them out of wild dumps that we don't do to everyone else, but these areas that have died and have a lot of silence and everything, we're doing that part of the job. Therefore, we will continue to finance the Environmental Protection Fund and our ministry to obtain these cans and containers, because as I have already told us, this is one of the first priorities that, if we are to strictly stick to, we will certainly reduce the garbage by more than 50%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42198	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42199	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer. In Croatia, it is really a matter of useful waste at first, so I believe this proposed strategy, so this way, the proposed strategy will stop the need to import useful waste that we can say we have in abundance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42200	Honorable representative, Karlema Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42201	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Minister of Health, Mr. Neven Ljubic. The reform of Koprivnica Health began seven years ago by implementing a World Bank pilot project. We're partly familiar with the health reform of Koprivnica. Let us really remember those famous 17 million kunas that have been spent on intellectual services, and the result of these services we see for ourselves. Let us remember the departure of medical personnel not to Austria nearer us but to Australia, etc. In July of this year, a contract was signed on the continuation of reconstruction, upgrade and partial upgrade of the central hospital building where it will move internally with pulmology, haemodialysis, infectology, intensive treatment units and hospital cuisine. The new interior will cost 75m kuna and should be completed by April 2006. Given the contentious signs in the press, it is my question: Is the new building being built out of the World Bank's funds or is there a new way of financing the Government and the Ministry of Health? If so, from what source and to what amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42202	Thank you. Minister of Health, Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, one more question, so the hospital in Koprivnica doesn't know which times, but I think it's absolutely justified. Now that we've actually seen a little bit more of the additional picture here, so 17 practically million kunas that went into intellectual services have produced one fruit, and it's actually a disaster in the Koprivnica hospital. That disaster actually meant that the Koprivnica hospital had run out of intense care, inappropriate dialysis that was working in the condition of the 1960s, that we didn't actually have a whole series of facilities that every hospital didn't need, but had to have. And that's why we actually went into the analysis of how we can help that hospital correct the wrongs that have been done, or put it in full function. In the conversations we actually had with the county itself, the only way that existed and that exists is either decentralised funds or own income. At its meeting in July of this year, the government made a unanimous decision, allowing the county to enter credit policy, so to enter into debt in the period from 2007 to 2016, by making complete construction, and the value of the investment is exactly 85 million kuna, so it is aimed at all the facilities that are missing the hospital. I'm just going to give another example to the pathology of that hospital, and that's where the pie has to be given to the dead in the former stables. That's inadmissible. And that's why we entered into this way of funding where 85 million kuna, so the government's practical consent for borrowing the county in the period, I repeat, from 2007 to 2016, is part of the funds, 85% of the funds from decentralised and 15% of the county's own income. And it's actually a de facto model that's been presented for the first time, for the first time he's revived a model that seems actually adequate and, of course, has its legal foothold. As far as the World Bank project itself is concerned, it ends at the end of this year. The way we've actually managed to bring it to an end, we've fixed everything that's wrong and I'm quite certain that thanks to this government decision, the Koprivnica Hospital will function within its maximum range, the extent that it should be like a strong county hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42204	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42205	Thank you very much. I'm happy with your answer. I'd apologize, it's even $17 million, not millions of kuna spent from the World Bank. I believe you'll also apply a similar model to a Belarusian hospital that really has catastrophic conditions, from kitchens, sterilizations, etc. And I'm glad you explained this that there's no funding from the state budget, right, that absolutely illegal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42206	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask my question to the minister of environmental protection, spatial planning and construction Mrs. Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Based on an announcement of the removal of 40 illegal objects in the area of Nadosibova in the municipality of Milna on the island of Brac, please, Madam Minister, on behalf of the citizens of this country, us MPs or some personal ones, to explain the criteria for selecting sites that are primarily going to the collapse. We of the SDP Club have been asked to ask this question in the Assembly because, unfortunately, from your ministry to this day, they have not shown themselves to the numerous enquiries of the Milna Municipality's leadership, one part of the leadership, one part of the citizens. I note that the SDP as a party and I as an individual support the collapse of illegal objects, of course under conditions guaranteed by the Constitution, and that is the equality and equality of all before the laws of this country, which seems to me not so in this case. The municipality of Milna warned the ministry in her demands that they would agree that the facilities would collapse, but then either to everyone or to no one. Because with the facilities that are intended to be destroyed this time and that, one good part of these facilities is the second, third row of the sea, in the construction area that can be legalised in the future, there are illegal buildings built on the coastal line, meaning even in the maritime goods belt outside the construction areas, on the infrastructure corridors, and unfortunately despite the warnings of the competent inspection service, they did not react even though they were warned about it from the municipality. Until today, unfortunately, these objects were also not in the control process at all, they were not given any inspection solution, let alone a solution to the collapse, although they are far more dangerous and worse cases of devastation than those that need to be destroyed. Instead, some of these facilities are legally connected to, for example, HEP's network, although we in this House have passed laws that make it impossible. So, Madam Minister, I once again ask you to explain to us the criteria by which the demolition facilities are chosen, because it turns out that not all citizens are the same in front of the law and not even in front of the baggers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42208	Thank you. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I think what you just said is definitely not true, that all people are not equal in front of the law. That's because you've managed to find out through the newspapers where we've destroyed everything, and now I'm going to tell you what the criteria are. The first criterion is the protected area. As you know, it's a coastal area that's been declared a protected area and it's nature parks or national parks, so we crashed on the coast, so we crashed in the Medvednica Nature Park. The second criterion is that it is located outside the building area of the facility. We also brought this down most of the Istrian County because people were building cottages where there was never a construction area and where there would probably never be a construction area. There are other demolitions in the areas of other purpose, so that's the case in Milna. In Milna these facilities are located in the area of tourist construction, not in the area, in the building area where other construction is possible. It's exactly what tourism says, and the cottages aren't in tourism, tourism under all our laws and under all our regulations. We're further historical, and so we've crashed into historical units. After that are the apartmentization of space and actually the building of apartments for sale where tourism is scheduled. These are our criteria, and we've been doing it exactly by these criteria. As for the Municipality of Milna, they have asked for a conversation with us one time so far and will surely come to talk, but we do not necessarily have 500 interested municipalities to call on the moment when a person announces himself. With them changing their spatial plan and putting on cottages instead of tourism, they can legalise it, but where tourism is important and where we all know that it is important to employ individual people living in such areas, I am sure that even the municipality will not be for such a variety. Also, I have to say just a few more words about illegal construction, like Mr. Markov said today that it's surprising that we brought down such a mole. If someone is working on a maritime good without a concession, without a spatial plan, without any permission, and if they still charge for it, then I think that well, that we know whether it's a folk mall or a private mall, and we've all committed ourselves to obeying the law, we've also sworn parliamentary representatives and we. Therefore, we simply have to stick to it. And another one of his fears about which I must certainly say something, so that it will not be destroyed by Croatian citizens without destroying others. We crashed, unfortunately, even though I'm telling us the biggest cancer wound that illegal construction is, and we are, it's one of the hardest jobs, because the hardest job I'm doing in my ministry. We have destroyed both the Italians and the Austrians and the Slovenians and we simply have no different criteria than the law and what I have told you so far, and so we will act in the future. And the prime minister made it clear to you, if we want a legal state, then all these tourists who have never seen in their lives that something is building illegal objects are surprised because they haven't seen it. They have no idea what an illegal object is. Therefore, we must stop it and I must say that I am pleased that we have done so much so far. Unfortunately, we've brought down 662 objects so far, but it's also important to tell you that we've done 24,000 and 126 exams of the facilities. So the inspectors work all the time, no matter how difficult it is for us to get to those inspectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42210	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42211	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I have to say, I'm partly pleased with your answer because part of the answer is me, or what I said in my explanation, you just didn't answer. I would ask you, however, a written reply and an indication of these memos from the Milna municipality on one side, and on the other hand, I would like you to personally make sure that the inspection despite requests from the Milna municipality did not come out, saw what was in the maritime goods belt, which is on the infrastructure corridors. Probably because there are some of the senior current or current HDZ officials who have built their holiday houses, and you probably don't want to or won't. But I'm asking you in writing to give me an answer because if that's the case, the citizens aren't equal under the law. Your priority is what's in the second or third row of the sea, and it's not what's first row to the sea on the infrastructure corridor. It's a little weird, but true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42212	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42213	Thank you, Mr. President. I will refer my question to the Ministry of Defence, so I ask Mr. Secretary of State when there is no minister to answer me, and it refers to the military complex in the town of Križevci in Koprivnica-Kristevci County. I am sorry to say that since the beginning of 2003, by pawning the city authorities and the Ministry of Defence when Ms. Antunović was an evicted army of Croatia from that military station in Virovitica, and that these buildings at 10 hectares of surface in the centre of the city are empty. That's why I ask the most beautiful secretary of state to answer what the Ministry is up to with this complex. Because, on Saturday, we had the 14th anniversary of the entry of our forces into that barracks. We have to say that we were in the Varazdin Corps and that, in that military facility that was part of the Varazdin Corps, we entered on September 16th. So, 10 days ago, both Belovar and Koprivnica and Varazdin. And that we all do, especially as the then president of the Crisis Staff who organised it all, and today's representative cares about putting these buildings into operation as he thinks is best for the Cross and for the Croatian state as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42214	Thank you. Secretary of State at the Department of Defense, Mato Raboteg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42215	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I thank you for the matter of Madam Representatives. In short, the first direct answer the Ministry of Defense wants to do with the military. The defence ministry has also clearly declared the Croatian Army House and the Križevci military as unspective for the Armed Forces. So there's no doubt about it, and now I'm going to try to give you an explanation of why this question has not been resolved so far. Therefore, the Križevci military complex was interested on one hand in the Ministry of Science and Education and showed the need to be part of the facilities in military re-use for the purposes of primary school. The town of Križevci has also expressed its interest and we have shown ourselves to both sides and we have held talks and these talks have been held on several occasions, including in the presence of representatives of the Central State Office for State Property Management. In short, there are two things. There is a regular procedure and there is something that could be said about the needs and demands of the Ministry of Defence regarding the transaction. So, the Ministry of Defence offered the town of Križevci Home of the Croatian Army without compensation. We, of course, are not owners, we manage facilities on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, but we view objects that are not perspectives as potential frozen resources that should be activated if this is to reconcile the needs of the local community and the needs of the Ministry of Defence, activated in the function of modernising the equipment of the Armed Forces. Because on the one hand, budgetary constraints, therefore, force us to look for alternative sources because we also need to modernise the Armed Forces, our partner goals, etc. But, therefore, the House of the Croatian Army, we said, we are not asking for any compensation, and for the military we have proposed to the town of Križevci to finance the equipment of the Bilogora military plant in Bjelovar in the part that we need because it is a perspective facility in which we must invest and do not meet the standards. We need to edit the kitchen, etc. Now, the town of Križevci disagreed and said he was unable to finance it. We then asked the town of Križevci to declare in which amount and in which time they were willing to pay some kind of contribution that we would use. I have to tell you what a legal procedure is. The legal procedure is that, therefore, the Central State Office is required to assess the value. We have made an assessment of the value and it is based on a value assessment made by the District Office in the Crosses of the Tax Administration. So it is an authority that is authorized and asked to make an assessment of the value and this assessment of value was worth 53 million kuna, and for the Croatian Army home 12 million and 500 thousand kuna. The town of Križevci disagreed, he hired his evaluator and their assessment differed dramatically. Somewhere less than 18 million kunas. So we have two estimates. Part of the facilities in the assessment of the witches hired by the town of Križevci is an estimate with a value of 0 because they planned to tear down those objects. Therefore, the value of the land is also significantly lower than that assessed by the Tax Administration. So, on the other hand, we've assessed what would be the value of those papers we're looking for as compensation to the military Biligora in Bjelovar. This is half the lowest estimate of the value of the property that the town of Križevci has shown, therefore, somewhere around 10 million kuna. So, I don't think our request is exaggerating. First of all, so, what next? We should continue to try to reconcile these two evaluations of values and then the Central State Office eventually makes a decision. Namely, the Commission of Government, since it is for the management of state property, since it is a price higher than 10 million kuna will make a decision. So, for now, it's time to try to sit down again, reconcile those two assessments and find some sort of agreement that part of the pension will be completed for these needs of the Croatian Army as well. However, the ministry, or the town of Križevci, has not been shown at all whether it is willing to participate in the settlement of the defence ministry's needs. I think you're gonna need to sit down again, but first of all, this big disrepancy in the assessment is in the eye and something has to be done about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42216	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42217	I thank you for the very comprehensive answer, and I am glad that the public has been able to hear, therefore, that this is not a matter of mixing with these premises because information has appeared in the press to negotiate with foreign trade chains. I will personally engage with Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and we hope that we will put all of these buildings and the entire space into function and economy and science and therefore thank you again for the response and for the activities that we will continue to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42218	Dear Representative Frano Matušić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42219	I thank Mr. President, I would like to refer my question to the Ministry of the Sea, or here to the present Secretary of State for the Sea, Mr. Bačić. We are witnessing that, unfortunately, in Europe in recent years, the interest in maritime calling has fallen, among other things, because of their social situation. Unfortunately, and in Croatia, such a trend is present, I come from Dubrovnik, a city that owes its wealth and everything that we are particularly proud of today to seamen and sailors. In one such city, there is a problem of forming today, unfortunately, a classy seaman’s department, or those who will be engaged in maritime titles in the future, even more difficult the situation of enrolment, the formation of a class at the university. Since we are a country of maritime orientation and since our Croatian sailors are highly appreciated in the world and in foreign shipmen and there is a really big area on the market for their employment. I am interested in what the Ministry is doing and what it intends to do to improve the position of the seamen and their employment, and in particular what it intends to do in solving their social situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42220	Thank you. Secretary of State Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42221	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is an accurate finding by colleague Matušić, that in Croatia there is a growing interest in maritime activities and maritime occupations, and it is not only the fact that such interest is lower only in Croatia but also in the European Union and in all developed maritime countries. In fact, it is primarily a non-compliant legislative regulation that defines the position of sailors on board ships, shipowners often use the situation and then hire sailors coming from less developed countries where the lower labour price is, and thus become competitive on the world market. Aware of these facts, we have brought a maritime code in this House for the first time which we have regulated the conditions of operations of Croatian shipmen whose ships sail in international navigation but also for the first time we have established and regulated the labour and social rights of sailors sailing on board ships in international navigation. For perhaps if, one information that speaks enough about the fact that this social status of Croatian sailors has been unregulated so far tells the fact that out of about 27 thousand Croatian sailors, only a few of them have been registered is social and pension insurance. Therefore, we are based on the Maritime Code adopted last year by the Parliament's commitment of the Minister of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development to adopt an order that it prescribes that vessels sailing in international navigation pay for pension and health insurance as well as to sail in national navigation. We have made it very easy for them to apply to health and pension insurance in a certain way. In addition, the finance minister gave the order to establish a maritime supplement of 400 kuna per day and which is an untaxable part of the income, which then directly increases the salary of vessels sailing in international navigation. In addition, we have also made an indication that we will prescribe that Croatian seamen who complete their education in the Republic of Croatia no longer have to pay additional courses and who were extremely expensive and who were obliged to do so after completed schooling in order to be able to work on ships. In this way we practically reduced their financial expenses and these expenditures were over 35 to 40 thousand kuna. In its plan for this year, the Ministry also plans to introduce scholarships for the best Croatian students attending high sea schools and high sea schools in the Republic of Croatia and thus we would practically attract young seamen to these maritime calls. And another measure that we are planning and I hope will pass through the state budget is a measure that will set out funds in the state budget for young seamen who finish high schools in the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Croatia which will practically be paid by their expenditures, which must be paid by the shipowner, primarily for pension and health insurance, which must be paid during the time they take their traineeship on board ships in international navigation. I hope that these measures, prescribed by that number of 27 thousand seamen, will enable most of them to be included in the work and social system in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42222	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42223	I thank Mr. Secretary of State, I am personally pleased with your response, I am sure that there will be sailors especially when all the measures that you have put into effect but, of course, it is important that in the future, together with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, you follow the development and monitoring of maritime calls and seamen, I think it is indeed a calling that can be more interested in the future and that the market is really suitable and that people from Croatia will be even more engaged in maritime activities, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42224	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Let me first of all conclude with my question a few findings. The situation in Croatian agriculture to be mild is extremely serious but if we really look at the situation it is in one agony closer to disaster. We wonder what contributed to this, and we have already repeatedly warned about the reasons ahead. Systemic measures which shyly support domestic production do not produce results and open competition doors with extensive external subsidies cancel domestic production. I'm referring to the question of how much domestic food has been spent in tourism already so much praised by some of our profits, we actually sold someone else's food to feed these people. Furthermore, nature is playing games with us or rather God does not listen to us and elementary disasters often punish us, and while we sum up the whole situation she is not only serious but she is more than serious. So now I'm asking a direct question to the Minister, but it's also a question to the Government, what he thinks but direct answers, to take a resolute ministry, even though we know that by this time, because the provisional claims for damage have arrived 860 million kunas, reported damage and how to help people, because if the delay is, if the situation on the market is the way it is, if it's still not helped by easing from the elementary disasters, then I really don't know what's ahead of us. So I ask the Minister if it is not possible to say specifically if no intervention measures have been taken on the government in writing, but our peasants are now expecting direct assistance from the Government because the situation is extremely serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42226	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42227	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I really thank you for your great and generous concern for agriculture. And you need to worry, you're a parliamentary representative. And normally you have the right to your point of view, your opinion, and your own video of the situation. And I don't deny you that right. But also let me say a few things. You said we were in agony, ahead of disaster. And I'll just tell you. Just these days, these weeks we have the opportunity to attend the opening of new objects for dairy cows, we have the opportunity to attend the opening of new ULO coolers and create certain assumptions that our agriculture can take one normal direction and one normal direction. I agree, it could have been done, it had to be done before, it had to be done before raising vineyards, orchards and creating self-sufficiency for its own needs. Unfortunately, our production does not have sufficient self-sufficiency in all cities and this results in these imports. I agree that the import is large, that we should work on it to reduce and work. But also, Mr. Representative, I have to tell you one fact that I don't think you're talking about enough. In this year alone, the increase in exports is significantly higher than the increase in imports and in absolute terms. And the fact is, in this year, we're going to come to a billion dollars in agricultural-food exports. We'll have over a billion and a half imports, but the fact is that much faster exports are growing than imports are growing. The fact is that the agriculture sector has the highest coverage of exports. And now let me not take any longer. You've asked a direct question about the elemental disasters. Elemental accidents are something that unfortunately cannot be avoided sometimes. I've been to most areas where natural disasters have occurred. They were usually such that they simply couldn't be prevented. I was in Herzegovec, I was in the area of the Grubish Field. And I also have data from the Hydrometeorological Institute that practically this cloud that has caused such damage is not such a cloud of icy record so far since cloud motion has been monitored. I'll tell you what. Normally, we've been following the situation, we've been looking for a list of all the damages, that most of it's made up. Also, I have to say that not all the damage and that is not the amount prescribed everywhere is adequate for real damage. We will go in the direction of the right video, our inspection services are on the ground, and after that we will propose, the ministry will propose certain ways of solving and easing the consequences of these I would say great elemental disasters that are unfortunately beyond our control and control capabilities, which have occurred and which have taken place I agree with a major blow to Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42228	Honored representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42229	Of course I'm not happy with the answer. Obviously, Mr. Minister, you don't understand the situation in the country, and that's your handicap. I assure you that export growth and cover imports and export coverage will result in a growth of 655 million imbalances this year. If you think three years ago when it was a imbalance of 174 million that this was progress, then I really don't understand math. But obviously we're talking about two different things because you're doing well and as the villagers are best at talking about it themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42230	Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42231	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to ask State Secretary Branko Bačić of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, and this is about the final completion of the Novigrad knot on the Zagreb-Rijek highway section between Karlovac and Bosiljev. The node is well built, practically all parts of the highway corridor are completed. At the end of that part of the Zagreb-Rijeka highway, however, there was a change in the management of the Zagreb-Rijeka stock company, and after that nothing worked on that knot. Croatian roads have a program of quality building of access roads to the knot itself, but with the existing access roads, the knot itself can be functional. I note that by putting into operation this node, which is the only construction node on the Zagreb-Rijeka highway, would connect a good part of the Karlovo County to the knot and traffic from neighbouring Slovenia, which should be in the interest of the highway itself. The question is, when will this knot be put into operation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42232	Thank you. Secretary of State Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42233	Thank you, Mr. President. It is true that this knot is already partly and built and that it is extremely important for traffic on the Zagreb-Rijek highway and for two reasons. The first reason is that it is practically the shortest road from Metlika in Slovenia towards the Adriatic Sea. And the second reason is that its realization practically relieves the state road D6 that passes through Karlovac and which contributes significantly to the creation of traffic in the city itself. According to the information provided by the highways, the realization and completion of the construction of this Node of Novigrad depends on the construction of access roads that connect to this node. The location permit for the access road is under way and when the words of the documentation will approach the completion of the construction of the knots in Novigrad. The Zagreb-Rijeka Road Company has provided 3 million kuna funds for 2006 with the means to complete the construction of the hub itself in the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42234	Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42235	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42236	Thank you. And the final parliamentary issue, the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42237	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Prime Minister Sanader my question and it starts like this. When adopting a list of companies of particular national interest, it was said in a statement that when the Government proposed the Parliament to adopt that list, it was guided by basic criteria, which is 25% of the ownership. Then I asked the State Secretary who defended the government's proposal on three occasions why there is no Liburni hotel Riviera on the list because Liburnia was owned by a state of over 50%. That's when I didn't get any answers. I wonder if the state then forgot about the Liburni Riviera hotels or deliberately left them off that list, or if it had any other plans with them that I could not figure out, and because of that, I ask you whether you deliberately left Liburni out of the list of companies of special state interest to give Mr. Ostojić and Mr. Eltz legal profit, legal clean profit, or if we are looking at a moral robbery of billions and 200 million kunas of Croatian property, so I would ask you to answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42238	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42239	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Representative, of course, that everything you've said has nothing to do with common sense, nor is it true what you last claimed, nor is it true what you first claimed. Namely, all that we have agreed with you to be as a criterion for listing companies on this list we have done. And don't take yourself as a right to stand above everyone because you have participated in that list together.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42240	Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42241	I am very pleased with the prime minister's answer because he showed that all these jobs about the conversion of Liberia, Lebanon were as it was written in the papers and that the government has deliberately left Liburnia Riviera hotels since the beginning of the day when the government brought in a list of companies of special state interest because I've been here three times after the Assembly speaker and asked why these hotels aren't listed? And it's not about property like veterinary stations where it was 10 thousand kuna property, that 25%, but it's about 50, then it was about 50 hotels. And I wonder, what my belief that I had long considered was it time after the conversion and privatisation, after all the evil that had been done in the conversion and privatisation of HDZ meant to be declared a criminal organization and banned from her work?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42242	A fellow representative, Kapraljevic, is a serious insult both hypothetically and rhetorically, it is a serious insult to the political party of the Croatian Democratic Union to put her in the context of a criminal organisation. Telling you a warning wouldn't be enough and I don't want to give you a warning. It is best for you if the Croatian public watched and listened to this performance. To call one Croatian party, the party that played a key role in the creation of Croatia's criminal organisation is a shameful assessment The government is gone, the government has no backlogs towards MPs in asking parliamentary questions. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Current morning is over. I'm interrupting the session. We will continue at 3:00 with the proposal for a bill on the state election commission. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. I would ask MPs who are outside the hall to enter the hall because he intends to add to the agenda the conclusion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. There's been a change of counsel. A representative of Mastruko should perform instead of a representative of Kurt's and take an oath. We should have a quorum to put it on the agenda and do this job briefly, so I ask MPs and MPs to enter the hall to secure the quorum for the purpose of including and determining those points of the agenda. We continue with the Proposal for a Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 329. 1. Proposal for a law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 329 The proposer of the law is the Government. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law implemented by the committees on legislation, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system shall apply. You received the reports at the session. I would like the Secretary of State of the Central State for the Administration of Mr. Antun Palaric to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Croatia, as announced, has launched a more serious reform of the electoral system for the President of the Republic and the implementation of regular elections for members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, and as one part of that reform proposes the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia in the first reading with a view to having a thorough discussion of the law in order to ultimately obtain the body professionally from the general trust that would be able to conduct elections in the Republic of Croatia, all forms of elections, for the President of the Republic, for the Croatian Parliament and also for the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government and possibly direct elections for the mayor, municipal mayor and mayor. The government is pleased with the quality of the work of the current State Election Commission. We believe that the implementation of all elections is mainly in this year, so two rounds of presidential elections and regular elections for the representative bodies of the local self-government units have been carried out in a legitimate manner, that all the bodies involved in the electoral process have carried out their respective tasks by law, and thus Croatia has once again shown that the country of highly developed democracy. The main reason why we are initiating the adoption of this law is the fact that the State Election Commission was engaged judges and other judicial officials who, due to their high obligations in the work of the State Election Commission, had to be left behind from their regular affairs and could not perform their judicial duties or other duties in judicial bodies. Given that the government's programme also includes a direct election system for mayors, it is expected that the State Election Commission will have more work to do in the coming period. We therefore believe that a professional body should be created to deal only with the conduct of the elections. We propose that the commission has five members, presidents, two vice-presidents and two members, that the chairman of the commission be elected from the ranks of prominent experts of the legal profession but based on a public call. One vice-president and one member would be elected on a parliamentary majority proposal and the other vice-president and the other would be elected on a parliamentary opposition proposal. We want to make that body independent, constantly, protected from possible political pressures. We therefore foresee this law a long eight-year term for members of the National Election Commission. We also prescribe that members cannot be members of any political party regardless of what their choice would be to propose a majority or opposition. And in the resolution, we do not foresee the possibility that they should be resolved for political reasons only for personal reasons or if they lose any of the properties that would make them unworthy of acting as members of the commission. Since we're professionalizing this body, we think we can trust him with additional jobs other than the jobs that the Electoral Law provides him with. I would like to highlight cooperation with other bodies abroad, above all in Europe of the European Union, reflection and initiative in changing electoral legislation. And perhaps most importantly, we'd trust them with their concerns about keeping a list of voters. Lists of voters in the Republic of Croatia are legally conducted. In them are all Croatian citizens who are 18 years old who are registered with residence in the Republic of Croatia, but we have some problems as to the fact that some Croatian citizens do not reside in the place where they are registered and this issue will be settled, but our idea in this law has been drawn up that the State Election Commission will be responsible for the legality of keeping the list of voters. We predict that the State Commission also has a strong professional service that could carry out all these tasks in such a way that there is one official in each county and in the City of Zagreb who would be the professional secretary of the County Election Commission or the City Election Commission of the City of Zagreb while there is no choice he would take care of the legal conduct and the up-to-date management of the list of voters. Our goal is to debate this law thoroughly, so we proposed it as a first reading. All the comments and suggestions to be heard here will be considered very carefully. And what is justified and acceptable within the framework of the government's concept will be incorporated into the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42260	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, President Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42261	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System discussed the draft law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia at its 38th session on 12 July 2005. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the draft law. We keep the necessary establishment of the commission as a permanent professional and independent body selected for eight years. The Committee also believes that a person can be selected as president and a member of the National Election Commission in accordance with the experience of European countries other than the legal or political profession. After the debate, the committee proposed by a majority of votes seven to one vote against the parliament to pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42262	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of IDS representatives respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42263	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the state office! Here, on behalf of the IDS Club, I give our view that we, in principle, support the adoption of this law in the first reading at least we have serious objections as to the composition of the State Election Commission itself. A few months ago, I was myself the proposer of the Law on the State Election Commission, which then was not accepted but fortunately, the Government proposed the first reading of this Law, which, therefore, also moves into the formation of the State Election Commission. So during the debate on my bill, everyone agreed that it was necessary, therefore, to form a state election championship primarily as a permanent body, as an independent body that would, therefore, quality and continuously monitor both the elections themselves and the electoral process that would have to be permanent throughout the year. So what we were warning about then was the fact that our laws allow the existence of that. There was a State Election Commission. Only the Law on Elections has been discussed in the current Law that the State Election Commission has a permanent and extended composition. The permanent composition was therefore the judges of the Supreme Court. Here we hear and accept this argument, therefore, that the judges of the Supreme Court are too busy to do so and that they do not really need this function of members of the State Election Commission and thus suffers our entire judiciary. What we also warned that the practice of such an existing State Election Commission was such that it could not actually be called a permanent state commission. What was going on? This was therefore the case that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia appointed a State Election Commission before the elections, composed of judges of the Supreme Court and, in most cases, the president of the National Election Commission was also the President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Ivica Crnic. This was the case for both the last local elections when the State Election Commission was formed on 31 March 2005. That's 45 days before the election. This, in our opinion, was therefore too little time to, at least the elections were well organized, but it was too little time for these elections to be made up of quality and preparation. It was also the case with the presidential elections when the State Election Commission was appointed by the Constitutional Court also on 11 November 2004, which was 52 days before the election. So what we warned was that between these two choices, there was actually one gap that could be used in another way that many of the mistakes that occurred, or the problems that occurred during the elections to be removed, but that did not happen. The process was simply interrupted. And therefore, we support the intensification of the formation of the State Election Commission and therefore on the principle itself that the Government declares, with the basic objective of establishing the commission as a permanent, independent and expert body, which will have a strictly defined composition of the powers relating to the implementation of the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and other elections. So we agree, therefore, that these intensities, those roles that are indicated to do so, but to what we have a serious observation that is therefore the composition of this Committee itself which, unlike that of my proposal which he supported and the IDS Club is something different. So the legislator suggests that the commission has five members. So the president is two vice presidents and two members elected by the parliament by a majority vote. We agree, therefore, that these members of the commission must be top experts in this profession. That they must not be members of any political party and that they were not or are not candidates in the elections. But we think, therefore, that this very essence, that this commission should be independent and professional in a way that is analysing Article 7 which therefore speaks of one vice-president, one member being elected on a proposal from the majority political party or coalition, and the other vice-president and another member on the proposal of opposition political parties. So of the 5 members of the State Election Commission, 4 members would be even though they should not be directly involved in any political party, even 4 articles, members of the Committee would in some way be politically engaged. At least they are experts, but as soon as they are proposed by some political options, they must in some way represent that political option and represent it in the State Election Commission. And we know what the election is. We know what a delicate question it is, what problems there were in the election especially when the results were even. When it comes to an eternal place. Here we witness daily that some, some representative bodies, are formed at the border of physical conflicts, right? When fighting for power we think it is not good and it would be a more acceptable solution to what I have proposed in my law that the State Commission has a permanent and expanded composition. So the constant composition that would be, my suggestion is that it be 7 members. These 7 members could be experts under the same criteria, but independent experts and this group of experts could therefore effectively and independently manage the electoral system and reforms in our election process. In order to ensure the supervision of political parties, therefore, there is an extended composition of the six-member committee. So these 6 members would be 3 with one political option, 3 with another policy option, and they would therefore change every 4 years. That option therefore exists now in the Law of Elections but it has not yet been brought to life yet, so that extended composition does not seem to me chosen, and I think it would be a good idea for it to function as well. So we think that this solution, which was therefore proposed to this House a few months ago, would be more quality in that sense, therefore, to preserve the independence of the State Election Commission. In addition, there is still a question of these members proposed by the majority or opposition options. They'd also have an eight-year term. Given that the political mandate in the Parliament lasts for a maximum of 4 years, the question therefore arises if there is a change in how much power there is, how credible is the relationship between the forces that were at the beginning of the mandate and the relationship of power after 8 years. This relationship of power often or probably would not therefore maintain a real situation. We still have one comment. I, in my law, provided for in Article 20, that since the Croatian Parliament chooses members of the National Election Commission that the Croatian Parliament also has an impact on the work of the National Election Commission. Not direct but indirect or indirect. In this regard, the State Election Commission shall submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on its work once a year as well as after the elections or referendums held at the state level. I think it should be built into this law. That the Parliament therefore has feedback because this directly concerns the Parliament itself on what is happening in the reform of our electoral system and therefore makes its remarks that the state election commission can or does not have to accept but it would be good for the Parliament to be involved in this process in any case. So to conclude, the IDS club therefore supports the proposal's intention to form a State Election Commission, there are real needs for this, but we suggest that the composition of the State Election Commission itself be resolved in a different way in order to truly achieve independence, on its own, so the efficiency and expertise of the State Election Commission, which we think such a composition as the Proposer proposes, cannot be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42264	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go. ... You've changed? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42265	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will in principle support this proposal and it is good that this law has been sent by the Government in a regular procedure, because we believe that, through the first reading of the law, something is to be fixed. Namely, the Croatian Peasant Party has repeatedly pointed out today, asked that we finally get one professional state body to conduct the elections, but not only to conduct the elections, namely we constantly sought a body that will carry out all those actions that are equally important as the electoral actions permanently, i.e. All the time. And on this occasion, I would like to point out that we will finally get one state body that will be able to take care not only of electoral legislation but of what may be even more important at the moment, and these are lists of voters. We have not had such a body so far, and I think this is the right opportunity for this state commission to finally start dealing with these issues. What is important is that we also pointed out that indeed not only the judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia but also the judges of the county and municipal courts who were engaged all the time in the conduct of the elections were really hard to reconcile their tasks in courts with their tasks in the elections, taking part in the work of the election whether the State Election Commission of the County or the Municipal Election Commission. I also point out that, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club, it is not primarily important that the number of members of the State Election Commission, but that the legislator should also take particular care of it, namely that the number made by the president, two vice-presidents and two members of the State Election Commission, so his permanent composition and all those people who will be doing this in the counties, or the City of Zagreb, is one too small number and should not be limited here, probably the promoter had in mind the means to spend, just that. I don't think that's primarily important. What I find important here to highlight is several complaints of principle and several objections of the formal, above all nomotechnical nature. We are truly happy to see the text in which the State Election Commission is as a permanent body, becoming an expert body that should be outside the influence of any policy. It is therefore somewhat illogical or unusual to me that the provision of Article 7 of the same law, under which the president, or vice presidents, should be proposed by the ruling political party or the political opposition in the Croatian Parliament. If we go to an expert body that is completely independent of any policy, and the State Election Commission must indeed be in its essence, then it would be quite logical, and this Assembly has this, that the Committee of the Croatian Parliament for Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs simply proposes to the Croatian Assembly or to specify the competent working body as proposing whether for the president, vice president or members it is all one thing. I would suggest that if one independent political body is really going to do so by the Parliament's authorities. If it is going crazy, then a semi-political body is really normal for either the political opposition or the ruling political party to do so, so I suggest to the Proposer to decide on such or such an option. If an independent expert body is decided, there is no need to write in Article 7 that political parties do so but the majority or opposition do so. Second, in the light of a clean nomochnik, they should in any event comply with the provision of Articles 5 and 8 where the conditions to be met by persons wishing to be president or members of the Election Commission are laid down. Well, I don't see any differences except for so much as in Article 8 except the legal reference and the political profession. I think that the members of the State Election Commission should have the same legal training or general education as the President does because I do not see the difference between the President of the National Election Commission and members of the Election Commission and with regard to his knowledge, and for God's sake and his powers. I think it is really unnecessary to prescribe different conditions for a member of the National Election Commission and different for the president. There's really no need. The second thing, if we really want one professional body, and I think that's what you want, then it's also unnecessary in Article 10 to write that the same person can be selected at most twice for a member or president of the National Election Commission. If it is a professional body, and it is here in this case, then it is necessary not to limit the number of years or mandates but simply to limit those general conditions of labour law that exist for all Croatian citizens as regards working relationship in the general sense of the word. It is evident that we want an independent expert body to conduct not only elections but all actions. Second, nomotechnics, Article 15(2). On the date of the decision to resolve after the request for resolution has been made, the term of office shall cease. Not after the decision-making day, but on the date of entry into force of the decision. And what might be the most important thing I want to say here, it seems to me that this is a bit undernourished text. I would suggest to the Proposer that for the second reading of this law, the precise regulations to be adopted by the Government, in particular by the Commission's regulation, which are adopted by the competent authorities. Ministrys, i.e. Heads of State Administration, which are so-called Rules, or proverbs. This should be specified exactly as in any text of the law and in this text. First, which questions will be addressed by sublegal regulations and by who. We once agreed that it was a good parliamentary practice that in the very text of the law, although this is about first reading, it specifically states which regulations will be adopted under this regulation, who adopts them and what will be regulated by them. So we repeat, the Croatian Peasant Club welcomes this proposal. It believes that perhaps the composition of the State Election Commission is too small, suggests that this text, which it considers to be dilated, suggests to the applicant that since there is a single independent state body to be removed, it is indeed an expert body and that, in that case, the Croatian Peasant Party Club, if the Proposer accepts these proposals, is ready to support the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42266	Thank you very much. SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42267	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Palaric, representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club also generally supports this Bill on the State Election Commission by sharing an opinion, but until the final princes, what it has just said on behalf of the Government, Mr Palaric, and in the wake of the demands and the frequent demands of the representative of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, that judges are deprived of this difficult job for them, which separates them from their daily affairs, especially when they need to solve a whole series of delays and when the entire judicial reform is ultimately taking place through their own, or when they are the ones who have to implement the judicial reform. From that point of view, therefore, it is one basic motive, as we have now heard from the government's representative, why it is just going into a bill like this where it has been assessed quite justified that we too need a permanent state election commission. That this is more, therefore, in no way when, even if the judges were not burdened as they are right now, such as they have been for many years and as they will be for many years, that the frequency of the elections requires a permanent Electoral Commission in Croatia. But why don't we go to the final conjecture, then, exactly what motivated us, so we can get the judges out of the way. And see what we've done? We've scattered only a few of them, on the fingers of one hand we can count them, mostly several Supreme Court judges, several judges of the County Court. There are no 5, 6, 7 who were engaged in the DIP, in the State Election Commission, and a whole series of judges, 10 and 10 judges, if not 100 are still engaged, by the Municipal and County Court at local level. So I don't see that logic then, Government. So, what am I saying? Yes, and the election committees in the local self-government units don't have to be permanent because it would cost a lot, but the judge should, if that's motive and with it the government is right to come out, but in the end, he doesn't respect it, and then it turns out he's jumping into his own mouth. Okay, well, I'm not gonna be hard on you, so let's just say, it's not the first time or the last time. But then we should, if we're doing it like that, and there's no obstacle to doing it, then we should be consistent here. So, I'd like to pray, here on behalf of the SDP Club, that the motionary takes care of it himself. Because when Mr. Ivica Crnić, then the President of the Supreme Court said so, then he had in mind the great involvement of the judges of the Municipal and the County Court who, after several months, had at least a month or two of their regular affairs, and you can think of the parties who knocked on the door to schedule the debate. Here in front of the Supreme Court when we have people from the Supreme Court at the State Election Commission who very rarely only have council meetings, when they see parties or defendants. They do not judge the debates, so they did not even create such an impatience, or anxiety among the citizens. Therefore, we have not fulfilled what the Government has announced, that this bill deprives us, that judges deprive themselves of these unnecessary, for them, duties. We in the SDP Club hold that in Croatia, this is also an assessment of all the public, there is one crisis of responsibility for everyone and at all levels. And that we are then as state officials in power as parliamentarians first called on to take great care of it, in particular to find such legislative solutions that will make it known to the least possible extent. As the government imagines this original commission here, it is primarily intended as a council, as a committee of five, but in further provisions we will find out that it has, that it is professional, that it has the salary of a state official, but look. It's his only profession, but he's not required. It's something that causes the people to be seduced. How is this term not binding? Well, the representative of the sea, he may or may not have to come, without any conjecture to the session. So that's something that I'm reading, not to be given somehow, but explicitly, it's in the law, and it can't stand. The State Election Commission, if paid for it, if it's his only job and it needs to be his only job because it's professionals, then they can't let the law be allowed and left to be at the will of more or less of their consciousness than we have to build a system that will be efficient in the everyday personnel combination. So that it does not depend now on this assembly of parliaments who will choose a five who is so conscious, who do not need special instructions from the law that he performs his duty. However, here, it can happen by these standards because it is not mandatory and there is no sanction for it, nor is there a mechanism that the Assembly does not respond to this work because it does not do its job, and it receives the salary, to call it off at all. I don't think we can afford that. She often wonders here, they're independent people, whether they're here, whether we're going to adopt this suggestion that comes from the HSS Club, even though I think it's well solved in Article 7. That it doesn't matter who he proposes and that it's perfectly logical that parties propose certain people, but I'm saying, in any case, it can't be at the will of the chosen people to decide for themselves how they behave. Then why the law? And I'm saying, especially if it's still a paid job, if it's their only profession, then it's their place to have them here and to be recalled or sanctioned in an adequate way unless they're doing their job. Likewise, here we see in the law, that the law hides again, enables, I don't say it's in bad intentions, but exactly following what happens in reality then through this reality we have to look at the laws. And what and how to fix in those laws. The commission should be a committee of five, not one amorphous body where everyone's responsibility is hidden, where this commission would decide only most of those who come. So it's supposed to be in the composition, that the composition of the commission is made up of 5 members, but that can work already from, with 3 members. And so it can happen to us that all election results in the Republic of Croatia are decided by two members. It's perfectly legitimate, and according to this bill of ours, if it's adopted. I don't think anyone in this House agrees and that, if it's a duty, I repeat again, those five must be. It's similar to our judge council. That's why there's a council of three and a council of five. In that case, in the event of a disease, justified absences should also be provided for in the replacement. What I think is also very important because it's going to be professionalized, that's the whole point of the law, we shouldn't be here to rewrite what's worst in our Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, where the first motive and the promoter of the law was that officials of the state are professionalized and that they can't perform any other duty. Somehow quite logically, however, it became possible for scientists to do so, and then the fact that they can also do so by those who do research and professional work, and the professional work is every work. Because if he's not professional, if someone's doing an unprofessional and most banal job he's questioning, he can't actually be considered a real job at all. Therefore, from this professionalization, we have created this bill optionally and that the work in the commission can also be done by those who are all employed and elsewhere. So, professors of law school, professional work, which means lawyers, law firms, companies, etc., that's not the law's intensities, and this should be erased because this is completely unnecessary, i.e. creating confusion. So that these people would have the exact 2, 3 salaries and that man who deals with the professional work that the lawyer or lawyer there receives the salary is hired there must come, but this DIP, the State Election Commission it is not binding to him, but surely it would not have with all your conscience or unconsciousness better said, would not forget to come here at the register and ask for your payment. And then we'd be surprised at that, that kind of behavior, that kind of behavior ourselves, that kind of thing isn't rare in the Republic of Croatia, and we just have to stop it, that's our job here to predict these situations and to spot them. Next, I think it's very vague, there's no responsibility for these people and we're often responsible for the controls of those who are invited to control someone else. I don't think it's a good thing that here as one condition of termination of the term of office, we generally refer to their will when he asks for a solution when his will so happens that he will no longer do so until he breaks the law, when he knowingly violates the law when he mocks all of Croatia and all of its citizens, therefore we have no single norms. He was chosen he is independent, and we often know how independence is created in Croatia, because these people who have sublegal independence often find themselves independent of the law and often live logic. Therefore, it is not enough here that it is only in case he is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than six months that it is only a condition to resolve him. However, it is necessary to specify a whole series of behaviours that not only must be criminal, that such a person who is unworthy to conduct the elections because, as our prime minister said, the elections are always one ceremony of democracy, and then we cannot allow it to be ridiculed. Similarly, we see the provision of Article 26 that the Commission’s resources are available to the President of the Commission, I think that this provision Article 2 of Article 26 is quite unnecessary, that it is sufficient to say that it is only authorised to determine and distribute the way it is used, as sublegal acts require it, because the government is not considered to have it, it is only there as a proxies working and implementing the Law and nothing more. This would suggest that he only deploys the appropriations according to his own discretion and will. I also don't think that we need to build up a administration here, so professional services can be used well, so from our existing large and oversized administrative apparatus, if it's very necessary, but it's aware of the least possible measure because we have here in what way I suggest that a large professional commission service in order to doubtless and damage not only the budget, we don't have so much over the need and we're constantly in a verbal communication to the citizens how we're going to reduce red tape. And something else I have to mention, the qualities of a person, that it is a legal or political profession, that knows the political electoral system there's nothing to object to, although it doesn't necessarily have to be political or legal professions, that it has practical knowledge of the conduct of elections. Well, I don't know which person he is, and he's a lawyer, and he has practical skills, and that's not the kind of judges that this is, at least from the State Election Commission, we're eliminating. Therefore, we suggest that in the best of intentions, the Proposer thinks about this by the end of the process of eliminating judges from the electoral process because it is really difficult for them because in this way we have only found an excuse but we have not implemented what we are referring to and on a whole series of these elements that must really sharpen the responsibility of these people who will certainly not pay small wages for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42268	Thank you. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42269	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. The Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia does not have a P.Z.E. code. but we can actually say that by adopting it in any case in our legislation we are introducing those traditions and those values of highly developed countries. In any case, this Law is one step forward in the organisation of our choices and throughout our electoral system because it gives us a commission as one permanent, independent and professional state body. What we can say so far had the State Election Commission both independently and professionally but we didn't have it as a permanent body, because I think all of these elections that have been held in the Republic of Croatia have received positive assessments, there have never been significant incidents or any objections to the elections so far. This only professionalises and introduces one state body, one commission that will deal exclusively with the elections because indeed the elections are not regular anymore, but given the number of units of local self-government, all kinds of things are happening on the ground, and extraordinary elections are being held. That is why it is necessary to have the State Election Commission as a permanent body, a body that will take care of that entire electoral infrastructure and when there is no choice. The elections when we look at them are carried not only by state-level state committees, not only by county, city and municipality level, but actually by election holders are small people who are not seen here, and this is the entire infrastructure of professional people who work by county, by cities, by municipalities, by county offices within the framework of the state administration who actually do all those difficult and complex jobs, administrative and who do it very well by doing the elections in a smooth and correct manner. This is one top of the pyramid where we will get a body that will for 4 years make sure that this infrastructure is preserved and that it is improved when elections come to carry out as high as possible, as professionally as possible. What matters here was the words that we get, of course we get these five new state officials that we don't have so far, of course this means a certain cost to our budget, which is clearly and said here, but I don't think we should look at it that way. In any case, we must preserve and further develop this infrastructure electoral and through the professional service that this election commission will have not only at the centre of the electoral commission in Zagreb but which it will have at the headquarters of the county, we must preserve these people and we must be prepared when elections come to make them as effective as possible more professionally possible. And that's why we support this law that's just going after it, and we totally agree that at the time of the election, we don't have to burden our judiciary with the conduct of the elections, and that's why this law is being proposed. As a matter of fact, what we would not say is more like the first reading of the debate until the second reading was put forward by this Rules of Procedure and related to the professional commission service. In the professional service of the commission, we see that the commission has a professional service which is established to carry out professional tasks in the section of the commission and professional affairs in relation to the holding of a list of voters and of administrative and technical services, which enables the exercise of the commission to act on a regular and uninterrupted basis. Now, the internal organisation of the professional service regulates the internal structure and mode of work and the professional service, determines jobs and job description, the exact number of employees and subsistences, the way in which the dislocated officials work in the counties, and the professional and other conditions. According to the proposal for this law, the Commission shall adopt a majority vote by all members. Here I think you need to be careful not to turn it into one expansion and the awakening of the administration. I think we need to keep in mind those people who are in all elections and employees of our county offices who at some point mean when elections are being held and held can also do these jobs with regular jobs, so that there should not be too much expansion of that administration and that kind of structure of people who do so. This I fully agree that it is necessary in every county to have one man who actually has to take care of that network of people but to spread that network too much in order not to burden the budget I don't think we should. Judges should, in any case, spare these jobs because really when elections they are exposed to these jobs and during that time, of course their files stand, the backlogs pile up, the backlogs go, their judicial obligations stand, no one solves them. And for all these reasons, we welcome the adoption of this law. That law has been talked about a lot, as we can see, and fellow Pavlic went as an advocate with his bill here but here we finally got that this government is proposing this law and we're going to support it anyway because we think that the solutions that are being offered here in the law are good. As for this Rules of Procedure itself and as regards the Internal Service Regulation, I think that, until the second reading, it should be discussed that the institution of granting consent to this Regulation should be established either by the Government or by the relevant parliamentary committee or even by the Rules of Procedure on Labour because it says that the rules of procedure in accordance with these laws and other laws governing the electoral system can be regulated by all other issues of importance for the work of the commission. This can often be very important, very important issues that I would not like to interpret if through agreement we would like to influence and narrow this independence of the commission but in any case it would be good to give our opinion through the public consent institute at least the competent parliamentary committee. I repeat, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law because this law is one step forward, this law is the approximation of Croatia's traditions and liquids of modern European states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42270	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, the esteemed representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42271	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! Before I say a few words about HNS PGS's views on this law, I would like to clarify one thing. In fact, a while ago, about five, six months ago, the Croatian People's Party proposed the Law on Lists of Voters to this Parliament. That law has entered the procedure, it has not, of course, passed as it already goes with opposition proposals. However, the fact that the electoral laws are given first and from where the pyramid is beginning to build something speaks about the government's relationship to the elections, and according to which sovereignty lies in this country, who is the deciding factor. Obviously, if it moves from the electoral commission, if it moves from the election of local regional and similar self-government leaders, sovereignty does not lie on voters but on the political elite. It's a message. I know that message is not conscious but it stems from the very essence of launching this thing. I mean, the first law that we were supposed to discuss was supposed to be the Law on Lists of Voters, because the lists of voters in the state definitely don't work out, every forum is set up. Not even lists of majority voters and even fewer lists of national minorities, especially the Serb national minority. Well, whatever. The intention of this law is good and we support this intention and we will support it in the vote. This should be discussed, such a law should be passed, it is essential for the better functioning of the electoral system in the Republic of Croatia and essentially so that members of the State Election Commission are professionals. And we've talked about this in this House a few times already. It seems to me that a consensus has actually been reached on this, so it shouldn't be repeated. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we have so many choices, each so many elections happen that such a body cannot function on a volunteer basis and even less on the basis of these jobs being occupied by judges of the Supreme Court and not doing their job. Therefore, we welcome the government's intention and such a proposal. The other thing is the professionalization of the secretary or the awakening of the administration, the awakening of the administration. You'll say it's not that much, it's now how many counties there are 20 secretaries plus Zagreb 21 and 21 clerks more or less. Well, it is 21 clerks more or less but there is 21 and there is 210, there is 220, the budget is spent on the operation of the apparatus more and more. It seems to me that it is completely unnecessary and that the law should delete the secretaries of the county as professionals because the explanation that those quotes will take care of the voters' lists between the individual elections is not standing at all. If things are arranged, if they are computerised, if a connection is established, an electronic connection between individual authorities of the state administration, such as the Ministry of Interior, such as magistrates, city administrations, etc. So, if the databases under certain conditions are available to everyone and if there is a reporting obligation, about changes in these databases then such a professional seems completely unnecessary to me. Who will be responsible for this list of voters? We think that the State Election Commission is exactly the kind of professional professional body that can and should be taken into account and held accountable for the fact that the list of voters corresponds to the real state that we do not have political electoral constraints that some places have more voters than residents, and similar to what we have already seen and discussed. A long term is proposed. The long term is good, it also provides security in changing political options in power, which is good or what would be good if people came to that body only with their expertise, abilities, intelligence and honesty. If they come by political will of these or those options, then they can, and that's what our political practice confirms to us. It may happen, imagine the situation for the current government to propose two, the current opposition to propose its two, and in the next election let the third party be the power. And the current government and the current opposition are the opposition. ... I'm not afraid, but it's possible. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's necessary for political options to get involved in choosing these people in such a direct way. They will interfere with the very fact that their choice will pass through Parliament. And it's already clear who's going to win the primate is you. Because even according to this proposal, primate definitely has power. I propose one vice president and one member, and a parliament with a certain political option has the authority to propose a president. So three suggest power practically. I do not understand why the text of the law includes a provision that the State Election Commission can make decisions for the majority of the members present. That's five professionals. It's to be expected that it will be five top professionals, people who will do this job knowingly, honestly, wisely, that they will be at work and so on. I don't understand how the situation can happen now that one of those top professionals we're going to choose here doesn't come to work. And it's his job to be at a session of the State Election Commission. So he doesn't come to work, and then there's three of them, and that's decided by two, and here's the thing. I think it should simply be removed from the bill because there's no reason to stand. We have five professionals. These five professionals should choose to come to work and choose to make decisions as they already think smart professionals should. There's also a question of impeachment. This Parliament is setting these people up. The logic of the matter states that it is perfectly impossible for this Parliament to, in a certain way and in a certain procedure, replace the Prime Minister, that this Parliament can, in a certain way and by a certain procedure, initiate a procedure for changing the president of the state without being able to do so with, for the members of the National Election Commission. If there is a concern that people would, then because of fear of what will happen in a few years, actually give up accepting such a duty, I don't think it can just stand there on condition that they are top professionals. On condition that these are people who really know what they're doing so that even in a situation where there's a political option that thinks they need to be changed so that they can be found on the road? So what kind of top-notch professionals are they? I think that kind of thinking should be thrown out of our heads and out of our motions. Anyone who has been chosen must be able and removed from the position he is elected. Otherwise, a complete system doesn't work. So far, they were mostly Supreme Court judges. So, among other things, people of confirmed integrity, confirmed expertise for which it was actually unquestionable. No one has ever, ever heard of anyone asking their question, their honesty and even the possibility of making a decision that would conflict with the common sense and with the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We now choose people from a wide range of waists. New people. What we can guarantee for these people is that in the next 8 years, 100% of all five will do their job perfectly and there will be absolutely no need to intervene this House. I don't think that's a good logic and that the bill should kick her out. All in all, the Croatian People's Party will support the proposal for this Act to go into further procedure and that within a reasonable period we get the Law on the State Election Commission once again appeal to us that the lists of voters who will be in charge of this commission are not settled, do not work and that this is the first and basic thing we should settle if we want to have fair elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42272	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote by the respected colleague Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42273	... Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Vujanić, who makes a good proposal at first, which is that in making decisions there must always be the presence of all five members of the Committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That seems great at first, but what about situations, and it's possible that some of the members will be sick then we'll block the decision-making process and we know that the deadlines are short and that it has to be made immediately. So we need to stand in line, but to prevent this possibility of blocking the commission's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42274	I don't know how much opinion that is, and how much correction of an incorrect quote but okay. Dear fellow Dragutin Pukleš on behalf of the Retirement Party Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42275	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor! The conduct of the elections in a way that they are procedurally high quality, democratic, correct and legal is a very important issue and that is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has seen and has sent to the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for a Law on the State Election Commission. It is well assessed in this proposal that the provisions governing the competent National Election Commission should be united in one place in the whole of the law as opposed to the practice so far when it has been segregated in several laws, which form state electoral legislation. It is good and important to this Law we propose establishing the Commission as a permanent independent expert body, which is also a strictly defined composition and guidance for the implementation of the elections, and this will ensure a better quality conduct of the elections at all levels. The issues of the composition of the commission, the way the president, the vice-president and the members of the commission, the competences, the internal structure and other issues are also well resolved. By saying that the provisions in Article 7 relating to the way candidates are proposed or chosen, we consider that they are not relevant because if it is a professional independent working body, then it is not a significant issue at all and should not be, and that is also true of the issue of the limitations of the mandate. It is expected that these exposed solutions will make election procedures more qualitative, so the Croatian party will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42276	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the HSP Club, dear colleague Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42277	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. The HSP Club is pleasantly surprised by the content and quality of this Law, which is in the first reading compared to the laws in this area, meaning the electoral legislation that the Government has delivered to us so far because they have been unedited and have been adopted in an emergency procedure. And we know ourselves that this is a big problem because we have brought around 83% of the legal texts in this assembly so far, in an urgent procedure, which makes it impossible for them to simulate and implement themselves, which is one of the problems and the work of this calls out for the Parliament. And that's why, I say, we're pleasantly surprised by the fact that the law is quite correct. Since the first reading is also, principles are properly set. This is the principle of independence, the expertise of this National Election Commission. We hope, all of us have pointed out, that by adopting and meaning the creation of a professional State Election Commission, it will not be attended by judges of the Supreme Court, or by county courts, as well as by judicial officials. And that it was one of the reasons why the judiciary didn't work, that it would now reflect at least one percent on the efficiency of the work, at least for these levels where they were. And we should also implement this principle for all elections. Normally, once again, it must be taken into account that a small number would be permanent, and the rest would be the ones who would be occasional if certain elections were to be held already for, depending on which area it is. Yet, we feel that the Law will need to be completed by second reading in certain provisions. The first thing is that we agree even with this proposal, in which way members of the State Election Commission will be elected. And here I disagree with the particular proposals that came from the same lines of opposition, that we should go to the version of all 5 professionals without the influence of the opposition. Because if such a solution is accepted, then the ruling majority will use it and will appoint their entire expert commission, and in this way at least allow that part of the opposition to have influence. And normally, the most important criterion is the expertise that needs to be prescribed by law, that it can also be a person who has, who has graduated from law school or something like that. Let's just say there's a state and professional exam and some other conditions that have been laid down or determined so that in this political outwitting, this situation can't happen that in this State Commission there's going to be a similarity because it should always be predicted if someone was a member who, for example, was a member of the election of the president of the state of the political party, that he could no longer be a member on the day of his appointment, for example, that political party, any political party in which he was. That's what we have in other laws. Also related to decision-making, in the part where the commission decides, normally that everyone should be present always because it is a professional body, in decision-making, but we must put it in the rule that they must always be present and make decisions. So all five must be present, now how are you going to bring in a few times that's going to be seen according to the state of things. But it's important, not to say that it has to always be all 5 present, because that's how we're going to make decisions if we say it has to be all 5. One's sick, broke a leg, then what? And the deadlines are short, we know what the deadlines are, that the deadline is 24 hours, so it's going to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, we need to simulate the solutions that are possible in order to predict how and how they will be done. As far as professional service is concerned, we need it right now, we know that Perkins's system of one man has grown, that service of his to 400, 500 people. This is how we need to be afraid in the wake of the administration, and that is why the professional service must be the necessary professional service. It should also be possible for the competent board of the Croatian Parliament to agree on the management of the internal organisation of the professional service. But normally, there should always be a Government of Influence, as well as a Croatian Assembly itself concerning the funds that will be secured in that part. It's a good thing and good news is that this State Election Commission will take care of the voters' lists. We know for ourselves what our situation is in this area and that it is quite messy. We stopped to oppose the IDS with the law that was passed before these local elections, so we had buses coming again. We know for ourselves that many towns and municipalities in Croatia have more in the list of voters than they have the number of residents according to the list that was also there. It is obvious that this should be resolved and it is good that this will now be done by the State Election Commission, but we also need to be precise and precise when they are concluded before the vote of voters. To know exactly how much will come out, who is in that list, and possibly overlook the possibility that someone who is here for the sake of it, but I'm just saying because of the error of the competent state body is not listed in the list of voters, to allow it to exercise that right. In order not to get back to that variant that everyone starts signing up and checking out before the elections and we get to what we already have, which means that certain municipalities and cities, take only Makarska and how many Vrgorac municipalities, that they have more people in the list of voters than in the census. And we know that the question was before these local elections and the secretary of state, so he said there was a knock on the population list, so there were no people inside, so then they didn't normally come back to register. Therefore, it should be specified and arranged so that such or similar situations do not take place in the future. It's also important to arrange the recall method. Look, as we each have, let's say, for the president of the state, it's arranged for both appointments and all, but the way you call it off. This should be done on all teams when and under what conditions, but precisely prescribed, it is possible to recall any member of this, for example, the State Election Commission. Is it legally condemned, say, punishment over six months and some other cases similar, but exactly which ones are specific. Not that it's a politically determining situation. And we don't need to be afraid of this situation, and it takes 8 years for these members to be given the same security. We know that that's the case with judges in the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. Because he automatically as soon as he enters that body he must not deal with politics, he must be meaning, and according to the criteria of expertise that we will determine automatically we will get. That was your situation, so it wasn't just, this isn't, but it's an ex-consumption, they called it the Constitutional Court. You know the same situation, same as those principles, but they all met those basic criteria of expertise. Therefore, these same situations should not be feared. Therefore, it will still need to be done in order to have this Law immediately. Now, maybe a chahl should think about whether or not there'll be even seven members. Because one option can happen that when we adopt this Law ourselves, when it comes to going to appointing, we will not be able to agree on, say, these numbers of members. The ruling majority who has a share and an opposition. We've already had these cases with that Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, so maybe it's even a good version of a fellow to be seven members, three oppositions, three ruling ones, so that the principle of appointing would be easier. So, it's easy to come, you have to think about it in the future. We make this law, say, final in the second reading and then the course and procedure of appointment goes. If there's no deal with that body, the old one doesn't exist, and we know that every day there's a crisis, so some extraordinary choices are always under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42278	Thank you. It's on behalf of the SDSS Club, dear colleague Pupovac. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's my friend Ingrid Antičević-Marinović's turn. She's gone. It's my dear fellow Stazic's turn. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For a long time, NGOs have been warning above all that GONG should go to this solution to a permanent professional election commission. Such an opinion was also the longtime president of the State Election Commission, who was certainly acting as Supreme Court President, Mr Crnic. There are more reasons for this being the practice in most democratic countries, so there is no reason why Croatia should not follow such a practice. Secondly, judges are already burdened with a bunch of unsolved files and if they have to work in the State Election Commission, then they don't get to do their basic judicial work and then the files are even more piling up and the third thing is really not every four years. The State Election Commission must oversee the work of election committees at lower levels and local elections are permanent, always happening somewhere, always disbanding a congregation, if, as in Karlovac, 20 thousand kunas per month do not buy a councilman, in which case there is no choice, because 20 thousand kunas per month paid by the HDZ to the other party are totally illegal, in order to have most, prevents a normal and natural solution to the new elections. Now that's what I think everyone agrees that the State Election Commission as a permanent working body should exist. Now it's only a matter of time before that happens. It seems to me that this time, which has been chosen, is not consistent, is not elegant, and then, of course, it enables a whole series of objections that have already been raised here by colleagues, saying on behalf of clubs, and it is hardly possible to fix it even if all these objections are respected. Perhaps it was necessary to go a simpler way to pass a special Law on the conduct of elections, meaning both parliamentary and presidential and local ones, which would determine the procedure. And then special laws would because it was still a political decision on parliamentary elections they would determine which electoral system would be used to elect the presidents of the Republic and the representative bodies. But the implementing law should be the same for all types of elections, especially when the State Election Commission, because that is, the intensity of this electoral commission that will be established by this Act will implement and oversee all three types of elections. If it had gone that way, what happened in this Law wouldn't have happened, which is when we look at Chapter 4. The Commission's work of Article 11 of the Law is adopted on the State Election Commission and is not told anywhere what is the basic task, which is why there is a state electoral commission. Thus, it says in Article 11 above, with regard to the organisation and supervision of the implementation of elections and referendums, the commission also carries out the following tasks, which are taxed further by those less important next jobs and the basic business is not worked out. For example, there is nothing about the State Election Commission publishing the results of the election, which is one of its important tasks. In order to issue mandatory instructions on the implementation of the elections, so our electoral laws and everything should be written in the implementing law, our electoral laws are unedited, they are like axes, and then the State Election Commission, from election to election, has to publish mandatory instructions, about regulating the polling post, about how to access the polling post, about a whole series of important things, the procedural things that all newspapers must publish from election to election, must be read on radio and television and mandatory instructions. Instead of those mandatory instructions being repeated, they are always the same as those entered into one implementing electoral law. So they wouldn't have to, they'd get rid of the Electoral Commission of a boring and unnecessary job to do the same job from election to election, issuing mandatory instructions. There is nothing said that the electoral commission, for example, sets out polling stations and appoints election committees, to monitor the irregularity of electoral promotion, because it is one of its essential tasks but it is from the article that is now here, namely, three articles here, that cease to apply when this Law, Articles 45, 46 and 47 enters into force. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, Article 48 of the Law states something about the division of the State Election Commission, and now this is about the part of the electoral commission remaining in that law and there is no such thing in the Law on the State Election Commission, it is one messy situation that could have avoided access to a draft implementing law. It is said here that the State Election Commission, with matters relating to the organisation of the elections, does not say anything about the business of the organisation of the business. The election is one serious process, you can't say it through half a sentence. The State Election Commission is organising elections, we know, but how it organizes, but what it must do to ensure that these elections are organised. And it is said further, therefore, with the organisation and control of the elections, which consists of this oversight, whether the State Election Commission has the right to cancel the results at a polling post, whether it is a control or a control relating to the campaign or whether it is a control relating to the lists of voters or whether it is a control relating to the registration of a list, orderly deadlines, all of which are the powers of the State Election Commission. These aren't irrelevant things, we've had in the last presidential election a case of serious election fraud. Watch out, the elections are canceled in some places, the polling stations cancel out, and the others spend the second if there is an extra vote in the box. But if 100 voters come to that polling station that have already used their rights in another polling post, nothing happens. Nothing's happening, the election doesn't cancel out. Among other things, it would have to be written that the State Election Commission has the obligation to file a criminal application for an electoral fraud if it found that one voter voted twice, or twice, in two polling stations. It means he voted again. This is a serious criminal offence for which the State Election Commission, if it is already carrying out sea surveillance by force of the law, would have to file a criminal report to the State's Attorney's office. There's nothing in this law. This law is not undernourished but in it from the important things that the State Election Commission should do does not write but absolutely nothing. It says, what does it say? That it provides opinions and guidelines for the addition and improvement of electoral legislation. Well, it's not his basic function, so it's not his advisory body. It gives an opinion and guidance. Well, let him give, well, it doesn't matter at all or it doesn't matter at all. Most of the decisions here have already been made. It is absolutely unacceptable that one body, such an important body that decides on such important things as elections, can decide most votes. Okay, that's where the question is now, and what if someone gets sick? Well, let's work it out, let's give it a chance to invite the president, one of the county election committees, in exchange, by the decision of those who stayed healthy in there so that they can complete themselves. I mean, well, there are solutions, but in any case, you can't leave it the way it is to decide most, most of them five is three. When the three decide, then two votes are enough and would therefore be decided by two votes. That's absolutely unacceptable. So, please, maybe in another procedure, but let's just think about doing it a little bit more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42280	Thank you, fellow Stazic. It's time for my dear colleague, Joseph Leco. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Palaric, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs! To discuss a law that is part of a law affecting the conduct of elections in a country, therefore, is to discuss one part of the whole problem. Already in the introduction, the government's representatives and many members and representatives of clubs pointed out, in my opinion, an unimportant matter for the successful conduct of the elections to free judges from being members of the Electoral State Commission. If that was the goal of passing the law, then the problem is easily solved. Of course, I don't think that's the point and it shouldn't be within the scope of the Electoral State Commission Act. We must go from the fact that citizens are dissatisfied with how their right to vote and elect their representatives to power, to representative bodies that they are dissatisfied with how that vote after the election is promoted. They don't decide how it should be decided. All after the election game and trade lead to dissatisfaction or abstinence of the electoral body. So it's not a problem that judges are burdened and that's not why courts are slow to judge. My second observation is why the law in general does not solve the electoral commissions when they are appointed independently under the bill. One of the tasks under the bill is that the State Election Commission appoints election committees of county, towns and municipalities. And imagine that reverse without even a proposal from the county, city or council of the municipality. So centralization in this part of absolute for the benefit of the state. Is this a mistrust with the county council, the city council, the city council, the municipal council. Absolutely. If we add this to the fact that this could be one of the reasons why this kind of administration is needed, why would the Electoral State Commission have so much administration then I could even say that the employment in Croatia is increased rather than the need to solve the problems we have seen regarding the elections and the electoral system as a whole. I therefore believe that Article 7 should establish that the appointment is in the section of the National Election Commission, but on the proposal of the local and regional units parliaments, as we say in the jargon. Another thing that should be seen within the framework of the committee's work. Take care of the legality and regularity of driving and updating the list of voters. One of the important tasks of the state administration is to keep lists of voters legally and cannot be excluded from the responsibility for the legality of the conduct of the voter list, as this is already already identified as the tasks of that body in the basic law. This would already be that two bodies at the same state level are taking the same care and could be a conflict of jurisdiction. Someone here has already mentioned the State Election Commission and all the committees for the area to be established must, in my opinion, conclude the list of voters before the election. It is a fundamental act in which we will see whether the elections are conducted in accordance with the law and fair. If we don't find that out, I'm afraid we'll always have complaints that the elections were, let's use this phrase, nontransparent because it often happens that a large percentage of voters vote on so-called. Confirmation and voter's list that it has not been completed, that it has not been approved by the electoral commission. Is it possible then to happen in the system itself to allow the situation to vote in two places because the list of voters has not been completed and you get confirmation. So the goal would have to be the law we are now discussing to eliminate the possibility of abuse of electoral rights. This proposal could be said in a consistent manner, and Article 22 discusses the establishment of a professional service that would lead to leadership in relation to the list of voters. I think it's really cumulating or piling up the administration for an area that we already have the state administration. It is very important to ensure that the electoral commission decides independently and the bill says that the composition of the electoral commission is proposed by political parties. Even in the article, I think it's the 7th who I can propose to the political parties. So at the beginning we give them color to political interests, in law we give them color to political interests. Therefore, it is not possible not to notice that after such a formulation in Article 7 and the provision that the term of office takes eight years and the provisions that this election commission appoints all other electoral committees without the proposal of the representative bodies of the local self-government units aim to concreteise the influence of this electoral commission, concreteize, retain influence on this election commission. I think that until the second reading, and it should really be possible to either try to make sure that as little discretion as possible is left in such an important right as the right to vote, and that matter should be seen as a whole, so all election laws whether it is about elections for mayors, mayors and mayors, parliamentary representatives, parliament or someone should so tell the matter from the top to the end to edit it with one law. So this, this Law should also regulate the appointment and the detour and the task and responsibility of each election commission. I haven't seen anything here, and I think we should talk about the State Election Commission's mission in the referendum. Especially when it comes to the voter list referendum. It is then crucial that the list of voters is pre-defined and concluded. Without it, it is difficult to declare an election referendum. Maybe there's something else I want to say about the solution. The resolution is absolutely left at will, on discretion, discretionary will of the president and vice presidents that they decide whether any of the members are immoral. Therefore, it is not criminal responsibility, but by the rules of independence it does not deserve to be a member of this committee and is left with the right to use it to propose its resolution. So all of this here is taxed. And the most important thing, which is said to be honest, moral, independent, professional, and so on is not regulated in matter. So, of course, I advocate that the office and matter of the electoral commission and all election committees comply with the other election laws and come to the next session, and in that sense I believe that the proposal is welcome as it is, but in my view, under-worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42282	Thank you very much, dear colleague Leko. Dear colleague Vukov has his word. Here's my colleague Vukov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42283	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will say what I said and at a recent meeting, a session of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Something that certainly doesn't concern the very contents of this text, but it does. In fact, the entire text says the vice president instead of me being wrong, let me be forgiven for my ignorance, but I think it's still written by the vice president. It may seem to someone that it was an excessive remark, but to me it seems that in public communication there has been a serious degradation of our language I think we should use every opportunity to point out and the fact that there should be a little more consideration. The predecessors have already said a lot of things that I have, and I want to say so I won't be too long. Here he is, particularly insisting on the fact that members of this commission are not political persons. That they are not members of any political party, however, their own way of choosing shows that this endeavor stands on some glass feet because, as my predecessors have already said, the president of the commission is elected on the basis of a public call, but most of the votes in the parliament, which means that he will automatically "via facts" whether to be a parliamentary majority man, and two vice presidents and vice presidents, respectively, will be elected so that one of them is proposed by the political majority and the other opposition. Unforeseeable and unpredictable difficulties can be seen from this. We can remember that we have had and we already have one experience that parliamentary opposition can hardly agree on its candidate, so it seems to me that there may already be unexpected complications at that level. So the choice itself. So I think it's a bit hypocritical to insist that these people are not members of a political party, and in this way their choices actually want them to do it, whether or not, no, I'm not saying that, that these people would want it to turn out that way, but by the way they choose, they'll be under some psychological and real pressure from those political structures they chose in Parliament. So I would also go so far as to say that the article here is the 13th, which says that the president, vice presidents and members of the Committee during the conduct of their duties cannot perform any professional duty or duty whose conduct would lead to doubts about their impartiality. Here I come to a paradoxical conclusion that only the performance of this duty would raise doubts about their impartiality. That it is clear to the promoter himself that there may be some, some complications in Article 15, all of them are stated, at all times when an early or expiry of the term of office can occur. So this lists the conditions that are more or less everyone, all clear and normal in themselves, and on the last day of the decision on resolution in case of loss of conditions necessary for the selection of the commission. Now, in the event of a loss of the conditions necessary for the selection of the commission. It is very flexible and very, very broadly interpreted and I suppose it can also be the withdrawal of support or parliamentary majority to those proposed by the parliamentary majority or the withdrawal of opposition support to those proposed by the opposition. The article 16 that is also quite vague suggests that this could be the case. Article 18 determines how a committee meeting will be conducted in the event that the President is unable to lead it. So in case the president is prevented, he's being replaced by the vice president. I always get this floor drawn to you by the Vice-President of the Commission appointed by the President. Since there are two vice presidents while the president is able to determine his deputy, of course, does not produce any difficulties, but assuming that the president could not determine his deputy would have some conflict between these two because, of course, it does not show which one of these two vice presidents should replace the president. This is where professional services are mentioned. I would also say that when you are already insisting from the very beginning that this commission is a professional and independent body, so the expert body is, then you should look into our rich language for some other term for these professional services, because there is no point in just being a professional body and that the services that work there are also professional. The applicant also states here, so it could be called administrative and technical staff or administrative and technical services. In the end, I'd be a little bit of an advocatus diabol, so I'd be wondering if, although in the first wave, we're quite convincing that one of these permanent bodies should contribute to the better functioning of the so-called. the election process, did we really do this one step forward. So far, we've had to choose the members of that committee, not only for the rest of us, but for the people who already own one professional, had to have a social reputation. So the fact that it was such a kind of people was in itself already a guarantee that they would do their job well. Now, however, by this turn, we actually lost that kind of people. Who from the Supreme Court or somewhere from other higher structures of courts will become a member, risk his career and his position and become a member of the Electoral State Commission when the fate of that commission is already in the nature of things because it is just being established, debateable. So we will have to reach out to new people, to young people who will only need membership in this commission to gain some professional and social reputation. And so, of course, new difficulties arise again and the possibility of having a stronger, political, and any other influence on such a species. So I'm expressing some kind of skepticism about this proposal, and I think we should work this out a little bit more and remove some of the misunderstandings from this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42284	Thank you very much. The word has a representative and vice president Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42285	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Finally, this proposal has resolved the dilemma, whether to have the State Election Commission as a volunteer team appointed from election to election and conduct elections or as a professional team. Here is a proposal for it to be a permanent, independent and according to the law itself, a professional State Election Commission that would be professionally composed of presidents, two vice presidents and two members, a total of five members. However, when viewed from that aspect, there are some things to be observed that need to be warned about. It receives the State Election Commission a new task, apart from the conduct of elections for local and regional self-government, for the council of national minorities, has been omitted and this should be incorporated, for local self-government too, because these are elections and, of course, national elections for the Croatian Parliament and for the President of the Republic of Croatia and a referendum has been added, but this issue has not been worked out, what the State Election Commission is doing in the conduct of the referendum. That should definitely work out. And in this context, a very serious question is raised, in fact, the quality or characteristics of which we should meet the presidents and members of the Electoral Commission. It is said that it should be lawyers or politicians who know the political and electoral system, watch the political and electoral system and have practical knowledge. It is very interesting, our State Election Commission, which now has or has its practical knowledge, has expired among other things and is conducting elections. Most of them cannot run or most likely will not because they will retain their functions as Supreme Court judges, administrative courts, etc. etc. where they are already. The question arises, in fact, who are we going to get from the candidates who took part in the election and therefore has practical knowledge without being a member of political parties. You know? This is an additional condition, that they should not be members of political parties. I think we've sharpened the matter to a very large extent, and in such a situation it should be quite clear that this issue should be brought forward, leveled by the practical situation it is in. The other thing to seriously consider is the question to appoint the president of the Electoral Commission as the basis of a public call, and vice presidents and members, therefore, would be appointed on the basis of a proposal from political parties regardless of their positions, the opposition, is evenly distributed. First, the question arises whether the president is equal, first among equal or special institutions, and by election mode would be a special institution but not elaborated on what his powers are as special institutions within the State Election Commission, except that he has the resources to do so even though he is colluding with the competence of the Electoral Commission as set out in Article 11 which practically determines all the tasks to be carried out. According to the law, he has the means to work for the president, he determines how to use, conduct surveillance, etc. He didn't know, he actually by this content when he takes what the commission is doing, he's an accountant on behalf of the commission but he's not the one who determines actually spending the funds, the means determining how he'll be spent... And in such a situation, it is very serious to actually consider this issue and at the same time to question whether what the law is trying to achieve is fundamental, that the commission is permanent, independent and professional. [[You don't understand.]] Is it permanently independent if parties number one and number two participate in his election, if it is specified that the mandate can only be two times in a row. It actually means you can't be chosen more times. Why could it not be chosen practically multiple times in a row, why only twice if it is permanent, independent and professional and if this commission works in quality regardless of how long these two mandates can be combined with 16 years. I think that in such a situation this second remark should also be very seriously discussed and seen from the point of view, in fact, the fundamental objectives that we want to achieve with this law, is that possible. The third group of questions that you would like to cover is actually jurisdiction. This jurisdiction that's here, it's out of regular work that you know yourself like this... but actually the actual jurisdiction of the Electoral Commission is now prescribed by election laws. Now, the question is whether or not this law will prescribe the work of the Election Commission on the Election Commission, I think that we should at least end it, not the electoral laws, because if that doesn't happen then we need these laws that we are going to discuss after this law, to be substantially corrected in relation to this law if we want to comply with these laws to be equal. For example, about the elections for local and regional self-government, quite different competences remain of the Electoral Commission than those now offered in this law. Of course, it is not yet a law and it does not have to be harmonised, but in such a situation, we need to make sure that we are actually passing some new laws in which we should resolve it and that is a serious observation that should also be taken into account until the second reading. It is further a question of Article 14 you know, where the presidents, vice-presidents and members of the committee may, during the course of their duties, carry out scientific, professional, research, etc., publish works. Now the question is whether the State Election Commission and its members have the right to publish expert and research papers on, say, the position of parties under the Law on Elections and to publish who has any advantage, which opinion on the basis of which the characteristics and behaviour of political parties, beware, is about science. They've got... for this UDK, a scientific contribution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And is that what he's independent of? Under this Law, we allow him to do it or to do it. I think that we should nevertheless make sure that the area concerned by the elections directly and indirectly, could hardly, from that aspect, and scientifically and professionally, observe the members of the electoral commission that they do not actually come into conflict with the interest of the work they are doing. And in such a situation, it should be further considered and possibly elaborated. In particular, it is an interesting issue related to Article 20 so that they can co-operate with professional bodies and associations established in the Republic of Croatia, international organisations and institutions. Now, what questions? Can they co-operate, for example, on election monitoring? Change of election laws? I don't know, and that's the 6th remark, where they can give, is one thing to give an initiative to change the electoral law, etc., and the other question is how it's been smuggled here that they actually give an opinion and can make suggestions. It is already a question of giving him the position of the working body of the Croatian Parliament. This is not the working body of the Croatian Parliament or should not be the State Election Commission. The State Election Commission under this Act would be the body of the Assembly established for the exercise of certain powers under the law of the prescribed jurisdiction and, in this respect, independent of the Parliament itself. It depends on monitoring and enforcing the law alone. And in that respect, a little bit of this question would have to be done, a little bit of this question would have to be done. I would particularly like to draw attention to Articles 21, 22 and Article 27 and 28, and Article 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I will read you explicitly: "the way the commission works and decides the issues related to the rights and obligations of non-members will be settled with the Rules of Procedure". I would like to remind you of the provision of Article 116. The constitution that says, "The structure and affairs of the State Administration and the way they are done are governed by law." Dear colleagues and colleagues, this commission is among other things accompanied by the conduct of the election, it does lists of voters, concludes lists of voters, clean administrative affairs. Therefore, this must be regulated by law and cannot be in the jurisdiction of the Rules of Procedure. I know that such a delegation is convenient in the legislation because a whole series of issues that should actually be regulated now are you transferring it to the Rules of Procedure which could be settled. But unfortunately, under the Constitution, this could not be, and in particular it could not be, when it comes to Article 22, where the Commission has a professional service established to carry out professional tasks in the section of the commission, and it is said in the 28th among other things to the effect of this Regulation by which it will be resolved, to establish a professional service. "They are authorized by the management of officials of the Office of State Administration, authorised to keep a list of voters there are state officials, professional services, commissions, etc." And the exclusive jurisdiction to regulate the law by force of the Constitution and in such a situation this practically entire chapter, you know. 9, 10 on the professional service of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Commission and these transitional and final provisions must be substantially, significantly corrected and brought into line with the Constitution in order to address this issue. Of course, then the law will not have a dozen articles but will have some more articles. And I'd like to remind you that we've recently passed the State Service Act, in which we've pointed out exactly what the state service is. Therefore, the expert service of the State Election Commission and only the State Election Commission in one section will also, given that they are state officials, be a professional service. So we're going to have to make sure that it's in line with the State Service Act. In principle, I believe that the idea is acceptable so that it could be referred to another reading, but there are many and many principles and individual remarks to be taken into account by the final draft of the law and I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take into account the final draft of the law and to refer it to the procedure as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42286	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So I would like to point out firstly that the proposal for a law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia should undoubtedly be supported, and in particular those legislative solutions which determine the competences of the State Election Commission, the way it works and the way in which the president and members of the National Election Commission are elected and the length of the term of office. This bill really does represent the newspaper. The paper in our practice of conducting the elections, namely the electoral legislation and should indeed be seen as a quality solution that has so far been defined or whose solutions under this Act are, of course, found in all those electoral laws that represent not only the backdrop of electoral legislation but also the foundation of the entire electoral system. It is indeed very important regulations which, in total, regulate electoral issues in the Republic of Croatia, and of course, it is also about the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, so the Law on the Selection of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, and the Law on the Selection of members of representative bodies of local and regional (regional) self-government and the Law on referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of the state authority of local self-government. Of course, it should be pointed out in this sense that on the date of entry into force of this Act, the jurisdiction of the State Administration Authority, therefore, the authorities of the State Administration prescribed in the Law on Lists of Voters, will be transferred to the State Election Commission, i.e. the Professional Service of the Commission itself. Furthermore, this regulation affirms the principles to be highlighted on this occasion, which does not mean that in the election processes, especially in the work of the state election commissions, these principles were not highlighted. But I repeat, it is this very regulation that sets them apart in a special way and emphasizes them. And these are therefore the principles of expertise, impartiality, political independence, which become the basic criteria that should be promoted by applying the law itself through the future functioning and work of the State Election Commission. In line with the legal definition, the Commission should indeed be seen as a permanent, independent and professional state body. Therefore, that body which will implement and be responsible for the conduct of all elections, i.e. election cycles prescribed as such by specific laws, which were independently local, advisory, state or any other form of direct participation of citizens in the decision-making process. In my debate, I would also refer to Article 11 as some of the honourable parliamentary representatives touched that Article 11 in a negative context. However, my opinion is that it is the team of Article 11 that is prescribed not only that, in fact, responsibility or part-time work of the commission itself. And that this article 11 actually removes all the misunderstandings or misunderstandings that we may have had in the election cycles so far, and now by special regulation and in a special article, it is actually taxing to work in part. And in my opinion, in fact, this problem is clearer and more precisely solved than it was in all of these regulations that I was just talking about. By reading this provision, therefore, Article 11, we see a foothold for the adoption of this regulation, and an election problem, the issue of the conduct of elections, which is why it is necessary to see it as a constant concern for the commission itself as a state body and the relevant professional services. So, I repeat, perseverance and concern. Therefore, accounting not only during that time period when elections are held either directly but continuously and continuously, so the state body that will take care of this problem. It should not be mentioned that such a solution will improve electoral practice, which is clear in itself and the procedure for the implementation of the elections. Elections or election cycles should be absolutely the basis for this regulation to be more quality in applying the conduct of elections at all levels, and this law allows for real and proposing, the newing of individual legal institutes related to individual legal issues of electoral legislation. I repeat and respect the position and opinion of the esteemed colleagues, but I think it is precisely that the State Election Commission will be able and will be able to look at the issue of conducting the elections itself, all of what appears as a problem in the electoral cycle as one professional independent body absolutely is able and will propose, of course, in view of its competences, to recruit or amend those regulations that regulate this particular area. It seems to me like one logical, normal, correct, legal solution. This regulation further enables an unequivocal and consistent organisation and implementation of education, education of all participants in the electoral process, which is not minor, which is not irrelevant. Education of all subjects in the electoral process is a fundamental assumption regardless of such or such legal solutions that election cycles are conducted in accordance with the law, in accordance with the standards which are as such and prescribed and accepted. And the regulation itself will indeed in this sense encourage citizens to participate in election procedures. On the one hand, education, on the other hand, transparency, on the third hand, encouraging citizens to participate by electoral procedures, so these are all elements that I personally find to be the quality of this proposed legal text and there is no legal other reason for me to really not support these solutions or accept them. Given the fact that it is a regulation that is in the first reading, let me look at perhaps some solutions that could not be removed until the second reading, or that these are some serious or important grudges to the very text of the law, these are actually opinions that have been or have appeared on the parent committees, specifically to the Legislative Committee, and of course I will say this in terms of the possibility of improving the legal text itself regarding everything I said before. It would not be worse if, until the second reading and in this sense, my proposal were to review the possibility of supplementing the provisions of those solutions which were determined and the responsibility of the members of the Committee, and perhaps even to the possibility of recalling them when they were established or when they came into that second term, because the mandate is 8 years and may be 2 times, when elements that would refer to a certain responsibility arise, regardless of the nature of that responsibility, whether it was a president or a member of the Committee, so to try to elaborate that part. Secondly, it would not be worse to review a solution whereby the representative bodies of the regional, regional units of local self-government are no longer elected by the members of the electoral committees to conduct the elections in their area and the third decision to which the majority of the members of the commission are made, and given that it is the members who carry out their duties professionally I think we have had the opportunity to hear from other representatives this relationship with continuity, professionalism in relation to the decision-making of which most and in what sense of the session, that this solution may be in a more precise way in the law itself as such and regulated. In conclusion, therefore, I absolutely support this Bill proposal and I think that the sooner it should go to another reading, in order to enable it to enter into force as soon as possible, is one quality newspaper in the electoral system and my personal opinion that it will improve in this sense and the quality of the electoral processes, thereby raising the quality of the election, regardless of what elections it was or possibly the conduct of one of the referendums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42288	Thank you very much, fellow Tomljanović. It's my dear colleague Nenadic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42289	Mr. Secretary of State, I'd like to get involved a little bit to form an important part that I in principle support to form and work as soon as possible. I would also like to say that several colleagues have talked about the fact that as many of the activities here are prescribed, which are related to the electoral procedure and all the bodies that conduct the elections from state to county city commissions, as well as election committees. I think it's more of a place here than in the Bill of Elections of Representative Bodies. The 5th article says that the Commission will choose who is not a member of any political party and is not a candidate in the elections. The moment this commission is elected no one is running in the election, because there is no choice, the commission is elected before the elections are. So this or by me needs to be deleted and is not a candidate in the election or is thought not to be a candidate in the election, because at the moment of the election no one is in the election. At the moment of this commission's election, because there's no choice. Furthermore, I also support this that the political parties in the Assembly are part of the proposal because we all sort of push it if the parties don't propose everything else turns out to be something professional, objective, etc., neutrally and I am firm in the belief that there are no such parties, as soon as someone votes, and all of them, aged 18, have the right to vote and commit themselves to any individual or any party, therefore they are not unsatisfactory, so no associations are called either this or that, there are no unsolicited ones. And I also claim that the best and the most regular and fairest ever were multiparty election committees than when some neutrals were. Also in the 8th article to select members of the commission of legal or political profession, I also do not understand the political profession, this is purely procedure, legal matter, legal matter, not political, research, etc., I don't think there's room for that here. The 11th article says that the Committee appoints members of the County Election Commission of the City of Zagreb, does not say how many members would be elected, perhaps we can prescribe or remain in the Law on the selection of representative bodies, but I think that should be written here. I also think that it should be written that the city and county name actually, that the county to name city and municipal election committees, may be listed again by the law firm or already as we define ourselves. Then there was that we had so-called. Expanded compositions, I think it should also be written here whether these extended election committees will exist and whether the parties will give representatives to the city, the county election committees, or whether the parties will only give observers. I think it should be clarified between this bill and the law on the selection of representative bodies and defined in one place. The 16th article states that a decision on a resolution or decision on the selection of a new president, vice-president or member of a committee will be taken by the competent authority within 60 days of receipt of the notice of receipt of the circumstances for the early termination of the term of office. Since the commission is appointed by the Croatian Parliament and what happens when the work of the Parliament ceases until the election of the new parliament, when the conditions for resolution are obtained and the Parliament is missing, whether it is possible for the Government to make a regulation or whether it is necessary for the institution of a deputy member or that the Government can do so by a regulation because it can happen when the work of the Parliament ceases and until the new Parliament is established that there is no one to choose a replacement member of the commission. Here, these are a few of my thoughts that I think it would be good to think a little bit about so that this would be more comprehensive and more precise and I really support once again and finally this election, the formation of the State Election Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42290	Thank you very much, colleague Nenadić. That's how we exhausted the list of people reported for discussion. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Yeah. The word has the Secretary of State Mr Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42291	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We are pleased that all the discussion went in the direction of establishing a professional State Election Commission in Croatia. We certainly did not want this law to address all matters of jurisdiction of the State Election Commission, which it has under the special laws of the Law on the election of presidents, MPs, local elections. But here we have now carefully heard the debates, the proposals that have been made here. Some are contradictory, some are common proposals regardless of who suggested them, which political option. We will carefully examine this, the arguments presented, and prepare it as the final draft of the law of the text, which will include, to the greatest extent possible, all of those proposals that have been made to obtain an independent expert body that will conduct all elections in the Republic of Croatia and the referendum, which all participants of the electoral process will be pleased with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42292	Thank you, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the debate. We'll vote on this wheel when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42293	We're going to vote on some discussed points. First, the proposal for a law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on the State Election Commission is being adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? The proposed conclusion adopted by 96 votes and 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42294	Let us now have the first information on how we will proceed with our work. We will now unite the points of the following Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government and the Proposal for a Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government in the Joint Discussion, and in particular we will reunitely hold a debate on the following two points which follow behind this, which is the Proposal for a Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors of the City of Zagreb, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, and the Proposal for a Law on the Selection of Members of Representative Authorities of the Units of Local and Regional Regional Regional Self-Government and the Selection of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. In other words, as you can see when it comes to jurisdiction and the organisation of local self-government, the debate on the two draft laws will be united, and when it comes to the choice of mayors, mayors and mayors, a special debate on both laws, because these two laws, in substance, cover the two laws. So we move on to a united debate on 2. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 265 3. Proposal for a law on local and regional (regional) self-government – Proposer of the Club of Representatives HNS-PGS, first reading, P.Z. No. 310 In the first one I just read the law, as you know, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the second one is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian PGS. You received the proposal by mail or in boxes. The debate on these proposals was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received their reports at the session. Of course, I expect that the proposing representatives will seek and receive a word for the opening explanations. Well, then, first I ask the Prime Minister if he wants to. Yeah. The word has a colleague, Antun Palarić, State Secretary, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then, if he wishes to, he will also have a representative of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian PGS. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42295	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government through two readings. We had the first reading of this law before the regular local elections. Here, within the legal deadline, the Government has also proposed a final bill aimed at encouraging the development of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia in three key directions, as is the Council of Europe's guidance. We encourage the best practice of local self-government units, promote the process of decentralisation and encourage the process of strengthening the capacity of local self-government units by establishing a model of permanent education for local officials and local elected officials. The Central State Administration Office, together with the Council of Europe and with the Union of Cities and Municipalities in the last year, has conducted a pilot project according to us a very successful evaluation and awarding best practice in local self-government units. In the process of running for the assessment of achievements in local self-government, we have seen that there are extraordinary solutions and that it is good to encourage, emphasize, give others an example. So last year we shared a prize from the funds of this Central State Office, but the proposal is for this law to establish a state reward for the best practice of local self-government units. In order to open up space for wider decentralisation, we leave the monotypic form of units of local self-government because we must admit that there is not any administrative and financial force of some work with 200 thousand inhabitants, 150 thousand inhabitants as well as cities with three or four thousand inhabitants or municipalities. We therefore propose to introduce a new category of units of local self-government, category of large cities. According to our proposal, cities with more than 40,000 inhabitants would be given such jurisdiction to cities that are also county headquarters. In fact, although some cities which are county headquarters are smaller per capita, they still have sufficient financial and administrative potential to be able to accept more jurisdiction than is currently provided for. With this law, we open up space for large cities to be entrusted with the issue of all building permits. Therefore, since local self-government already has the right to bring spatial plans to this law, we open up the possibility that large cities for their own territory and the county for the district outside the large cities regulate the issue of local, construction and use permits, so all that is of interest to the development of the local environment and to the population resident in the area. In practice, it has been shown that an existing legal solution in which smaller municipalities or units of local self-government do not have a head office but is exercised by the president of the representative body. Turns out that's not good. We therefore propose that the possibility be opened for all units of local self-government, regardless of the number of inhabitants, to be allowed to establish a headship. Although there must be some criteria, the number of inhabitants is often not the only one and enough criteria because in some smaller, mostly coastal cities or municipalities rich in mining goods or have stronger industries in their area, such financial potentials are created that they can invest significantly more, invest, and for anything that should be decided, we believe that it is more practical that... , fewer members meet than decisions are made on a representative body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the process of overseeing the legality of the work of local self-government units, there is an existing solution that the only body in charge of local self-government, and that is now the Central State Administration's Office is exercising control over the legality of all general acts, is not good. Gentlemen of the Central State Administration Office cannot have experts of all profiles, and when it comes to spatial planning, then those who understand it must do so. When it comes to the communal economy, it must be done by experts from the Ministry who do so. When it comes to taking care of children, then it must be the ministry that has it in its vault. We therefore propose that the supervision of the legality of the general acts be entrusted to each body, to every ministry in its jurisdiction established by the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authority of the State Administration. The objective of strengthening administrative capacity can be achieved in several ways. One is, of course, choosing the best personnel, prescribing the obligations of personnel to, in particular, those who carry out their work of administrative procedure end up with a state expert exam. It can also be achieved by prescribing higher wages at local self-government level to attract personnel. In order to in some ways attract those who want to work in local self-government, whose motive is the work of profit, however, we believe that we need to establish an organisational form of permanent education for local employees because in Croatia and so, in the world of knowledge, knowledge is very quickly outdated. We're a country in transition. Our legal system adapts to European standards. New laws are constantly passed and need to be studied. Once learned after several years of obsolescence and therefore we believe that an institution should be established together with the Croatian Government together with the National Union of Cities and Municipalities. And in this, we are prepared to assist many international organisations operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to establish themselves, we called it the Academy of Local Democracy. Something like we have a Centre for the Education of Civil Servants where we founded and opened this spring and started activities in the education of civil servants. This Law also addresses the issue of representation of national minorities in administrative bodies in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Here we have explained in detail all the provisions of this Law and the reasons why we did not accept something, and therefore we ask you to support the adoption of this Law because this is a step forward in those three key directions that local self-government is taking in Europe. And we believe that implementation of this law will be a step forward in strengthening local self-government in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42296	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Representative of the HNS Representatives Club of the PGS Mr. Lesar. Here you go. You have a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42297	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues have not worked out a problem in a united debate because it really is the same Law with the Government proposing to change them or supplement the existing, and we are the new Law but the diversity of the objective, the purpose we want to achieve and the content is difficult to discuss equally because we wanted to solve the whole with two laws, one that regulates the powers, competences and actions of local self-government, as well as their choice of representative bodies. From choice, constitution to work. The government, however, came first only with an individual decision on the law that speaks about the current system of local and regional self-government, and that we are always in the handicap of showing the fact that our proposal of 8 June and the government's indication of the government that I will later comment on indicates that it calls before writing its draft law with this content commented on our proposal that we could certainly not have known until it came into the parliamentary procedure a few days ago. Unlike trying to patch up an existing law for which I can generally say the government's proposal is acceptable except maybe a few of the dangers that are hidden inside us, we have not touched or suggested increasing the authority of municipalities, cities and counties in relation to those they have so far and because so far the Parliament has rejected our proposals twice. I remind you first that the total income tax collected remains in favour of local and regional self-government and the second that the distribution of the collected income tax works in a different way, not that Minister Schuker today said 72% of the tax collected on profits ends in the City of Zagreb. According to my data, it's 80% instead of being in cities, municipalities and counties where it comes from. So in unpreparedness and inadequacy, and the government has always refused such proposals that we do not kill the budgets of municipalities, cities and counties financially, we believe that, for now, under the existing Law on the financing of local self-government, giving new obligations to local self-government is not good. The government suggests moving from the state district to the business of urbanism, location and building permits, but does not provide an additional source of income. And I think that the existing provision that speaks of the state's obligation to consult and consult with local self-government before proposing new legal solutions in this regard, which was written in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which Croatia has ratified, and this time the government has not followed. In contrast, we have sent our bill to local self-government units and received a series of useful suggestions and suggestions. Secondly, the proposal of this new law is therefore not a power but a system of constitution, elections and relations between a leader and a representative body because we have also proposed in the package another Law on Choice which provides for a direct selection of leaders. We therefore propose a proportionate electoral system for the representative body, and for the heads of municipalities, cities and counties and majority. Since the system of direct selection of the headman does not tolerate the staying of the headship in municipalities, cities and counties, which was specifically warned by the HDZ Club in the previous assembly of the Parliament when the People's Party also came with this bill and were absolutely right, and in the name of the club it was made by Mrs Matulovic, we have excluded from our proposal that municipalities, cities and counties have headships as executive bodies, because they are really not compatible with the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. We have a government proposal on direct elections right behind this, but in the Law on Local Self-Government, the Government retains its headship as executive bodies and therefore it is difficult to draw the parallel between their and our bill. Third, or fourth. We go with the concept that leaders do not have deputies but helpers, so we introduce assistants of the mayor, mayor and mayor who correspond exclusively to him within their office, while the government's concept of deputy who should, but it does not say so in the law, go to elections together with the main candidate, and that is the important difference when citizens choose the candidate for chief or choose him with his deputies, they practically have the same powers and can assume power at any time during the entire term of office without a new election certificate. In the incompatibility of the functions we proposed, the government literally copied us and copied us with only one difference. In our law, we have predicted that it is incompatible to be mayor and parliamentary representative, the head of the municipality and parliamentary representative and mayor and parliamentary representative. So in this we are really different and allow a little digression, I believe that my colleague Kramaric now has nothing to do with this proposal after these local elections and that he will really support it. We have an absurd situation that according to existing rules the mayors and the mayors of the municipalities may be representatives in the Parliament, but the mayors do not. How did that happen? Before 2000, the mayors were also regional officials, but also state officials, because they had part of the state's authority and they succumbed to the approval of the president of the state and were then called local administration and self-government. Since 2001, we have local or regional self-government and the mayors are not state officials, and in that part of the law we have declared them regional officials, but in the Law on Elections for Parliament, we have not erased them that they are incompatibility, so we have a continuation of the situation that the mayor with 70 thousand inhabitants cannot be in Parliament, but the mayor of the city with 400 or 300 thousand or 100 thousand and a triple budget can be in the Assembly. We therefore believe that the seriousness, content and responsibility of the work of the head of the county, the city and the municipality are such that the same person cannot be in the Assembly at the same time. We also proposed a way of recalling directly elected leaders and gave the initiative in the jurisdiction of one-third of the representative body, which in itself requires the decision of the three-quarter majority, and in this case, the Government shall hold a referendum within 30 days and only give voters the right and possibility to relieve the directly elected mayor, the mayor or mayor. According to the government's decisions, this remains in the jurisdiction of the representative body, which I must confess is a very surprising surprise to me. And the seventh, Government Commissioner who can be named in 8, 9, 12 different cases, we predict that the government can only give its commissioner in the municipality or the city if the representative body and the directly elected head falls, not only in the case of the fall of the representative body, because if the County Assembly has fallen, the mayor who can do these tasks temporarily remains, if the city council has fallen, and thus we reduce both the number of situations and opportunities for the government commissioner to manage too long the local or regional self-government itself. And I'm done with the next one. The government expected in its opinion did not give a positive opinion on our bill, although it respects and understands our intentions as a whole. What are the four main arguments of the government that doesn't accept our argument, our bill? The first argument of the government is that they have already written their final proposal for a law on changes and additions to local self-government. Is that an argument? Secondly, with regard to the proposal for a proposing to regulate the status of large cities, the Proposer provides a good solution but we have provided otherwise in our law, according to the Government in its opinion. Thirdly, with regard to the proposal for a direct election of the executive body, we propose this in the second law. And fourthly, in the case of the adoption of this law, the electoral law should also be amended, according to the government. But at that same session, I assume that the government has also given an opinion on our proposal in the Election Law, so I don't understand whether the government has two resolutions that write them opinions on the laws of local and regional self-government or if there's been a serious confusion, because it can't accuse us of not giving up the whole of the solution because both laws were given the same law and it says that this one is not good and the issue of electoral procedure has not been resolved at the same time. ... I know, maybe two officials wrote opinions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Exactly, colleague Kramarić. And I end up with the next one. The fourth time we came before you, and that former assembly of Parliament, with the idea of direct elections. I am sure that this time you will not let our proposal go to another reading, but if the consequences of all this are the adoption of the law and we finally introduce direct elections for the leaders, and especially with the Law on Regional Self-Government, or the additions that the Government has now given, by the end of the year we will bring amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government, we will be extremely pleased because we have succeeded in the goal. Whose suggestion is it? Whose idea is it? Less important. It is important that we allow the citizens of this country to choose leaders, and I am sure, that after such an election model, the number of situations we have after these local elections, these unloved scenes, tensions, extraordinary elections, appointments of government commissioners in municipalities, cities and counties will be far less, far less if we trust voters to know how to counter the authorities at local and state level. We have time to really have both laws that speak of choice, impeachment, authority, obligations, but now I call on the government again to also finance local, regional self-government to add to the package, to bring this calendar year. Especially because of the budget that municipalities, cities and counties must bring about the same amount as we here in the Parliament. All the ideas and suggestions that can be different from the solutions we have made, we are prepared to observe, study and install in another reading. I ask you to give us a chance especially in the electoral model that both models go into an even debate, as is the government's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42298	Thank you, dear colleague Lesar. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We're moving on to a debate by the representatives' clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Markovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42299	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think that Mr. Lesar spoke so nicely of his law that everything I say makes no sense anymore, so I will speak only of amendments and additions to the laws of the government. Therefore, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government will resolve a number of dilemmas that have been shown in the practice of implementing the law so far. Some changes are introduced, some changes are introduced on a proposal from the National Union of Cities and municipalities, which is certainly commendable. This is, for example, the possibility of awarding annual recognitions to municipalities and cities, and the counties normally, and contributing to strengthening local administrations and regional self-government. From the same source comes the proposal to set up the Academy of Local Democracy. However, little should be imagined by us about this National Union. We often mention it, we respect it here, and in fact it is still on the margins. Remember, if you saw what their ticket looks like that comes out very rarely, which is very scarce. So, they live off contributions, messy contributions from cities and municipalities, and what's unfortunate in all this, depends often on foreign donors who help but it seems to me that the unified programs underestimate the situation in our local administration and self-government. My opinion is that we finally decide what to do with them, help them strengthen because finally, we have something to learn from each other, but we don't really get to see what others are doing to us. Sure, positive. That's why we need to find other sources of funding than membership fees, so I think it would be, in order to find a little space for both them and the budget. With the idea of a big city, it's hard to agree where the population would be to make the city a big city. Let's remember the proposal, here, fellow Kramaric, I think it was 70 grand. There were also 30 thousand people, and we are actually a small country with a small number of large settlements, so the proposed 40,000 is quite a real number. I believe that accepting the border, and the HDZ Club will give the amendment such as 35 thousand would be covered by cities that, by their size, development, position and importance, should be given the status of a big city. In fact, it's only two cities that are strategically important. These are Vinkovci, and along with Vinkovci and a border town that is today a city of 36 and a half thousand inhabitants, Samobor. It is good that the law includes county headquarters regardless of the number of inhabitants. The large city is given the opportunity to issue local and construction permits, so it directly assumes responsibility for its appearance and development. They take over maintenance or they can take over public roads which the county is unable to do or do not do well enough. For municipalities and cities up to 3,000 inhabitants, it is extremely important to abolish the dubious decision that the council is also headship. There is no reason to list countless negative examples in current practice. We had a neighboring town of Stupnik, so we saw all the misery that came out of it. In the wake of daily turbulences in municipalities and cities and counties over the takeover of power, the session is being countered. In this way, by disbanding the representative body, a solution is well-proposed. I quote: "if the president of the presidential body does not convene the session referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article, the meeting will be convened by the municipal chief, mayor or mayor within 15 days. Finally, at the request of one-third of the members of the representative body, the meeting may be convened by the Head of the Central Authority of the State Administration." Thus, the continuity of the work of the council, or assembly, is ensured, which is certainly good. The amendments to Article 41 should be supported so that the municipalities, cities and counties can select two deputy chiefs. The mayor, or mayor. That doesn't mean that this job, because the public will probably jump right away, they have to work professionally. I believe that most of the municipalities and cities will have volunteers, i.e. according to opportunities and needs. It's a good suggestion that the headmasters of the administrative bodies can, but they don't have to be members of the headship. Defining the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor was certainly an obstacle to the Law on Direct Choice. An amendment to Article 51 to show confidence is sufficient for one third of the council members, but what is good here is no delay, but there is no ad hoc solution. So it takes 7 days, at least 7 days from the proposal, but 30 days from the proposal to the debate. Article 53(2) allows municipalities and cities of more than 3,000 inhabitants to have a unique department that is certainly more functional and significantly cheaper in smaller municipalities and cities. Well, I can tell you about my 17-and-a-half-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-a-pop, a single department works perfectly. The law also defines the representation of national minorities in the administrative bodies and services of units of local and regional self-government, if they participate in the population with more than 15%. Clearly, there is a bigger problem with manipulations, the resignations of the council of national minorities in representative bodies, but it is from another story. It is necessary to adopt and implement, in practice, permanent training and training of officials. We heard, Mr. Secretary of State explained why, due to the sudden development. Furthermore, the amendment of Article 79 resolves the confusion over the jurisdiction to monitor the legality of general acts. In addition to the Office of the State Administration and the County, it should be carried out by the competent central authorities of the State Administration. What matters is everyone in their own circle. The HDZ Club proposes that the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42300	Thank you, dear colleague. The correction of the incorrect quote on your exhibition has a respected colleague Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42301	A respected colleague talked all the time about local administration and self-government. I don't know if she's subconscious or conscious of a mistake, but the mistake is so. There's no more of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42302	That's right. It's a mistake. Here you go, buddy. Now you have your word. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As a matter of fact, and the details of our proposal for a law of the HNS-PGS Club, Lesar's colleague spoke nicely and generously about how he already knows and I will try to highlight some or the same, some elements that seem to me to better picture the situation and solve problems better than the Government's proposals. First of all, it should be asked why the ruling large parties both in the past and in the previous term and in this co-operation to these local elections were not actually ready for these direct elections. The answers from the political theory are different, so they should not be elaborated here, that no one is offended, the insult today was enough, but the fact is that at one point the party is in power, one big one said that Croatian political space is not ready for a direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors with an explanation will appear several hundred people, some of whom may be strange people who will abuse this direct choice and make scandals on the ground. In another situation again, the Prime Minister said that the government is not ready to experiment, then we end up making the logic of such a choice as we get the situation from Dubrovnik to Karlovac as we got and we concluded that it really can't have another one anymore than to do what the whole world is already doing and that we choose local self-government leaders directly to get the legitimacy of citizens, so whatever that means in the party hierarchy, and as much as these people get independence from their central committees of central committees, whatever we call them. The legitimacy of the leaders chosen by this model, which has actually been streamlined in both laws, because these laws suggest a way of choosing the leaders stemming from the will of the citizens. However, in order for that legitimacy to gain full strength, he must have ingenuity. Unfortunately, the government's bill of law left practically the same definition of how to replace the head of local self-government, so the procedure triggers one-third of the members of the representative body and then something happens, doesn't say what's going on inside. The real picture of what the Government's proposal actually thinks about locals about the directly elected local leaders is an article 31. The proposal for a law that came from the Government that says if a representative body is disbanded, the head will only and exclusively carry out the tasks necessary for the functioning of the local self-government until the next election of the representative body, so the directly elected head to whom most citizens have given under the next law on which we will discuss legitimacy actually has jurisdiction as the current mayor, mayor and mayor who is elected from the party list, no bigger so now the mayor, mayor and mayor in the situation when the assembly of those units of local self-government is disbursed. So, the direct choice is the facade behind which the partytocracy remains. The recall of the leader in the Law which, the Bill proposed by the Government, 1/3 of MPs or councilors in the local unit of local self-government initiates the initiative, our proposal for a barata with a much larger number with a councilman and envisions a referendum. Of course, only the one who chose the head of local self-government, i.e. A citizen can change it. Since everyone has to be responsible for their actions then we have predicted that the representative body of the local self-government unit that initiates the referendum and the referendum does not pass and the referendum costs, not only the money costs and the political one, things stop coming to a blockade of work, etc., that this representative body is disbanding. In a situation where a representative body cannot co-habit with a leader who has been elected directly and initiates a referendum procedure and citizens say we do not want him, someone has to leave. It is evident that both of these structures cannot continue to function. As far as the goals are concerned, the objectives are, of course, nominally, the same. We want such a political system at the level of local and regional self-government in which citizens will have a greater direct impact, in which there will be greater responsibility and where there will be no counterfeiting of the will of citizens as this has been happening in Croatia in recent months, a variety of post-election coalitions where, in fact, if full authority was given to the directly elected head of local self-government, there would be no need for post-election coalitions. And the need for trade simply wouldn't exist, it wouldn't be worth it anymore, it wouldn't even be on the market. This Regulation shall enter into The government's proposal mentions the heads of departments that cannot now be members of the Headship, the government's proposal says they can be elected to the headship of units or regional self-government. Which is good. However, the director cannot hold two positions and two functions, he cannot be a top official, a man who professionally does his job, who came to the public tender for the job and who, according to some criteria of the public tender, has decided that he will be a good member of the headship of the political body at the same time. If the headship remains which we do not think should remain, because if the political headship remains then the head has no function, directly elected, the leader has no function because the headship can take down any decision, so if the headship remains then the members of that headship are a political person, in no way professional, and then such leaders do not have to and should not choose by any competition, by any public invitation but simply by the political structure that has received the choice sets them and they with that structure go forward and that's the whole story. Finally, I would like to say that the goal of this kind of structure of the affairs of local self-government, so the organisation, the election and everything else is not only to give citizens the possibility of direct influence and direct choice of leader so that they are happy, so now we have voted for our mayor, for our mayor, our mayor, he is ours, but that this person, after being elected entirely whatever political options he comes from, is independent of the political option, because they chose him by the citizens. If we choose him directly and limit him through the headship, through the ingenuity, through the way we change, I'm afraid we didn't do God knows what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42304	Thank you, colleague Vuljanic. On behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Damir Cain, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42305	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the House of Representatives! You're not here for the government's proposals, nor are the HNS proposals good. I think it's an experiment that will further weaken, more specifically force local self-government to deal with itself rather than with problems and citizens. And so much of my opinion is that experimenting with local self-government is simply not good, although what is harmful regardless of what we are all aware that the reform of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia is necessary. That's not controversial. However, these suggestions are simply not good. Good people may be just as good as they start to discuss local self-government, but they would, or they would, when voted in such a form, cause total non-functioning of local self-government. What is necessary in the Republic of Croatia, however, is decentralisation of powers and these proposals do not speak at all about both the HNS and the Government. What is even more necessary, however, is the redistribution of money between the state and local self-government, and unfortunately these legal proposals do not speak about it either. Therefore, we do not need such laws as are offered to us at this time in Croatia. It is clear that if there is an amendment to the law on elections for representative bodies it will be necessary to amend this Law on the local area in brackets as it is written by (regional) self-government. This parentheses offends me, but what do I do? It is important, however, to reform the local self-government and to achieve such consensus in moving towards the reform. What one needs is to strengthen the position of the county because the county has the budgets of 100, 200, 300 million kuna at the moment. One word, nothing, and that's really how it should be understood. The county budgets are 100, 200, 300 million kuna which is almost nothing and on the other hand some have "and that happiness" that they must care for, for example, general hospitals that employ a thousand and a hundred to five hundred doctors, which medical staff and which have higher incomes or expenses than the county budgets. Third, whenever there's a law written by those laws on local self-government. It has always been written by the gentlemen of the people who live in Zagreb, and the same people who do not know the opportunities in the periphery of the provisions of the law have made Zagreb and the great cities, and it has simply caused disaster when local self-government in Croatia is in the process. And they have led to the fact that the City of Zagreb has sucked the entire Republic of Croatia. He sucked her up financially, sucked her up economically, sucked her up politically, and what's most tragic and demographic. And that is exactly the last demographic that is the biggest tragedy that has happened to Croatia because a large part of this country unfortunately remains an "empty space" of an unspective field and literally so. And God forbid to change or apply this Electoral Law for selecting representatives and metropolisting Croatia will be 100% with the fact that at that time Parliament will turn into a large assembly of the City of Zagreb. But this is not going to happen because this law is current when the election of MPs is accompanied by the leadership of regional representation and is most similar to the European laws of all the laws that the Republic of Croatia owns. But about that some other time. Not to mention, it was written by independent experts at the head of, say, Mrs. Kasapovic, etc. So, the essence of this Law on Local and Regional Self-Government proposed by both the Government and the CNS is electoral legislation but here should be the following. First, if someone fits the direct elections of the mayor, the mayor, then it certainly corresponds to the IDS and that, for example, the model would not be applied to the IDS in some environments such as Visnjan or Labin where we win over 45% of the votes, not the mandate, unfortunately so many and the mandates, so they would not remain in opposition. It is simply a shame and about the civilizational steps where the left and right perform together as well as in Velika Gorica on another occasion. Win 45% of the vote and you're out. It's just not fair, it's a piece of work. So IDS is for direct selection. We did because it suits us. However, the question arises whether it is good. It is good to avoid post-election policy funding, it is also possible because of the stability of the chiefs but it is not good for parliamentaryism at local level. This certainly does not encourage this parliamentaryism at local level because we are introducing now at the local level a presidential, semi-presidential system and so much we have challenged President Tudjman in our time. So, the best election model the Republic of Croatia had was, I'm talking about local elections, the one from 1993. It's hard for me to admit, but I must admit that, let's say, the legal proposal when one half was chosen directly, one half of the lists must have been the best election model that the Republic of Croatia had. Unfortunately, this decreased in 1997 and in 2000, the coalition completely abandoned the principle and was in some way responsible for this post-election immorality that occurred after these local elections. So I said in the same way in 2000, I was right. What's that worth? We see what we just got. So before we engage in this matter, I think it would be necessary to first "supply" representatives with solutions in some of our neighbouring Western-European countries, I don't know one Austria, Italy, Germany, Denmark, no matter where and take one finished model and not one mouse like this. Or worse, to experiment on our own because don't forget to throw the first kittens in the water. I'm sure that's what we gentlemen will do with these legal decisions. For me, the representative authority must always be superior, co-boarded, however you will, dominant of the executive, and unless we introduce Caesarism, not to say papalism, incomparableness of the executive authority at local level. Another thing I'd like to ask you not to quote these articles in the HNS bill. Don't touch gentlemen in this territorial division. For example, the city is a unit of local self-government in which the county is based and every place that has more than ten thousand inhabitants assumes etc., etc. Exactly, the municipality, the towns, the county in Croatia has like a swim but regardless of the cost of this division of the Republic of Croatia today or regardless of the structure of Croatia a series of small municipalities, I see it now from the position of Istria County did not prove to be bad. Some municipalities, it does not matter if it is mentioned before Višnjan, Vizinada, Gračisu, Serovlja, Brtonigly, Zminju, etc. They laid down 50, 60, 70 kilometers of water installations, they created small-scale areas, and I say it's good because they took care of themselves far better than they did, I don't know, taking care of Buzet or Pazin. However, some cities of the city's status which is the same as the municipalities in that formal sense means a lot, and that is why I would ask the gentlemen of the HNS not to touch it because it doesn't cost anyone that status. Why delete the status of one Buzet who doesn't have 10,000 inhabitants or Bujam or Novigrad or what I know about Chabra. Why take the municipal court and so on? That status has no right to challenge them. The question of the referendum proposed by the HNS should simply be defined. However, it shall not be initiated on the basis of the request of a third of the members of the representative body or at the request of the Commissioner himself. I think that's the kind of, uh, motion that's irresponsible. It is clear that members of the representative body cannot have a binding mandate. But not even this left-to-right wandering, not that it's not moral, it's simply degradation. Like that HSP guy in Big Gorica. Looks like he took a little from both left and right. In Article 47, the three-quarter majority protected the mayor, the mayor from recalling now, like, bears. Why? Because the chief will always lead the list and then the question is, who's going to replace him? Then comes the referendum, and the most likely mistrust will be voted if half of those who went out on it says "No" to the chief. Now, gentlemen, you can't do that to all of us. The first thing to say is how many of them he has to go out to be considered a referendum in the first place. Is that one third, is that one half plus one vote and so on. It's a citizen. In Croatia, however, we now see the elections of no more than a third of the citizens, which will say that the squires of this post-election Istria, and now we throw them just one bone to gnaw. So in the council, you have to get a vote in the council for someone's shift, which is simply impossible, but one third is enough to open the debate, so we'll keep gentlemen discussing someone's reason for, the reason for the shift, but we won't be able to replace it. And I assure you it's bad, that it doesn't lead to anything. That such norms simply cannot live. The election for the local board, and I'm going to say, it needs to be lifted. In all small units, it makes no sense that 20, 50, no more than 100 citizens decide and the cost is the same as for the elections. And he doesn't decide anything later. In Zagreb, elections for local committees may make sense, but in one Cerovlje I assure you they do not. All in all, Croatia clearly needs a reform of local self-government far more than the electoral legislation itself because it is not important, I would say in terms of terms but in terms of money and powers. Unfortunately, in 2000, the coalition is a pure proportional system, I dare say made a dharma in the 2000 elections, and then there must now be electoral reform at local level, even if there will be no more independent lists in what position they are in today's elections, but there will also be lots of things. The essence of local self-government is, above all, radical decentralisation. That everything that does not fall within the strict jurisdiction of the state authorities, which is the military, monetary policy, foreign affairs, justice, part of the police, public works, for example. Auto-roads and part of finance currently, we currently bring down local self-government by strengthening cities, especially the county. But this must also be accompanied by fiscal decentralisation because there is no music on the people's side without money. It is not the goal of someone asking the government to get something but simply to have enough money left for him to be able to think autonomously about his needs. So what is it to do to the State if this does not happen to the country radically decentralisation? The government will deal only with protests regardless of what it has forbidden here and, these protests in St. Mark's Square with or through a pact with trade unions and on the other hand will have full control over local self-government but it's real, I don't think that's promising. 'Cause we're all gonna tap into place and fall into living mud. Therefore, bearing in mind the fact that the Government will not go into decentralisation but there is no other way but to trust us clearly at the local level in themselves and their pecks. To build an economy, but once again I want to say that these legal proposals are not perspective and you will see for yourself which dharma will create at the local level when they start to apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42306	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the Proposer of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to react after my colleague Cain's exposure so that there is no confusion in further discussion, especially for the media. In order to discuss our bill and to give evaluations and interpret the provisions first, it is necessary to read it and then conduct a discussion. First, the provisions on the status of cities. In our bill of law, it is the same as in the current law, so the status of cities and conditions for obtaining the status of the city have not changed at all. Or even now, the norm is numbered, and the exceptions are given, I quote: "exceptionally where there are specific reasons for this historical, economic, geotransport city can also be claimed to be a place that does not meet the conditions of paragraph 1. of this article. So I didn't think of any city in Istria taking away the status of the city. But that's also the law in the current law. Secondly, as regards doubts about the results of the referendum, the conditions of its success, the voter's response to the referendum, and when the decision was taken in the referendum is not the subject of this Act and the Republic of Croatia has a special law on the referendum which regulated all these issues. Thus, by reading this Law, and by discussing the regularity of the referendum, the Law on referendums should also be read. And then we got the whole thing. Third, colleague Cain has objected to our proposal to describe the recall referendum as a three-quarters decision by the representative body. We also had a two-thirds proposal. We decided to write three-quarters, but I said we were willing to accept good arguments to be both a two-thirds or a half majority. This is the first reading. So the arguments are important. I don't think so. It's the arguments in the functioning of the representative body. How to facilitate decision-making and, on the other hand, not fully enable the minority to initiate the debate. So if we're not going to give one third of the councilors the opportunity to put on the agenda of questioning the leaders then we're going to have a dictatorship of the majority over the minority. And that is contrary to the fact that the minority in the representative body at local level also has the possibility of initiating and such discussions. Fourthly, in terms of local self-government, I will never propose any reductions in the right of local self-government, more rigorous rules of play for them and a different model of choice because I believe that local self-government is a component of local self-government and that by touching or hitting at the local self-government level so far we weaken local self-government. I understand fellow Caine's attempts at his performances, arguments and suggestions to train Croatia, but I don't accept it. Because I think local self-government works a lot better in Međimurje than in Istria. Because I've heard him for eight years in the Parliament saying that the Istrian County doesn't have any damage to the country. We under the same laws on local and regional self-government and the same Law on the financing of local and regional self-government have not one square but much more of that property. So you can do the money in different ways and then cry later that you don't have something, but it's not the result of the law, it's the incompetence of regional self-government and then you come to Zagreb and cry that you don't have something. Well, that's the easiest. But we did not write this bill based on the experience of Međimurje, or Istria, but we respected the fact that we both have Slavonia and Baranja and Lika and Dalmatia and where there are more and less experiences. I could personally be more extreme, more detailed, more rigorous, but then I'm not fair to the others. There are no same conditions of development from media culture, media freedom, media coverage, traditions in local self-government. Some of us were in Austria, some of us were not in Croatia, so some of us inherited grantines and catastrians from Austria, and others did not. So we respect that fact. Finally, by discussing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and saying that it introduces decentralisation or further decentralisation is the culmination of the lack of recognition of the legislation of this State, because this law and the existing one states that special laws are designed and determine the powers and competences of local and regional self-government, and this law does not establish any powers and obligations so long as the parent and those specific laws do not regulate it. As much as we have in this law, and this is not an election but a law on regional self-government, we will give power to local self-government to the Law on pre-school education, primary education, secondary education, road transport, or road transport, communal economy, fire protection, local funding, there is a decentralisation, not in this law. And this law did not metropolise Croatia. The metropolisation of Croatia produced the Law on the financing of local self-government, which is the law and our amendments that we offered against which counterpart Cain voted when he was on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42308	Correction of the quote, honourable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42309	Mr. Lesaru teach someone else, this is an experiment that is a disaster, not in Istria, but in Croatia. Second, to start correcting the wrong allegations. She's not coming to... the poster that she doesn't have but to leave what Istria has, hers. Istria is not asking anyone to do anything but to leave her at least part of what's coming true down there. God forbid to train Croatia and perhaps elsewhere would be an unemployment rate of 6.1%, export coverage 100%, etc. Second, third. You're saying you're not taking the city's status once. You take it Article 5, where it literally states that the city is the unit of local self-government in which the county is based and every place that has more than 10 thousand inhabitants. So you take him and Bujam and Novigrad, etc. But I don't know if you wrote the law or if someone planted it on you, but then it would be correct to inform the author of the text that he referred through you to the parliamentary procedure. So much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42310	My colleague Cain, and... The legislator doesn't take anything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That law is in debate, and his fate is uncertain, so don't accuse him of taking anything. Honorable representative Ivan Kolar, on behalf of the representative of the HSS. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42311	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry. So when it comes to the proposal for a law on local and regional (regional) self-government, it is good to remember actually the structure before the first law is passed. The fact that the Republic of Croatia is now a somewhat decentralised country in a way and form itself, however, it remained highly centralised by its fiscal system. Not to repeat those funds where the state budget is 90, 91, 92% of the funds, local self-government and regional self-government, or 7 or 9 or 10, but what we agree on. The fact itself says that the issue is not in this law, and that is well said, but in fiscal policy. The powers that local self-government and regional and regional have are so important for the very life of each individual as a citizen that those units of local administration that have a budget weak simply are not able to do so. I'll try a quick quick self-rule section of the municipality to count. The arrangement of settlements and housing, the spatial-urban planning, I think we're all here as parrots established that actually space-plan documentation is the stumbling block of the country's development at all from illegal construction that I don't know everything not, and that's just the fact that the fiscal capacity of local self-government is so weak that it's simply representative or executive, all of which the bodies, are not able to do it because they don't have money. Communal activities, we make sure every day walking from place to place and different degrees we see how much someone is communally equipped. Somewhere there's a communal infrastructure actually up to the top, and there's no such basic living conditions anywhere. Taking care of children, first preschools, kindergartens and everything else, we can easily agree on how many there are and how much it is available to each individual. Social care of nursing and powerless households where, which and what units of local administration are celebrating. Primary health care, I'm afraid of education and primary education is being placed within the community and the city. I think it's a little too ambitious to expect it to be a preschool education, yes, but basic education doesn't. Culture, physical culture and sport, consumer protection, protection of the promotion of the natural environment there would be much to talk about because the inability to do so is all, fire and civil protection. And now the county clearly continues education, health care, spatial-urban planning, economic development, transport, transport infrastructure, etc. So all these responsibilities that local self-government, regional, regional self-government has are dependent on incomes that are now as they are, practically insufficient and cannot be met. Therefore, I think that this proposal of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government or Amendments and the addition of proposals on local and regional self-government are welcome in the part where at least a little assistance to representative bodies means separation between the representative and the executive part, in the part where it was now impossible to function, practically where the municipal council was both. I was saying this for the last time, and I am grateful to the promoter that he followed the remarks because it is impossible for a council session to prepare a proposal, to make a proposal and to assign to him who executes it. That's why, if I didn't know how unique the management department was willing to do it, but at one session one point, she just didn't want to know. The proposal, adoption and enforcement must have its course, the possibility of discussion and ultimately decision-making. That's why this is well-detected, that you need to separate the headship. Now for us smaller local communities, it is less important whether or not the headmaster can, whether it should or should not be, because these are smaller headships that are operationally able to do the grotesque work where there is no need to convene a council. Furthermore, if this fiscal moment is well reflected and if it enters it then these laws have their basis and despite my predecessor who says this is an experiment. This is an improved status of the municipality, the city and the county in a way that enables it to function simply somewhere better, any doubt, in the law are now eliminated. I've already told some of them. However, we should not stop at the decentralisation started in 2001 where some cities have received and are doing them well. So, the decentralised funds that come through them and those obligations they also exercise, and that transfer of powers, responsibilities and resources from several levels of government, i.e. from central to local level, is necessary to continue. It is necessary to continue in a way that citizens feel that care is being led at the lowest level. The easiest contact is established at the lowest level, but one level more has a lot of deaf phone, just to say. And such demands do not feel like their own. Furthermore, it is important that the government's intention to maintain the subsidiarity of local self-government and regional self-government in a way that decisions taken in the second degree are not subject, but that the secretary of state said, only in the central state administration, but that eventually their, let's say, intentional law enforcement is controlled at that level that belongs. Because it's not all the same to bring, I don't know, on the school board, who's to be president of the school board under the new law and now the central office has to follow it. It's known to be the Ministry of Culture or otherwise. And this solidarity that has been decentralised so far should continue, but in a larger form, in a way that at least in a smaller part of each of our residents, our beautiful infrastructure is available, all of these, all of those rights that we should have. In fact, we are trying all the time to discuss the uniform development of the Republic of Croatia, trying to impose some high standard all the time. However, we forget that some local communities are simply not able to do so themselves and that they should be guided by the so-called uniform development with central government, but through decentralised funds through local self-government that knows best to do so. Furthermore, if the norms are prescribed, they are determined at the state level for the execution of local self-government, then they must have their basis, again fiscal capacity, and in any way whether it is possible for the local community itself to do so or through decentralised funds. So we have so far had the regulation of certain requirements, norms, acts, implementation in the final, and no means were provided for. And therefore, in the process of implementing the central administration to the local community, it is necessary to strictly take care of rights and obligations in a way that we do not come into college. In one part, this is carried out elegantly, possibly, already said about Zagreb in what way and how these funds are obtained. It's the part that needs to be taken care of in a uniform way. And again, once again, that the existing model of funding for local and regional self-government should be seen as a temporary model, as the beginning of which changes should be consistently proposed. There have already been more quality examples in the matter of the government today in the way the profit tax was distributed. Because it is inadmissible that, let's say, a order of 100 million kunas is earned on one production plant, let's say, in our area and we don't even get a kuna to get it deployed in the City of Zagreb in the way that this work organisation can do it. Such that the key to the problem is really in the amendments, the additions to the Law on the financing of local, regional self-government in a way that respects specificities and tries to help this Law be in the function of equating the development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia and at least that every resident feels that he is being cared for. Therefore, the HSS will support the proposal, the government's proposal for a law on local and regional self-government in this section as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42312	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42313	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Today in Croatia we have 560 units of local self-government, 420 municipalities and some 140 cities, plus 21 counties and the City of Zagreb. I'd like to know, and I suppose that would interest most of us sitting here, how many of these municipalities and cities are actually functional units of local self-government. Based on my experience as an agent and as an example of a politician, a tour of certain counties, which is actually a good part of our counties. My experience suggests that perhaps only after these local elections are a good part of the local self-government units, they are not of course in Istria, nor in Međimurje, but they are in most of Croatia. In fact, only now may they have a chance to establish themselves as units of local self-government in the right sense of that word. That they do not live on donations, that they do not live on the budget, that they do not live on what is possibly coming to Zagreb or other places to their environments. That, in the right sense, words live as units of local self-government that take care of infrastructure and development opportunities, most of them could not have until these elections. And that's why it seems to me that with this initiative that actually corresponds to what our internal need is and what is part of our obligations, which is decentralisation in the state, that the initiative that comes from both the government and the initiative that comes from our colleagues from the CNS is actually an attempt to respond to these needs, but I'm not sure that there was one other answer that we could say is a solution to what we need. The government's proposal partially extends the powers of units of local self-government, but for many units of local self-government, many municipalities and cities are asked what they will do, what money they are, and what means of money they will actually be able to deal with both the issue of education and the issue of social care and child care and the whole series of issues when they do not actually have the resources they could have. Many of these here and my former colleague Kolar cite an example of Zagreb and companies based in Zagreb, many of them also live in Osijek and work in Vukovar, or live in Sibenik and work in Knin by no means contribute to Knin nor Vukovar. I would hate to deny it either Sibenik or Osijek, but these cities or Vukovar of this type of tax actually have no use and at the same time they are plagued by enormous unemployment and the ability to move in the right and full sense of that word. So these are tiny indicators of what we should actually do. Here today we heard on the Committee on Human Rights that this is only one step when we talk about a government that is heading towards functional decentralisation or at least creating assumptions for functional decentralisation. But indeed without fiscal decentralisation, as most of the colleagues who spoke here said, there is no unit of local self-government in the full sense of the word, neither the county nor the cities nor the municipalities. This does not mean that someone should be taken away but simply that the whole thing should be so drawn up that these examples of income issues are taken into account, of taxation issues so that units of local self-government can function so that all capital is not left or left in the City of Zagreb, and neither tomorrow in what we call large cities based on this bill, because we are actually going to get a situation now that besides one big city, in addition to what we call a metropolis, we are now going to get a whole series of similar situations, and that actually around them municipalities and smaller towns will not actually have opportunities for elementary development, i.e. for elemental survival. As for trying to improve communication between the central state administration of local self-government units when it comes to what we call general acts, so far it has been an opportunity to improve the matter. Whether it is the Ministry of Justice whose jurisdiction it was to form this Government, or to this convocation of the Parliament, whether it is a central state administration office, but unfortunately it did not work. Of course, it's not quite clear to us whether it didn't work because the local self-government units didn't want it or because there was no adequate reaction initiative or monitoring of the whole thing in the central state office, so I'm going to refrain from assessing where the problem should actually be sought. However, there is a whole series of situations in which they illustrate that this communication was not working, that point of communication where the state must actually be present simply has not been achieved. I hope that this improvement defined in Article 56a of this Government proposal regarding the representation of national minorities not only in representative bodies but also in the executive bodies, bodies of the administration and their services that this article will in fact remove those difficulties that are currently emerging and those inconsistencies of the statutes of municipalities, counties and cities with the Constitutional Law that we currently have, along with the proposal that the Committee has at this session today had, is also a question of representation in the executive authorities of this law. Finally, the issue of the HNS proposal to the PGS regarding the Law on Local Self-Government. That's what my other colleague will talk about in tomorrow's debate, but I'd say just one sentence. The key issue is the relationship between the directly elected mayor, mayor and mayor and the municipal city council and the county assembly. I'm afraid the HNS proposal didn't properly define that relationship either. And while this relationship is not properly defined and until an adequately valid solution for this relationship is found to be involved in this can indeed be called an experiment, as colleague Cain says. The referendum, which is foreseen as a key instrument for resolving possible crisis relations between directly elected mayors, mayors and mayors on one side of the council, i.e. the assembly on the other side, I am afraid that there is a rather complex and additionally complicated mechanism for our current circumstances, and therefore I would suggest to the colleagues of the CNS that they actually consider this coordination mechanism because there are probably other ways besides this referendum and on the other hand, if we really want a more direct influence of the citizens on local government if we really want to break the elements of the partyocracy that prevent the growth of more independent local leaders because of the party lists and the like, and then that I think that it is a much better way to strengthen local self-government than just changing one model to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42314	Thank you. Club of HSLS DC LS respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42315	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would actually start my presentation with a mirror image like this, which is to look at ourselves and say how we have been acting for the past 13 years with regard to our relationship as parliamentarian towards local self-government and administration. Let's be honest that we had some more of the smaller ones, so we almost didn't have a session when we didn't increase the number of municipalities. It would be good to remember there somewhere between Christmas 92 and New Year's when we were changing that one system into another system, how many municipalities, how many cities, and then our efforts came down to creating new municipalities and turning some municipalities into cities, and we could almost say that some success of some representatives measured how much they could produce new municipalities and how many old municipalities they could convert, transfer to get the status of the city. And if actually the real questions, the questions whether it really corresponds to certain financial and material possibilities, certain environments we didn't care too much about, and so the number of municipalities increased beyond me seems a hundred, the number of cities started with about seventy, some were 130 again. All we had was luck, we had to stop at the county number, there was nothing we could do about it. And then it was clear and then some people were saying that some things were simply to change as we changed that system, those 105 if I didn't cheat municipalities in the former Socialist Republic of Croatia so we came to this number to say almost six hundred units of local self-government. And then, normally, in such situations when working mechanically, it wasn't completely ignored when we then crossed the national model of the electoral system, went down to the smallest unit of local self-government, some municipalities that maybe numbered barely a thousand and some even fewer inhabitants. And this is how we were supposed to be satisfied with it. On the other hand, and then some of us here were saying that this monotypic approach is really inadmissible, that the same rules of the game apply to the municipalities of the very hundreds of houses, thousands of inhabitants and cities that have over 40, 50, 70 or 100, and more than a thousand inhabitants, almost the same principles were true, and here the 12 years we've been trying to change, we have exactly the kind of state that we've been living for, in fact, that we can't stand those solutions that we've been here with a smaller or higher number of votes and voted for. I will just remind myself, there already in 1994 was this Law on Great Cities, so it was said that it was a very interesting proposal as it usually goes and that the government would take it seriously and that it would come up with its bill of law. Well, it's been 11 years and it really happened to me, but I don't really think that we've got a full shot again, but just under one of the pressures of this fact that it's rounding us up just because this life in our local environments is actually real life, that we need to change something, and the government is just under the pressure of both the public and some MPs and some club representatives come out with their bill of law. I don't think it's good and that's the number, that we won't solve it much again. When I proposed my Law on Great Cities a little bit earlier in the spring of this year, it was not exclusive to suggest only Osijek, Rijeka and Split, but we were also aware that we should actually do a lot more of these nuances, so that there were some big cities, that there were small towns, but I had no courage and in some way and political correctness wouldn't let me write a law that I didn't know applied to cities that had tens or twenty, or thirty thousand inhabitants. After all, there is a state administration in the government, there are people who are paid for it that could come out with certain laws and that would be, or there is, this possibility of comparatively comparing it to see how it works in the countries of modern democracy where local self-government is not just a matter of political promotion, but really it is in some way a reality. So we got to say this solution. It is not clear to me why Rijeka, Split and Osijek were not in any way excluded, and then after that it is now, as more than 40,000 inhabitants are being built but then another concession is being made and say the centers of the county, so it seems to me that by that logic will say the Istrian County which all together does not have a large number of inhabitants actually have two large cities. It'll be Pula and Pazin. And let's say Osijek-Baranja County, which is the largest after Split, will only have Osijek. And I say again, a whole series of these solutions will happen again that are certainly not good. But the problem of decentralisation remains, in fact, our fundamental question. What is very brief, or very instructive, about how much these functions are, how much our cities and municipalities are, how functional they are, and how much they are actually able to withstand any pressure of increasing commitments and not at the same time ensuring that they can also financially monitor it. We think that this problem not only financial, material potentials of certain cities is very important but just all these cities have some history, have some story of their own that is certainly not the same. Some have museums, some have archives, some have theaters, some have galleries, and it's not, of course, that it should also be advocated that it can and should be respected in order to really get out of all these cities those opportunities they have. I have always liked to define Croatia as a country of cities, a state of cities. This urban, this what, these statutes, that these cities had already there in the Middle Ages is some fact that we can be proud not only of this as a story of a protocol use but simply of being a part and of some modern legal solutions that will then extract what is right from these cities. So I'm saying, again, I'm not, and now maybe it's not good that we're separated like this, which is why we're not looking at the whole thing again, so on the one hand, we're going to have to talk tomorrow about these electoral laws and how the city, municipal council and the county council are going to form. I'm afraid that again there are no real solutions and that these solutions will not again solve these crises that have arisen, will not return faith in politics but will still, in fact, remain on this trail that we will have an increasing number of abstinents in these elections. On this last one, it seems to me that in May of this year some 30% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia came out. I fear after all this that happened during May and June this year after these elections that the results, that the biggest and strongest party will be the party of the abstinents and that will once again prove that people are actually losing confidence in politics and yet full of our mouths here and we are all talking, should enable precisely that direct democracy, the increasing number of participations of citizens, those decisions that life actually means. We're just taking care of the beauty of the city, taking care of the infrastructure, the communal problems, really those problems that really concern all of us. I'm afraid that neither this legal solution nor in any way contributes but simply trying to introduce an alibi of politics, and yet it seems to me that this monotypic principle that is dominant, which has marked this law there in 1992 that it is not significantly translated into political, that we are not actually introducing and several levels and several solutions that would allow us to precisely distinguish a place that has a thousand inhabitants from a place that has something more or that has a lot more than we are really introducing exactly that national perception of the electoral system down to the lowest possible level, and we think that indeed in a place that counts for example a thousand residents there is no point in repeating the choices that repeat and which are only one bad copy of the solution from a national level, so more than there is no 5% more than a threshold then where there is nowhere and where you choose a council of 11 or 13 members, then certainly the real threshold is not five, but where there is actually one percent more than where and where you can make a small choice with a few families. I'm saying, that's why I'd say there's a place where we'd better actually think about whether right now this model of so many municipalities, cities and counties corresponds to the financial possibilities, the material possibilities of this country. How many municipalities does it count, cities can actually withstand all these demands being made in front of citizens? In our case, the most frequent decentralisation is carried out by putting down commitments, but that these obligations are not followed by, with this financial "subport", and this really all together creates one very, very bad, one very bad feeling and those people who, who get the mandate, have a big problem with this mandate and justify it. I was here on several occasions saying that it really isn't, that it's not possible that the city administrations aren't able to worry about the beauty of the city, that they don't betray, that they don't have, that the permits of the location, that they're not useful in their intelligence, but they're in the intelligence of someone else, and that actually the officials who don't have any, no test of the public checking are actually the ones who are sitting and making very important decisions, actually all of the sodium, all of the animosity is just going towards people who are coming out with their own programs and trying to solve these problems, but it's simply making them impossible. And we said that it's not a problem either of these or those authorities, left or right, or I don't know the centrist, but it's just that our structure is so that there, that these power centers are somewhere else, that they're very, that they're secretive and that in this way whether it's now the cunning of the government so that in that way, in fact, the problems with, transfer, drop somewhere, somewhere else, but it's, it's this fact that there really doesn't make sense that some state office, the office has more power than, I don't know, there't have a city administration that goes into elections. Some anonymous clerk is the one who makes decisions that, I don't know, concern the future of urban development. Not to talk about how to explain to a citizen, an average citizen even, no... but even well informed that in the city, I don't know, in the city you're only responsible for unclassified roads, and that roads, I don't know, state and county belong to someone else when all the citizens of that city know that these roads are driven. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That it's actually roads that are in town, and that you, I don't know, you can't just when it happens, I don't know, some big accident then you can, I don't know, provoke to put on, put on a traffic light and so on. That's what I'm saying, these are all the things that a legislator would have to do more to appreciate, in fact, these thoughts that are already not since yesterday but 12, 13 years are repeated from time to time. I've always said that they're not party-marked, but they're kind of life-like, life-declarating, and it would be good to listen to that, that life. Here, here from... technical details and solutions no, I don't want to comment, but I can only actually tell you exactly when it's said that we are still a rather centralised, centralized country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say there's talk about this cooperation between the state administration and this association of our cities and municipalities. There are countries where there are more of these associations. We do not know if the memory of my colleagues Obuljen and I were headed there somewhere in the Council of Europe, precisely this congress of local self-government administrations of ninety-five years when, when Croatia was not yet a full member of the Council of Europe, we were trying to convince the Council of Europe that we had reached excellent democratic standards, that we had ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government and so on. And then I don't know where you talked to your colleagues, so I don't know in Italy there's even nine such associations that connect interestingly. So not so mechanically, but there's an interest. Of course, the interests, interests of one community, of one city are not identical. That the cities that have the hard or cities that are in the Mediterranean or cities with no museums, libraries have a very different interest than cities that don't have it, but in us there is this one, one... the association I say is more than just a mechanical collection of the fact that Croatia has so many cities and so many municipalities, and that it does not actually solve these functional and interesting, interesting interests of the citizens themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it should be commended to the fact that even though under pressure here are my colleagues from the HNS, here are my little things and these few laws that have appeared in the past few months, that this is what I think is good material just for, to prepare for others, for another reading and free colleague Pavelic, be more radical and more leper in terms of breaking some really existing relationships. I think it's going to be better for all of us, and it's going to be better, better solutions, and you're going to get our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42316	Thank you very much. Now they'd break up, pick up tomorrow at 9.30. The first is on behalf of the HSP Club, the respected representative, Pejo Trčević. After that, the Honorable Vice-President Mato Arlovic, and after that, has an individual debate. How many are you? 21 MPs and representatives for individual debates. That would be up to half past one. That's how we calculated it. Then we'd move on to these other two, to a united debate over the election of direct mayors, mayors, mayors. That would be, that would be somewhere the same afternoon tomorrow. So in the morning of Friday, we would have these two laws on mentioning the days and holidays and reports on the rights of Croatian defenders. That would be the vote on Friday afternoon for what we're absorbing. And colleague Lesar's fate is alleative, uncertain with a high degree of certainty. Thank you very much. Tomorrow at 9.30. Gentlemen, we continue with the session and the debate on the proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. It is up to the club of HSP MPs, the respected representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42318	Mr. President, secretary of state with associates, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. On behalf of the Croatian Party, I will talk more about the proposal to the Government on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government than the proposal of the Law of the CNS, because we keep the HSP club that this idea of the HNS of this Act is good whether, that it is not sufficiently professionally elaborated and that there is still a lot to be changed and complemented. These amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government should, in fact, define the competences of local units, and the mechanisms of control over the legality of their work, as well as the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of control mechanisms. A large number of local self-government units, as well as employees in its various administrative bodies, were important and directly affected by the level of public spending, while on the other hand the centralisation of many administrative activities prevented the effectiveness of the work of the local self-government body. Indeed, the existing system of funding units of local self-government is extremely inappropriate, since it prevents the development of municipal infrastructure, and as such is unable to respond to the basic needs of citizens in the field of health care, social care, employment, education, culture and environmental protection. The Proposer of this Law stresses the promotion of best practices in local and regional (regional) self-government, and the motivation of local self-government units in implementing the above-mentioned practice, without defining in this proposal what is a good practice and what is actually the best practice. The establishment of large cities is proposed, the definition of their detour. The proposal is that the status of a large city has cities of more than 40,000 inhabitants who are also economic, financial, cultural, health, traffic hubs for the development of a wider environment. With this proposal, these large cities would take over some work from the county districts, so the issue of certain construction and location permits, and other works related to construction, and spatial planning documents. The promoter has not previously given an assessment of the current situation, so the result of the application of this Act, according to our assessment, will be that some county centres with 8 or 10 thousand inhabitants will take over the mentioned jobs from the districts, and some cities that are not county centers, and have slightly less than 40,000 inhabitants, and at this point they already have public administration offices and are doing business in the district area, the question is whether these cities, by applying this and this law, will actually be able to retain the offices they have so far. The Proposer of amendments and additions to this Act provides the possibility for meetings of representative bodies, other than public and public, to be voted on by this proposal of the Law to vote on certain issues in secret. We're holding HSP and wondering where it exists so far, if there's any such practice so far. We're actually wondering whose name the councilmen are secretly voting on. I want to see and hear what my directly elected councilman wants to vote on my behalf and say about it. It is quite logical and acceptable that members of the headship should be elected by the representative body on a proposal from the head of the headship, but it is totally unacceptable that members of the headship may also be headmasters, because in the HSP we hold that these are two incompatible duties, because in that case, the headmasters, as members of the headship, would be the ones who would give themselves individual powers. In fact, we in Croatia have the rights to keep the leaders from creating politics, they should actually implement politics. They are professionals employed by the basis of a public tender. We're in HSP, and we're holding that it's actually the headmasters who need to stay. I'd just like to add a little bit more. It is also the proposal of this Act that individual representative bodies in units of local self-government, i.e. in smaller municipalities below 3 thousand inhabitants, also a representative body or municipal council, is actually a municipal headship, which we keep in HSP that it is negative and that it will negatively reflect for this particular local self-government and it would be good that even smaller municipalities actually have their own headships, as well as these municipalities and cities up to 10,000 inhabitants, this means between 3 and 5 members. In fact, it proved ineffective that the municipal council president would also be the municipal chief, and the municipal council would also be the headship. In fact, we from the municipal council, from the president of the municipal council, we're making a local sheriff. We in HSP support this bill that officials in local and regional, or regional self-government, have permanent and professional training and training through courses and various seminars, but it is unacceptable to use permanent verbs in connection with this problem. We're witnessing past events. Therefore, the law stipulates that all employees should be perfected, but there are no deadlines anywhere and in this proposal amendments and additions to the Law are actually used permanent verbs, without any deadlines. So the question is, then, when would the application of this Law begin, because the exact deadlines are not defined. As a conclusion, this is not about some major changes and additions to this Law, we prefer to consider some new nomotechnical changes, such as: Instead of saying "local self-government," the words "municipalities and cities" are introduced. And these changes and additions actually just define the status of large cities as a unit of local self-government. We at the HSP Club will give some amendments if our amendments that are absolutely for the better functioning of local self-government are accepted club HSP would in that case support the amendments and additions of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42319	Thank you very much. SDP club, a respected representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42320	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Let us immediately point out one, in our opinion a quite serious problem, would be said in the first way or at the first glance of a procedural nature, and in fact it is a matter of substance. We have in the debate a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and also a Proposal for a Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which is complete as a proposal. One is in the first reading, the second is the final draft of the law, and at the same time at this session we are discussing the proposal in the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, the Proposal for a Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors of Zagreb, Mayors and Municipal Commissioners proposed by the Government in the first reading and the same, similar to the law proposed by the HNS-PGS Club. Dear colleagues and colleagues seem to us that this draft law amending and supplementing the law as a final proposal would not be able to vote on it until the debate in the first and second readings and on election laws for local, regional self-government as well as for the State Election Commission, and, among other things, for substantive reasons, because some provisions relating to the position of mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, etc., and also the heads of state are actually slightly different in electoral laws than that of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government on the one hand and on the other hand, rather than what is substance-solved in the law itself are actually changing and mixing competences. For all these reasons, we are making the first proposal to hold a debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government in the third reading. The second proposal we want to point out is the fact that amendments and additions to laws are actually surface nature. While the proposals of the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors, etc. In fact, a major conceptual change and in such a situation is a very different issue of relations between representative bodies, chieftains and executives, mayors, mayors and mayors, and in such a situation it is quite certain that this issue should also be harmonised and not enough to stop at amending and supplementing that law as it is here... The third thing we would particularly like to point out is the fact that the question should definitely be resolved in order to amend and supplement the law as a means, especially when it comes to the organisational issue, when it comes to designing, etc. It actually solves the problem or not. We should not even make assumptions until the end of this problem because we must not forget that the organization is only a means of achieving content and goal, and that new issues need to be addressed in the context. In this respect, the amendment and addition of the law actually suffers serious objections. We despite trying to loosen up a bit so-called. The monastic concept of units of local self-government through the introduction of the concept of large cities, we practically retain a monastic approach because in jurisdiction when you take the new jurisdiction of the municipalities and cities in relation to the county you have almost identical things to do and we will only see whether a multi-type form of municipalities and cities is introduced to us only by amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy or the new Law on the municipal economy, and not this. And that is why we think it is necessary to resolve this issue in a different way. Fourth. The fact is that we finally have to deal with certain data that we're standing on and about which we didn't want to have to finally start taking care of because we can't ignore the fact that in so many units of local self-government as we have, there's actually a serious problem opening up. I can agree on behalf of our club with those who have said that small municipalities have also made their contributions and have achieved certain results in this experience which have shown where they are functional, but unfortunately there are also such municipalities that have practically brought themselves into the situation that they are in losses and not only are in losses but that they cannot address the fundamental issues that the law prescribes as the basic content of the local self-government unit related to the exercise of rights, please not units of local self-government but citizens of local self-government, the unit of local self-government is a means of exercising the right to local self-government of our citizens. And in such a situation, we have to seriously discuss what it is and why it can happen, for example, that we have the smallest municipality with 137 inhabitants, the largest municipality that has over 15 thousand inhabitants, and at the same time we have actually cities that are below 10,000 inhabitants, etc. That's where the question is, what are we going to do? What are we gonna do about it? And not only from this aspect, but from the aspect of the number of structures from different forms of unit of local self-government, which at the same time have the same practical competence. We must practically not forget the fact that we have the county as a unit of regional self-government, then we have as a unit of local self-government city and then we have a municipality and a small municipality. Now next to the city we get a big city and then finally as a special form of self-government, we have local self-government. Be careful, this is a large number of organizational forms, and it is impossible for us to have in all these organizational forms the same or almost the same competences for all forms of organization. What is an attempt with large cities, you know it is actually a light breeze and it is not enough for a simple reason if the criteria proposed here are applied, thereby giving up the criteria set out in the current law in the local self-government system, so that instead of 30,000 suggest 40,000 inhabitants then it is somewhere 7-8 cities in the Republic of Croatia that could exercise certain rights in this respect. Fourth. We believe that it is not enough and cannot be talked about the serious reform of local self-government unless at the same time it is covered and some issues that need to be done. It is necessary to make the centralisation of jobs according to the fiscal capabilities of the local self-government unit and to establish a multi-type form of cities and municipalities. Our Constitution requires that the operations of local self-government units are carried out in accordance with their financial capabilities, and if the local self-government unit is established and there are no financial opportunities to carry out these tasks then it should actually be subsidized by the State. But we haven't solved it properly, but we give it to a little bit of everyone who's a little bit of a threat, so we give some money and then the sausages do it, but not according to the jobs that they should do, and we practically have a situation that's not good, and more and more of these entities are showing up that they actually account for the state on the one hand, and that the state is doing the controls where they come in, that the jobs are done, and where the money's being spent is gone, on the one hand. And on the other hand, we are increasingly more and more having a state impact on local self-government which they objectively did not want to do, in fact, reducing the right to the local self-government of our citizens. We have therefore closed the negative circle and in such a situation we must discuss a new reform of local self-government, not the cosmetic changes proposed by the government. The concept of a colleague from the HNS can be discussed, whether he is the best or worst or medium, etc. about that, but it's quite certain that it's one concept that's been offered. We must therefore seek the opportunity to obtain a new concept of local self-government. Of course, there is a tendency to create new units of local self-government when there is no justification. And what's the excuse? The constitutional criterion that it can carry out certain tasks and that there are financial opportunities for the financing of these units of local self-government to carry out these tasks so that citizens' rights to local self-government and other issues can be exercised, that the state can leave the business to local self-government units if it provides, of course, the original means to carry out these tasks. We also have a situation here that is not about decentralisation, but about trying to dissipate obligations especially financial and labour by the state, because the state has tried to transfer actually jobs for which there are insufficient resources or sufficient personnel to the units of local self-government, so we will see what will become of all things, and then basically about these jobs there are no appropriate solutions or meeting the needs and direct interests of citizens, and in such a situation we are actually causing the dissatisfaction of the citizens themselves. Public property management tasks should be transferred to local self-government units and the issue of one part of the public partnership, a public-private partnership where local self-government units with their property can be opened because the private sector is entering... jobs or even more specifically. It is necessary to open up the entrepreneurial function of local self-government units that, in a quality way, without national patronage, but of course with respect to the law and market action, they can manage the property in order to meet the direct interests and needs of their citizens in order to actually open up a development component, not just this meeting of communal needs. Because if we leave at the level of communal needs then no matter what we have the system of local self-government, we're actually left on the communal system from the former system, de facto. A similar situation in which it must be resolved is the issue of relations on the political aspect of the formation of a representative body and the executive body of local self-government units around the election. And this issue certainly needs to be resolved, but not only from the aspect of meeting the needs of the executive operational authority but also from the aspect of meeting the effectiveness of direct interests and the needs of those who have the right to local self-government, which are citizens. But then we'll talk about it on behalf of the club when the election laws come. Of course, there is a need to ensure that in local self-government, work is carried out directly on life in the local environment and of interest to the local population. You know, we've re-taxed the amendments and the additions to the law and counted what the Constitution says. And the Constitution writes especially those jobs. Now, within these jobs, certain units of local self-government should be performed, so they will not have the same level of these jobs in the municipality that has the 137 inhabitants and I don't know, a city of 80,000 inhabitants. And even less can happen if these things happen that happen or are based on the criteria laid down in the law itself. Of course, it should ensure that the administration in the local self-government is on the one hand the service of citizens, on the other hand by the executive authority and the representative body in carrying out their decisions. Therefore, we must finally clear that part and drag or break the umbilical link between the administration or the administration in local self-government with the state administration, wanted-not. After all, this requires the Constitution and the concept of local self-government itself. The public work and transparency of decisions and processes should be strengthened, and in this context a particular issue is raised, the issue of actually deciding and managing the process, and the crisis processes in local self-government, which from the aspect of relations between the representative body and the future executive authority, if the executive authority and the mayor are elected by direct means. You know, on the one hand, you will strengthen the responsibility of the directly elected authority, which is fine, if we accept the direct choice in the law. But on the other hand, you will demote the councilors in the representative body to participate in a process in which they do not decide and manage. They will only switch to those points where they matter. So, but then. We'll talk about it again. But what is important, it must be dealt with in substance in the Law on the System of Local Self - Government, which this proposal did not cover at all. The issue of individual activities and strengthening the citizens' initiative, and in this context, a particular issue of the situation, for example, of young and old citizens of this country. Because, you know, it's quite clear that under the Constitution it's not possible to introduce, I don't know, the possibility of young people participating in elections under 18 in... But that doesn't mean that they can't have some special council of young people in whom they can participate from 14, 16 or more years of age who would have an advisory or other function in relation to the city, or municipal council, with the aim of discussing the position of young people in order to actually allow these young people to hear their voice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They do not decide but encourage, give initiatives and discuss certain issues. In this context, it is particularly important, and in this part we support some of these changes, which are covered by changes and additions such as the issue of education, such as the issue of relations between major cities, and that a part of the administrative work is left to large cities. However, when leaving the administrative offices of the state administration, special resources and special staff must be provided to ensure this, etc., etc., in order to be able to carry out these tasks. But of course, we also have some individual remarks that, in our opinion, should be further resolved when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. It is impossible to accept the concept, for example, if the representative body implements the proposal by the municipal chief on the proposal of the municipal mayor and the mayor does not make a decision confirming trust in the headship, it is not considered that the headship is entrusted with trust. Oh, yeah? Oh, yeah? How about the Parliament, if the Prime Minister addresses the parliament, asks for a question of trust and the Parliament does not vote for confidence. Could that prime minister stay? Let's be realistic. You see, we propose in this law that the mayor and the mayor may remain, if the council does not vote his trust. So what's the council doing? Then he needs to be disbanded. It's not functional at all. In conditions as long as we have a representative body with this kind of executive authority that it's now in. The second question is when it is elected directly, then the council will not be able to decide. They'll be able to launch the initiative, but as long as that part is like this, it just couldn't go. Second, we would like to make an individual observation. It is impossible to enter into this Law that it takes even 1/3 members of a representative body to initiate a trust procedure. But at the same time, you have in the Constitution that it is enough 1/5 to raise the question of trust to the minister or the government as a whole. Well, for God's sakes, I guess it's a matter of hierarchy and of some importance, much more important government and the whole state structure than, say, certain municipalities and so small, etc. We still have a lot of individual objections, but unfortunately, we don't have time to expose them all anymore. But that also points to the need for this Law to go into third reading, and that law of the CNS can be supported to go into first reading, to second reading, to see what is really conceptual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42321	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42322	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable government representatives with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It may be difficult after this momentous and detailed review, which, on behalf of the Club, said Vice President of the Parliament, our Mato Arlovic, to say something new. And I think that the government should seriously consider exactly for the best purposes what Mr Arlovic was talking about on behalf of the Club. However, for this reason, I will take a good look at something that I think is also at the moment that we are discussing already now the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local (area) and the regional self-government to say what is bothering our citizens and what, after these local elections, requires a serious analysis or at least one concern. What is the attitude of the state government towards local self-government units? It's something that's taken a worrying turn. I will only remind myself that the government has personally put itself in the service of disciplining local self-government units through its members of the government. Let's just remind ourselves of the elections in Požega, how they were provoked and active in the role of Minister Roncevic. Let's remember, that was before the regular election. Then let's just remember, here's the current shame that is shaking our public, which is causing citizens an absolute disgust at the election, towards everyone. Let us now remember the active role of Minister Vukelic, Minister of Economy and his activities in Karlovac. So, instead of the ministers dealing...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42323	What's that got to do with it, pals, with, what's that got to do with it? Never mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42324	You know what he's got?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42325	Never mind. Never mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42326	There's even a relationship...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42327	And stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42328	...which government, I know are a little bit of an unpleasant question...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42329	It's not awkward questions, but you need to stick to the subject. Here is the text of the amendment and addition of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42330	That's right. Both in power and in the announcement of arguments, Mr. President, the government is saying it will motivate units of local self-government to act. Well, I'm talking about that motivation. That is, how the government detimises, or generates problems. And she is just authorized and obliged, and by the letter of this Law, to control the legality of the work of local self-government units. We see how many questions are being asked by our units of local self-government, how much trouble it is when it's uncomfortable under the governing structure, it happens in local self-government units then there's no answer. We're even waiting for regular elections to answer the question, so let's remember the Supremes, Mr. President, for you to silence me on these unpleasant issues right now. When the HDZ party signed the illegal situation in the Supremes. Together with all the existing parties, but the government wouldn't mind the SDS to its state-level partner to end the illegal situation in the Supremes, so there came a regular election, so the thing was then a dog, but you see how the citizens know it, I'm saying what the citizens think you went through in the Supremes, it was defeated HDZ, how you passed in Požega, so I'm saying for the sake of common interest, because people have best said what they think of such behavior. Here's an example, we are called here to talk about the legality of the application of the Law, which is with the application of the Constitutional Law on Minority Rights, when in Zadar, the City Council will not be allowed, there is no presence of the following on the list beyond the election results, and according to the application of the Constitutional Law on Minority Rights and the Law on Elections for Local Self-Government Units Next on the list that has SDP, but which doesn't even change the state of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42331	You're going to open up the debate, you're going to turn off the topic, you're going to cause a series of polemics.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42332	That was a bit of an introduction to see in what context we can look at this problem of concrete solutions. We have a lot of confusion here we are invited here to talk about the consistency of the legal system so that it can be respected, we are discussing here now this law and we have the next proposal for a law on the direct selection of mayors, Commissioner, we welcome that intensity. However, this Law in Articles 16 and 17 specifically states that it cannot be more concretely said that this would be eliminated by the representative body in the direct elections of the elected mayor, mayor and mayor. These norms, here you see both Articles 16 and 17 and at all this change that we are discussing here is almost absurd without the adoption of these complete laws at the same time, that's what I'm talking about and what I think we all need to keep in mind together for the sake of application and for the control of legality and how our units of local self-government will behave. This law is already now if it should have gone before then it should have resolved this dilemma, and I welcome here the extension of the authority of the cities, but unfortunately our observation is not respected, and my own personal to the difficulties that arise in practice between the jurisdiction of the city and the county, and also the way that enables the granting of certain competences, the belongings of the county to the city when we do not know which way it will be resolved, there is no procedure at all. So that there and units of local self-government where there's a serious will to do it just doesn't know which way. But I'm talking about a serious problem that can occur between the city and the county about giving up jurisdiction when there are some responsibilities that do not correspond specifically to the county or the city and the acquisition of jurisdiction between the county and the city. And what is the essence of decentralisation and even the possibility of accomplishing jobs is fiscal decentralisation, it is the transfer of the central state's funds to units of local self-government that did not act in part, but which is specifically talked about by counterpart Arlovic, where it applies to certain units of local self-government that are at the mercy of the authorities. So listen to the elections being spoken now it's good that in the local unit corresponds to such a power that is adequate, which is similar to the central government, however, there is at least that this is happening, however, it does not happen because there are smaller investments everywhere and regardless of political furniture. But this is one way in which the central government disciplines local self-government units and announces and gives the citizens a message that the central government will then treat local self-government units. It is quite strange and quite unacceptable that the applicant did not have his own professional service, the Bureau of Law listened and accepted in that section that it proposed the regulation laying down the jurisdiction to resolve cases in work, but was left with a special law. For what? This is the place to be exactly the consistency I was talking about earlier, these are the norms that need to find a solution right here in this bill. And given our size, given our conditions of law, it is a shame and there is no logical explanation why the government does not accept the concept of cities as set up and proposed to the SDP Club government, in this sense the SDP Club also submits an amendment to that very large city, seen as larger cities with more than 30,000 inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42333	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42334	I would correct the inaccuracies of colleague Anticevic where he mentions the shameful behaviour of Minister Vukelic. It is not about any shameful behaviour but about the agreement of the president of the HDZ City Organisation, which won the most votes for the city council of Karlovac and Councilman Capan, where an agreement has been reached and Mr. Capan has reached certain benefits for his electoral body. Shameful behaviour was on the other hand, which can also be confirmed by Mr. Capan and Ms. Katic, where she did not choose the means to agree to these two council members to support the SDP, from money offers and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42335	Replica's respected representative, Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42336	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Anticevic spoke of a certain political marketing where apparently SDP did not manage well in her words and some others did, however, I will remind her of something else. In the city of Sinj, where the change of power took place, general cleanups are being performed when it comes to the city administration, the leaders, etc., who are all the foundations of the Law that we are talking about today, and on the other hand I will remind you that in your period, your Government, 2000 to 2003, units of local self-government were being punished where HDZ was in power, where financial support and any other support from both the state budget, so the state public enterprises and the units were simply being punished, were not getting money, they were being stopped in development both communal and economic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42337	Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42338	You speak quite falsely and I will talk about facts, for example in Zadar and Zadar County in a town that is 3,000 years old, has not been invested more than has been invested during the coalition government, said Minister Kalmeta. And as for cleaning and cleaning, I think and I don't know where you got the guts to talk about it at all. However, listen, we can talk about words, but perhaps your actions speak best of you. And in action, and we don't mind that where you have opportunities, you put at least roughly the same quality, but you don't. And because of that, you've had to even reduce the number of ministries at national level, you don't even have people who would like to be ministers. But on the other hand, there was the administration. But I don't want to talk about it, so let's let it go now. We're talking here and I'm going to look back here at the action of Minister Vukelic in Karlovac. It's not about any legal business. It's about pure political corruption, anti-cancer activity, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42339	I have suggested, dear colleagues, that we stick to the legal part because you see when issues are raised that are related to the last local elections politically colored on any side, which has affected the election results, what are the consequences of post-election consensus and pre-determination then this leads to a clear debate. That's why it's more thoughtful to stick to the subject. State Secretary Antun Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42340	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! In Croatia, there are nearly 600 units of local self-government and after local elections, the vast majority act impeccably. There is an individual case that we need to solve here and there, but that is why we cannot create an image that does not allow local self-government to function in Croatia. In fact, it works better and better and the project of local self-government in Croatia has succeeded. I only reported to explain once again the concept of the Law on Local Self-Government and the direct choice of mayors where they try to impute that they are inconsistencies. Of course, in terms of responsibility, they are different, i.e. that the final bill retains the old model of responsibility for mayors, mayors and municipal chiefs, and that will be until direct elections are made, and direct elections under the new law when it is adopted will be when regular local elections are held, so on the third Sunday of May 2009. By then, the model of responsibility will remain as proposed in the law, and finally it writes clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42341	Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42342	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues! I think it's a good thing that at this first session of the fall session we opened an election debate and the functioning of local and regional self-government. Namely, we have only a few months passed since the elections for local and regional self-government and we have two more years until the regular elections for parliament. So this is an appropriate time to be at peace and to give enough time to discuss all these laws and that we are really not in the time-share as we usually do when we pass electoral laws. However, my point is that precisely because of the time in which we are discussing it, we did not get a whole set of laws that regulate this area. So, we started with the State Election Commission, the law we discussed last night or yesterday afternoon, and now it would have been good if we had also had the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, the Law on Direct Elections for Commissioners, Mayors, Mayors and Representative Authorities, and possibly opened a debate on any Election Law for Parliament. Perhaps we should start to discuss and finance units of local and regional self-government, and perhaps we should also discuss territorial structure in principle because if we go to greater decentralisation however financially substantial for some small municipalities, it will be insufficient. So it should certainly be more serious to discuss the decentralisation of the state and to what level it can be brought down because indeed here is what counterpart Arlovic said we have absurdities that municipalities with the same competences from several hundred residents to several thousand residents. This law, which today is in the second reading on amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, actually wants to change some things for an existing mandate in the units of local and regional self-government. He doesn't actually bring a big newspaper except so far several times initiated discussions and suggestions about so-called. Big cities. And in several, some are changing or supplementing certain part - time jobs in municipalities, cities, or county. I don't think that's enough, but if we're about to discuss really major changes in the competences of local and regional self-government, then we could possibly be satisfied with these changes for a shorter period. As for some observations, they can be repeated from the first reading because in one part they are not even accepted. I would refer to Article 6 which I will link to Article 4. In fact, Article 4 defines large cities. They are limited by 40,000 inhabitants, however, a certain exception is given and cities of county headquarters are also treated in the same way. It is only a few cities that do not meet this criterion of 40,000 inhabitants, and they would therefore, according to the definition of Article 4, have the same partial work or the same jurisdiction as large cities. In Article 6, however, only large cities can take over certain counties. I think we should let the cities of the county headquarters and it's only two or I think three cities. I'll say it on the example of the centre of Međimurje County. The city of Čakovec, according to many jobs and organization, could take on just such competences, and I also propose that the amendment be defined in the same way in Article 6, as Article 4, so that large cities that have more than 40,000 inhabitants, or cities of county headquarters, can take over certain jobs from the district. However, it has been adequately regulated by the existing law, but I do not know that a city has taken over a particular section of the county business, business in the county districts, so I think it should be clarified on what conditions and when a big city can do such a job, so I suggest that there is a definition... And because of that, you've had to even reduce the number of ministries at national level, you don't even have people who would like to be ministers. But on the other hand, there was the administration. But I don't want to talk about it, so let's let it go now. We're talking here and I'm going to look back here at the action of Minister Vukelic in Karlovac. It's not about any legal business. It's about pure political corruption, anti-cancer activity, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42343	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42344	Dear President Plasimir Mršić, both before and after the break You said Miroslav Mršić. [[/Intruder: What?]] You mean me?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42345	I said Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42346	Then, I'm sorry, we heard wrong then.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42347	Why would I cross you into Miroslav?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42348	I don't know, maybe there's a reason for that. Yeah. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I've been trying to figure out for a long time why this law goes as a second point to the fall session of the Parliament. Because I felt that after two months of our opportunity to rest, to work politically, to hang out with our voters that the first or second point or the first point would be something that was really important, actual, and what we urgently had to solve and what was going on right away. And then you could really think that this is some law that's going to start working on Friday if we say it tomorrow. They'll be in effect within eight days. So it will be possible to apply from 1 October. It would be great if it were possible. But obviously, it will not be possible to apply this because there is a whole series of obstacles and a completely undefined time to be passed, to amend 35 laws that must be amended to allow this Law to be consumed. And there is nowhere to be determined a deadline within which the Government of Parliament will subscribe the proposals of those 35 laws to be applied so that the law can be consummated. And I'm asking myself now, and you too, what is the purpose of this debate here because it's being brought in at a time when units of local self-government are preparing budgets, when units of regional self-government are preparing budgets. When various competitions are discussed, for example, for winter service according to the old law. And someone under this Law should be able to consume that right or on the other hand to comply with those obligations, to the citizens. But, well, obviously, there are no issues that we need to deal with before, urgently, because all topics such as employment, economic development, the quality of life are solved and we are dealing with something that will be solved through an even long series of sessions of this House so that units of local self-government can apply it. I personally think there is no need to define in the law that we will reward units of local self-government and that there is no need to define in the law that the compulsory education of employees is in local self-government units. Well, that's something that's meant to be. There's no need to define that. What is the essence of this Law, and what is said all the time is that there will now be a second step of decentralisation and the introduction of so-called. A term or a concept of big cities. And what we're saying today is big cities with 40,000 inhabitants, and the existing law that applies said that these are cities with 30,000 inhabitants. And today, we say that the great cities that are cities with 40,000 inhabitants will have some powers, including re-emergences that neither cities today nor cities with 30 and smaller could consume. For example, appropriate health care. No city could do so by now because it was always decided elsewhere. And now we say, "E OK, we'll give you primary health care again so that you can decide." Is it? We had in the seventh month at the Parliament here the Law on primary education and the Law on secondary education where we defined relations within it, and now we say here that great cities will care about education and education. So why haven't we already installed what's going to be here? Or next week we'll get a re-amending and supplementing the Law on Primary and Medium Education to allow cities with 30,000 inhabitants under the existing law to be the founders of high schools, which they can. But the High School Act doesn't allow it. And now we say, "No! Well, you won't be able to do that in 1.10 because we're passing the Law on local self-government that allows you to do so. You'll be able to take care of public roads. Now I ask first who will take care of the unclassified roads in the big cities. Because we don't mention unclassified roads as the jurisdiction of big cities. And the big cities have unclassified roads. Second, public roads are highways. Will the highways be taken care of by large cities in the area where highways pass through large cities? Who will open a tender for the winter service for public roads in large cities? Is it going to be 1.10? Mayor's Department of Roads say, excuse me, Mr. Mayors, would you like to open a tender for winter service on the county roads in your area, because now that's your jurisdiction? Winter service is the maintenance of public roads, is part of the maintenance of public roads. Public roads are county and state roads and highways. Whether we're going to make it possible for local self-government units, big cities, to do that. We here in Article 4 have, yes, what large cities will be able to do, that is, to their responsibilities and to say that the specific laws governing the specific activities of this article will also determine the tasks that large cities are obliged to organise, and the tasks that they can carry out. When we get the bill, it doesn't say. By the time they can achieve that right, it doesn't say. But that's why I'm talking about decentralisation here. Decentralisation is manifested and viewed only and exclusively in the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. You know, there when they say, they split up in the tax revenues of local self-government units. That there will be nothing of decentralisation to read one document of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which came out of the Ministry of Finance, which is called "The Guidelines for Budgeting in 2006. - 2009." which says local self-government units will have an increase in revenues in 2006. 6% in 2007. 6%, 2008. 6%, but not on the burden of common taxes, no, no. It's going to grow at 4%. Capital aid within the state will grow 4% at inflation level. Therefore, there is nothing of fiscal decentralisation in this country unless the Ministry of Finance knows what the state administration's office is doing and Prime Minister Sanader or Prime Minister Sanader doesn't know what the finance ministry is writing to local self-government units. The share of GDP revenue will fall. Local self-government unit from this year's 5.3 to 5.1. Therefore, we will not be forced by local self-government units. We're re-branding the law that we're going to throw in the eyes of the citizens, because we're going to tell them here, here's the decentralisation, here's the big cities, let the mayors handle some issues for you there, and let's not give them the money, let's not give them the laws that will give them, based on what they're going to be able to implement. Furthermore, Article 6, we say, in Article 19, we define that large cities are cities with 40,000 inhabitants and county headquarters, and Article 6, we say that these are only cities with 40,000 inhabitants. The question now arises what about cities between 30,000 and 40,000 residents who have consumed their rights under Article 21 of the existing law. Will they stop being founders of elementary schools and when? Will they stop dealing with education, health care, space-urban planning, which they have so far been allowed to do and when? These are questions that are simply not settled here, and I suggest, what the club representative said, that it goes definitely into the third reading. And what cities are between 30,000 and 40,000 inhabitants who can't be big cities, right? It's Mr. Samobor, Vinkovci and Djakovo. You have in the paper today that local HDZs from Vinkovci are asking you to sit here as a parliamentary majority to fight for the Vinkovci to be a big city. There is no reason that Vinkovci who now care about elementary schools can't worry about that after 1.10. Respect the amendments we gave you on that. Come on, we're trying to decentralisation that started on July 1st, 2001, when we said it was cities with 30,000 inhabitants, they showed their ability to take over these powers, let's give them more of those crumbs now, because the crumbs are being given to these. They are given public road maintenance obligations, as it is illogical that three lorries, city, county and state-run are circulating in cities today. It's unusual that three asphalters orbit public roads that each of their holes is rescinding. It's a question to discuss. This Law does not resolve this, for it is impossible that within 8 days it will be possible to apply it. In order for this Law to be applied, 35 other laws should be amended, and this is certainly impossible until the day that this Law will come into force. And secondly, there is a question of budget planning. If a local self-government unit, a big city, has to take care of public roads, then it must install it in the budget for next year, and according to budget projections sent by Minister Schuker to local self-government units it is not allowed, because this is binding paper for self-government units. So that's something we want to tell the people and the citizens...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42349	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42350	Can I finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42351	Well, that's already up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42352	What we're saying is that there's a decentralisation going on, and there's actually no D from decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42353	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The right to local self-government is a constitutional category. And how significant is this right, the right that belongs to citizens, the constitutional provision that state power can only be restricted and exclusively the right to local self-government. What is the right of citizens? It consists of citizens choosing their representatives in accordance with their declared principles, with election programmes, convinced that these people will best exercise their interests, citizens' interests. Does this happen, however, in Croatia? The last local elections, all that happened after them, what is happening today in connection with these elections is a total compromise of the constitutional right of citizens to local self-government. Citizens went to the polls, citizens voted, but citizens did not decide. They didn't choose. It's decided by someone else instead and it's no longer in the interest of events. He decides sometimes in the interests of the party, and most often in his personal interest. What is currently happening is a shame for the country, shows all the misery of politics and we as Parliament cannot remain silent about it. We can't act like nooje, we can't put our heads in the sand, we just need to talk about it. And not only to speak, we have to change this state in the interests of this country, in the interest of its citizens, in the interest of their right to local self-government. We need to change it in the normative part, by amending the law, we need to change the practice. Because you see, are we reading in the paper today the recognition of the elected councilman, the recognition that they offered him 350,000 euros to change that political belief, that political stance that his party bound him to, that political stance for which the citizens trusted him. It's a confession. Now I ask you, did the citizens go to the elections to choose local self-government for Brdek to earn 350,000 euros? I assure you they're not. I assure you they're not. The hill hard offered me money, I didn't take it. I didn't take them. And yet he changed his earlier decision, acts like he took the money. I don't trust him personally. And I doubt the citizens believe in him, too. Karlovac, Minister of the Croatian Government. Minister. He signs a contract with Councilman Capan to bow to the coalition and states in that contract that the other party will be paid 20 thousand kuna a month for it. It's a typical trade contract. I'm just asking, did Minister Schuker charge his taxes? Because watch when a man sells, a citizen sells his car, insults citizens, it offends them. When a citizen sells his old car to the state he has to pay 5% of his taxes, and when the party sells its old councilman...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42355	Dear Representative Stazić, you are somewhat dislocated from the topic, i.e. the agenda, which is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. I'm asking you to get back on the subject, otherwise I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42356	Dear Mr. Vice President, we are here to discuss the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. I started my presentation by saying that the right to local self-government is a constitutional category and I am talking about how this constitutional category of citizens is being played. I'm talking about how this constitutional category has become the subject of trade. I'm talking about how individuals from the party in the constitutional category earning 350,000 euros on citizens' rights. Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42357	You can't say that, or it's proven. This is what institutions in this country can confirm. You here in this assembly can't claim it. I'm asking you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42358	Mr. Vice President, I invite you to read the Constitution, to read the Law on the Rights of Representatives, and you will find there, a representative can speak. That a representative doesn't need evidence to talk, which is why he has immunity to tell a thief that a thief is a thief before it's proven in court. That's why he has immunity. Therefore, I kindly ask you to allow me to complete my debate in which I am talking about a fundamental problem, about trade in law, constitutional citizens' rights. So, when what happens in Croatia, this disgrace, we, as Parliament, must react. In that sense, but quite insufficient, completely missed, the extreme needless changes to the laws offered by the government. It doesn't make any sense, it's unserious and irresponsible to discuss them. If we do that, we'll show we're not at the height of the mission. Let's just ignore that there's a big problem, and we're dealing with details, petty problems. Will there be great cities or will there be no great cities? So you citizens don't care about that at the end. Lastly, their response to the last local election was small. After what's happening now, there won't be any. There won't be any. Well, people aren't crazy about going to elections, playing democracy for their voices and their trust to be traded later, to charge that 350 thousand euros or 20 thousand kuna a month, all one thing. In that sense, the HNS proposal is at least an attempt, good, bad, can be better, anything can be better. Try to change that, try to introduce a new principle. Let's pick these representatives directly. And that's an interesting thing that everyone in this House agrees on, including HDZ, and yet giving amendments to the law does not foresee it in these amendments. The government has already offered in the next draft of the law, the one on the mayor, mayor and chief, but this does not foresee what it says enough about the government's seriousness. State Secretary Palaric knows that I cannot be surprised to you that on the same day in a parliamentary debate, the procedure, you are sending two draft laws that are contrary. According to this, the mayors, mayors, the mayors are elected by the council, according to which we will discuss in half an hour, an hour, they are elected directly. I know what you're going to say, the other one still has to be worth it when the mandate ends. But he told you well, Tinker Bell. This one is so impertinent to you, you need another 35 laws to change this one to function. Knowing the dynamics of government's work, these 35 laws will take you exactly these two years, and then it could somehow be evened out. It would be much more serious if you noticed the problem I was talking about, that you went out with him to the Parliament and made a joint effort to stop this disgrace in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42359	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42360	Thank you. Well, I'd like to correct Mr. Stazic's allegations where he says what happened in Karlovac is a state disgrace. It is a party president's agreement that won the most votes in the local elections and Mr. Capan where much is agreed on, but it returns to 20 thousand kunas that HDZ is committed to paying to the Croatian party of pensioners. But the agreement also mentions the free transport of pensioners by city transport and many other things for this moment's most endangered population. What is a state shame in Karlovac, which he forgot to mention, is the offer of Miss Katic to support the party list where she was offered to tell Bianca how much she needed to raise her vote for the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42361	Thank you. Don't abuse the correction of an incorrect quote. Correction of an incorrect quote by the honourable representative of Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42362	Well, I have no intention of being anyone's lawyer here, but I was distracted by this sentence, I literally wrote it down by my friend Nesa Stazic. "I'm talking about giving a 350,000-euro bribe here," finished the quote. After your warning that it has not been proven, and it has not been proven, we have read it from the newspapers, Nasha goes on and says, "I, by some article of the Constitution and the law, have the right to lie." I think that's where he literally legitimateized himself, and let's see the article,... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Take a phonogram, I literally wrote it down. I'm asking you gentlemen from the party to keep your mouth shut, you've been talking too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42364	So Article 75 says, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, let me speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42365	I beg your silence and allow the correction of an incorrect quote. It's okay so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42366	I explain the inaccuracy, and you gentlemen from the party forget that there were those times, that still those times...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42367	Dear Representative Lonchart. Correct an incorrect quote. Time's up, but don't pollemize, so come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42368	Well, I can't speak, they're distracting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42369	Here you go. You've got 15 seconds left because you've been interrupted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42370	Here, therefore, Article 75 states: "A representative cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for an opinion or vote in the Croatian Parliament". And my friend Nasha says he has the right to lie and that's where the party supports him.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42371	I thank you, but please. Dear Representative Stazic has his name. Please, yes. Please, as on the left hand side, I'm asking for some silence. Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42372	Thank you, Mr. President. Well here, both incorrectly and with a lot of underestimation it is said that the changes in this Law are completely insignificant and interesting. I'll give an example. They may be extremely interesting because the cities and municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants were abolished so that the general confusion was in those places. This is where he comes back. Towns, big cities get the right to urbanism, which is extremely important. And as for the right to trade, I think the constitutional law of the SDP has been consummated in these elections abundantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42373	And come on, I'm warning you one more time, correcting an incorrect quote, focus on correcting an incorrect quote not to debate because I'm going to interrupt. Thank you. So from now on, I'm breaking up. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42374	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. And last night when this topic was under discussion, it was warned of one of the major problems in the text of the final government proposal. There was no secretary of state, so I called right when he was in the hall, and he's gone again. But counterpart Mršić repeated last night's warning extremely important. In our proposal for a law, Article 92 provides a provision: "specific laws establishing the powers and tasks of the local authorities will comply with the provisions of this law within 90 days of its entry into force". And the article behind this: "the other regulations of the local authorities will comply with the provisions of this Act no later than seven months after its entry into force". So we gave the government a three-month deadline to comply with 35 special laws, so that in the next 4 months the municipalities, cities and counties could coordinate their statutes and start applying the new Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Government transitional and final provisions do not have any provision within which deadline laws will be passed so that this Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government can be applied. And how to comply with the statutes of municipalities, cities and counties and large cities with this Law when no law in that area is even close to the procedure, certainly within 60 days they will not be adopted, adopted and published in "The People's Newspaper". And what are the laws? In fact, when we discuss the jurisdiction of local self - administration, we usually read the first or second paragraph of Article 19, 20 or 21. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As long as there are no special laws, no decentralisation will be made. No change and harmonisation of the statutes is possible because it is not known whether something will be in the jurisdiction of the headship or the representative body or the head man of it. Whom is the answer and what is the process of transferring new powers? So, for example, how do the statutes of the great city regulate primary health care? Does the Health Protection Act, which is recently new, give any authority to the city or the big city? No, I don't. Everything is given to regional self-government. When I asked that last time, they said it was a constitutional category because the Constitution said that primary health care is in the jurisdiction of local self-government. But in the Health Protection Act, that jurisdiction is not given. Therefore, it is concluded that the law is contrary to the Constitution because the law does not allow the consumption of rights to cities and now, according to this proposal, to large cities, they have primary health care. Or, for example, how in the statutes of the county or the great city regulate maintenance, investment and public road cleaning? Who's coordinating with who? What is the County Road Administration compared to the big city and County Road? Or, for example, this Bill of Law gives jurisdiction to the regional self-government to plan networks of health institutions, but in the Health Protection Act it is within the power of the minister. The minister brings a plan to a network of health institutions, not a county. So what now? What provision doesn't apply now? The one that is now that we need to adopt or the one that is in the Health Protection Act? And the Constitution said that primary health care is in the jurisdiction of local self-government. Therefore, the primary health care network is brought by cities, large cities, and municipalities. Not even county as regional self-government. We cannot order this Act to be harmonised within 60 days, the statutes of municipalities, cities and counties until we change all the other 35 laws and implement this idea in that, for example, building permits, urbanism takes over large cities and cities of county headquarters. Who's gonna take over? The law says it will take over people, archives, and objects. And the equipment, and the spaces, and the money to finance the new activity? I must remind you again of the provision of the Constitution, which states that the incomes of the units of local and regional self-government must be proportionate to their obligations and powers laid down by the laws. This is a new commitment of cities and counties that we don't know who's going to secure money for. And time approaches preparation, development, reading and adoption of local budgets. Do the counties in their budgets have to open an item in the urban section for next year? If so, from what sources of resources do you raise it? And we're giving them a deadline that in 60 days they have to comply with their statutes. Finally, the thesis is repeatedly repeated that it is almost impossible to find a model, a solution to how the profit tax is distributed not to the company headquarters because they are more or less everything in Zagreb than where the profit was generated. It's a false dilemma to me. And it's easy to solve in 15 seconds. The total profit tax should go to the state budget and the state's 100% income, and the total income tax to local and regional self-government. And there's no administration, no problems and no conflict. I call on the Government's representative to resolve in the transitional and final provisions the issue of the transitional period, the deadlines for the adoption of changes to 35 laws of specific areas and to extend the time limit of harmonisation of the statutes with this law in order to make sense, not to mention that the laws must be amended by those 35 special ones before the time when the obligation to adopt the budget of units of local and regional self-government occurs, otherwise, during the next calendar year, none of this provision under this Act, which is a newspaper, will be impossible to apply or will force people to break the law. And I believe you don't want to pass a law that will force the mayors, mayors and mayors of the municipality to violate the provisions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42375	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here it comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this set of the Law, paragraphs 2 and 3, so the 4th and 5th that we're going to discuss has deep roots since 1990 when the existing assembly of the municipality was a small state in the state, when they elected their commander of the police station, they had their own commander of territorial defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42377	Your Honor, I beg you closer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42378	They elected the President of the Municipal Court. The 93rd first step in one transformation and the creation of a modern state when municipalities, cities and counties are created, of course, these bill proposals speak of a gradual step by step to a decentralisation system when municipalities, cities and counties, in accordance with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, will indeed be the right sense of the service of citizens, the service of elected mayors, mayors and mayors, because without this foundation in local self-government and regional self-government, we cannot think that we will truly achieve the interests of the citizens and people who have chosen them. This is why these proposals are a modern step, safe and firm precisely in the direction of decentralisation that only the most necessary jobs remain on the central authorities of the state administration, but should be pointed out and reiterated that without certain financial reorganisations of the amendments and addition of the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government, we will not have one normal development of local self-government as it was starting with the Hvar Statute, the Korčulan Statute, when the Dalmatian cities were the basis for strengthening the Croatian state, so that there is certainly a need to amend existing financial laws. This is a further strengthening of local self-government, especially those units that have a prerequisite for taking over and doing jobs in the wider range, compared to the part-round transactions they have under the applicable law. Of course, by prescribing the executive work of municipalities and municipal headships in the city of urban headship, in the county county the county headship is a positive step forward. I'm just saying for practical reasons because I've seen from the president of the municipality, the mayor, what our laws in application look like in nature. What is most important is that none of the municipalities, especially as it was proposed before, can function if the representative body has the role of headship, is therefore to be commended that each and least municipally, the city has a head office to carry out executive tasks and not to do so by a representative body. It is useful to point out this one step further when large cities, which are units of local self-government, are also the headquarters of economic, financial, cultural, health, transport and scientific centres, for the development of a wider environment and which have more than 35,000 inhabitants. Of course, these large cities that have more than 35,000 inhabitants can do business in the county district. At this point, this is the most important thing that can be done and must be done but certainly the newspapers that are proposed to these proposals cannot be visited and not pointed out that the meetings of the representative body can also be convened by electronic means and are maintained via video link, video conference, I say this again for practical reasons, because having as an example Split-Dalmatia County, 55 municipalities and cities, Zagorski part, The island part then it is one step further to force all of us to inform, to force all municipalities and cities but also the county to technological equipment, to think about technological development, because now it is a very painful issue how and how to speed up the work of local self-government, regional self-government. At which point we know how many requests the citizens have received, within which deadline they are resolved, but very often we believe the word of the headmaster without the possibility of a thorough supervision. Of course, the County could function even better is positive and Article 20 is amended where it is said that in its own self-administrative work is also done in matters of regional importance. From education, health care, the most important thing now is spatial and urban planning because this is the first time that the idea of illegal construction has been stopped. It's just an excellent government regulation that's won huge successes. Of course, we're not a generation that collapses, but builds, but we should once and for all say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Not only is this a threat to maritime well-being, not only because it violates the beautiful appearance of our small towns, municipalities and cities, but from the fact that only the neat foundation of the issued construction permits can be more comfortable, as it were for the 21st century. However, what I would particularly point out is just one greater independence that the county should have in a financial sense because if they do not have their incomes and money, it is difficult to remain truly regional self-government when every money they receive from the government and get big money, they must consult with resolution ministers because otherwise these money cannot be intended for each county, municipality and city thinking. The provisions of Article 16 amending Article 51 are also important. That should do the best of all. Nomotechnically edit so that it can be very elegant to show mistrust and resolve the Commissioner, Mayor or Mayor because it is the only purpose when he feels a single responsible leader that his head will come into question then he will speed up and maximumly make his work effective. It is certainly a modern approach to any praise that says that what is proposed in Article 18 of the final proposal that a unique administrative department can be established in municipalities and cities that have up to 3,000 inhabitants, as well as to think about how better to educate and make a more efficient municipal and urban administration and county administration. This is actually one proposal I'd like the designer to think about. It's about the headmasters. The current regulations also say a proposed legislative solution under which conditions can be resolved by the presidents. I think it is time to think that these leaders are also selected through the tender for a certain period of four years and that the conditions under which and the assumptions that should be realized so that they can be resolved within that four-year period, as stated in Article 19, because only in this way will the head think that excellent work must achieve good results and not only as to date whether it is a member of this party or of that party, which is now a government or party to be elected in the next elections. Certainly a word and two, and members of national minorities found their place in Article 20, which says that the Croatian state is open to modern flows of European local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42379	Thank you. We have two replicas. Honorable representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42380	Thank you very much. I cannot accept the finding of colleague Peronja who says that a priority is bad if units of local self-government choose, say, police chief, customs officer and judge. It is bad if it happens in one party system, and it is bad if it happens in a multiparty system where the dominant is actually the mentality of one-party conditions. Why? For the simple reason that we have today in a number of European countries, and especially American countries, where police chiefs actually choose him, the people that this police officer and police will actually control. You also have an example of judges who also choose people. So I don't think it's a bad thing. The problem is also the way these people choose because who better to know who corresponds to a local self-government unit in some places than the local self-government unit itself. You called yourself to some old statutes of Korčulan and Trogir. They're talking about what I'm talking about right now. I also don't know how anyone can be sure that we can re-introduce headship in all municipalities because nobody here has ever said a word about rationality and how much this local self-government costs. Somebody explain it to me with a million and a half or two million kuna budgets or I don't know if there's still so many transfers. I don't know what headship will do. I think these discussions should actually take care of how much this whole story is gonna cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42381	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42382	Well, I would disagree with my colleague Peronje's finding that it's modern that it is now imposed by the municipalities of up to three thousand inhabitants that they must have a single administrative department to do self-government work. Today we have municipalities and at least with 137 inhabitants and if we use it and will have to comply with this law, so now we must have a city council, or a municipal council. The municipal council may have between seven and thirteen members. If he says he will have a maximum number of thirteen and applies Article 15 where it is said that the municipality can have between three and five members of the headship and says that he will have five members of the headship, then there will be 18 people in the council and headship, eighteen citizens, which means that 13% of the population and the municipality will be in the council and headship. It's something that's real, we can say that almost every citizen will be elected to this. And then, with all that, we'll have a unique management department. So in the municipality of 137 inhabitants, instead of doing a little more work on the existing Article 54 of the existing law, which defines how two and more units of local self-government can build a joint administrative department, so that such three municipalities that have 137, 256 and 300 residents are built by a single administrative department and not here we say no, each municipality will have to have and a municipality of 137 inhabitants, 18 elected officials and a single administrative department. It's not at all modern, it's one thing. And secondly, something here is being introduced that violates the autonomy of local self-government. Local self-government must have the right to decide for itself how it will be organised, at least as far as administrative departments are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42383	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42384	Here, thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! The debate today says how excellent the proposed model is. He's a colleague of Luca's answer. Today's County Assembly has always given consent to selecting the chief of police administration and this is an excellent solution. Everything else we've tried is small environments and all small environments are chosen by the police station commander. If a certain municipality or city had it, for example, I would now say the great city of Sinj or Kaštela, which has a series of following around the municipalities, how will it do so? No, it's the state administration that's handling it in the best possible way right now. It is the only way to respect order, avoid familyization and privatization of such chosen people. And I say it to my colleague, Mr. Lobster, simply. The more people participate in the management of the municipality, the better access the city regardless of the number of inhabitants. Then they'll know how much their not kuna weighs, but how much their lip weighs, and they're all responsible in small areas. It is true that there is no influence of any party, neither large nor small, only citizens who still don't understand that the right and most important document is the budget, and everyone knows how many kilograms of cement, everyone has built something, how many meters of asphalt, how bright it is, and that's exactly what they want with a modern approach and a solution. And there doesn't have to be professionals. In neighbouring Italy, the captain and mayor is a volunteer. In the afternoon, he really goes to look after his farm, his cattle, and he does the work of the ones he needs to do. We need to think more and more about that performance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42385	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42386	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. First, one correction to colleagues from HNS and PGS. We know from experience that club initiatives don't pass in this House, so it's practical, for practical reasons, I'll refer only to the government's bill. So my correction is to my colleagues from the PGS Club and the HNS. And when we discuss the proposals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we really need to look on the agenda and see that we have several laws in the proposal that solve quite differently the same matter from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That should really mean that the government has no concept. Now I'm gonna say why. This law which is therefore on the agenda of the bill, the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, has already proved unequivocally by my colleagues that it cannot be applied without amending many other laws on which it is based. Some say thirty, some say ten, that's irrelevant. So it can't be applied directly. It will remain "no dum yus", a naked right because there are no other assumptions for application. So he's been brought in to work for only four years. Why do I conclude that? So the government official says that the second law that we are about to discuss behind this will come into force in 2009 and will apply to regular local elections. This law cannot enter, cannot be implemented. We discuss it, and then there will be a new one who will step in on a regular basis. It shows that the government really doesn't have a concept. Or this is an attempt to ensure as easy as possible to come to power. So the law is passed in the interest of politics and politicians, not in the interest of citizens. Here's another reason for that. The important element of this government proposal is big cities. What are the criteria under law for large cities? Number, "numerus Klaus" 30 or 40 thousand. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. So it's an administrative criterion. Why administrative? So every city knows how to increase its population. Change the area of the city, change the area of the city, and there are a number of residents who will meet the rule of law criteria. So it really is no criterion for a better life for citizens, both economically and politically. He may well be politically because, since the relationship or the number of cities that will meet these criteria is already known. The second criterion is say county headquarters. This is the simplest administrative criterion that can be valid, it can be valid because citizens actually perform certain functions in the places of the county headquarters. But he's not a standard of life again. It's important to the local self-government standard of life. Let's see what local self-government does. What's her homework? Education, communals, health care, and editing. So none of the essential reasons determine what big cities they are? Not one. Speaking of concepts. At the same time, the Government has a law amending the constitutional basis of Article 132 concerning the direct elections of mayors, mayors and their deputies, and in the same, the rank lays down by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which should be applied in practice after a dozen or thirty amendments to other laws. What can the citizens expect from this? I can expect they're simply not good at local self-government. That's all I can expect because we're going to have a law that's inconclusive and we're going to have a law that prepares to be applied in 2009 which, by my assessment, will not only solve a lot of things but may be counter-constitutional. I think it would work if this one passed, and obviously it will, because the government's proposal is, from experience, we know it will pass because the government has a logical majority in the Parliament. To support my claim to the law, I propose a law that is only in the interest of politicians. So I'm going to refer to Article 19. So he has already proposed that his colleague Peronja be appointed chiefs or presidents for 4 years. It means that, in order to maximise their uncertainty, they would work legally. Just the other way around. The permanent selection of the chief or head of staff guarantees that they can obey the law rather than submit to leadership or headship. So if it is read that, that the headmaster must respect and protect the interests of the service, the service of the headship without that legitimate interest, and the practice of Croatian we know. So the head is literally called to respect the mayor or the mayor rather than the law. If we are building a system of legitimate business and action, then any official must provide himself with self - will, even if it is self - will and headship. With regard to the delirious law, it allows the local self-government unit to decide for itself whether the city, municipality or county decides on the part of its part. And even if we say it can be manipulated by the number of citizens or residents of a unit, we've really handled the greatest uncertainty. Instability and uncertainty. For according to this proposal of the law, some will be able to perform certain administrative tasks, and others will, and I will not do them. Then what is the principle? My colleagues and colleagues, I think that local self-government really needs to be seated and conceptually seen what can ensure stability, stability of local self-government? Not such an important constitutional but vital topic can be solved from case to case of volunteering or political interests. And all I'm assessing here is that it's political interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42387	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42388	Thank you. Your Honor, you said that if the leaders were elected for 4 years, they would be strengthened by their uncertainty. I don't think that's right. This would result in the share of the fate of both the mayors and mayors of those elected in the elections, and most importantly what would be achieved with this, which is so as not to build up the administration. So, as a rule, so far from these experiences, we have that all the principals who have been appointed are changing, and to, they become advisors, and every new set brings its own people. And in that sense, in that sense, I think it's a little bit of a shame if these guys go back to their jobs, and this set that wins brings new people to the capitals, and I think that's the most important thing. Because believe me, I was in the county's first session. At that time she counted 21 people, today there are 250, building new buildings, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42389	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42390	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Decentralisation of Croatia, i.e. the transfer of finances and powers to lower levels of government, has been the topic of the Croatian political scene for years. In the past 25 years, all major European countries have been practically decentralised. The local self-government system in the Republic of Croatia as it exists today is not much different from in the mid-1990s. The main problems of local units that existed at the time are mostly present today and can be seen at 4 points. First, inadequate territorial structures, i.e. the multiplication of local units. Second, excessive centralisation of powers and resources. Third, irrationally inert management in local units. And fourth, weak financial capacity of local units. The fact is, local self-government's been in the '90s. by 2001, they had and decided on practically a marginal part of public money. In practice, it has resulted in full centralised of powers and resources, and narrowing the independence of local units to a border that is legally inadmissible, economically irrational and politically unacceptable. This was the reason why a decentralisation project was launched in 2001. It was decided to decentralisation three basic social services, education, social care and health care, so that the key role was taken over by counties, or cities in decentralisation of education. Countys have not shown their ability to launch economic, cultural and social development, but have therefore served as a suitable ground for the accumulation of inefficient administration. When comparing the summated budgets of all counties and comparing it with the summated budgets of the municipalities, there is a huge disproportionateity in favour of the municipalities. Taking into account some developed cities, such as Rijeka, Zagreb, Osijek and similar Split, this disproportionateness becomes incomparably larger. The county obviously didn't come to life. Their additional transformation by detaching state from self-government did not help too much. The biggest problem is that they have too little fiscal capacity to achieve concrete results. One of the advantages of decentralisation policy at local level is that there is a high possibility of assessing the quality of supply of services. They have a strong local dimension. Citizens will focus their lives on a municipality or city that offers more due to competition between local self-government units, if necessary. In Croatia, too, these differences are becoming more and more noticeable. It is known that children in Zagreb or Rijeka in the 4th grade of primary school have the opportunity to learn two languages as part of regular classes, but this same possibility is not available to their peers, for example in Ravna Gora, as well as in most smaller towns or municipalities. If we take the average taken in the world today as a standard for the naturally developed participation of regional or local government in public decision-making, it should be a minimum of 20%. However, since we were at 13% and with this decentralisation we failed to reach this lower limit of desirable government participation below national level, and one reason is that in Croatia, at least in the strongest political parties, there is no kind of clear political consensus on decentralisation. In fact, there is a strong interest in decentralisation only in regional parties, but they do not play a major role in political life at national level and there is no strong coalition that would pressure the central state government to make significant moves towards strengthening local units in public decision-making. Since one of the major problems of local and regional self-government units is poor financial capacity, it is necessary to go towards further increases in income tax rates, and to convert some common taxes into exclusively local taxes. Of course, in the situation of the fiscal crisis of the central state, these are difficult things to decide, but should be put in the long term. The goal to pursue is at least 20% at the level of public money, to belong to local self-government, and more is desirable. A particular problem is really small municipalities with extremely low fiscal capacity. The fastest solution would be to eliminate them, but the question is whether it would be the most painless solution. In this way, residents would lose their ability to decide on some of their own significant issues, and this could become a significant problem. A legislation regulating local self-government can also introduce a differentiated part of responsibility and leave room for some major problems to be negotiated and resolved in cooperation with others. This would mean that the number of services for those who would be in charge of the least developed municipalities will be limited to only a few, mostly municipal services, and the provision of other services can be organised in the community with other municipalities, as Col. Mršić mentioned earlier, which is a tendency that exists in the United States. However, it is not only good to list the tasks that local and regional self-government should carry out, and to provide funding for these jobs should also be provided. Therefore, it is necessary to build Croatia where there are different responsibilities of different levels of government for the development of several essential services where local self-government should have more services than it has so far. I would refer to some solutions in the proposed texts of the Law on Local Self-Government. In Government proposal No. 265, although the proposed text of these amendments and additions has been somewhat improved compared to the first reading, the application of some essential parts remains questionable if we want to achieve the purpose of the existence of the county. It turns out that a communal system is being developed and stagnating or even improving the development of a regional system, i.e. county. In an explanation in the section of which basic issues are listed which are proposed to be regulated by this law and the consequences of its adoption, I quote in the first indent: "The legal definition of encouraging as best practice in local (regional) self-government as possible.", finished quote, and in the second indent again quote: "Motivating units of local and regional (regional) self-government in implementing best practice.". Mr. Palaric, please explain to me and the other colleagues which and what specific best and best practice here is meant. By increasing the powers of large cities, i.e. by overlapping some activities with the same activity in the county, it brings the counties into a position not to cover their own areas in those parts taken over by large cities. Thus, their competence comes only to an area outside the major cities, which can result in conflicts of interest between the large cities and the surrounding municipalities and the county, which can have significant consequences for the development of the entire region in that segment and the one mentioned earlier as best, i.e. best practice in the big question. I believe, as I said in my debate at the first reading of this law, that according to the provisions of my decentralisation framework programme, the government should develop a completely new Law on Local and Regional Self-Government based on the principle of subsidiarity and should make full reform of local self-government with clearly established powers of counties, large cities, cities and municipalities in order to avoid duplication and overlapping and mandatory decentralisation of finances as one of the criteria of adapting the state administration to European standards, which would include the obligation to adopt the Law on the financing of units of local and regional, or regional self-government. Given the already established, although not the best practice mentioned here, I'm afraid my suggestions won't come across fertile soil, but I will, however, and yet I have submitted two amendments which, in my opinion, would at least improve the content of this law. One refers to public road reflection and is on the trail of discussion by Mrsic, while the other refers to the expansion of the part-rounded counties...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42391	Time's up, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42392	Here's just two sentences. But there would be more of them when it comes to voting. And just for the proposal of the HNS law, let me just say one detail. One of the main advantages of local governance should be to address citizens' problems as effectively as possible and quickly as possible. But Article 25 is not exactly an example.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42393	I apologize, he can't go any further. Time's up. Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42394	... Split-Dalmatia County will now specifically say this, that it should not be invented and further developed, especially this financial part and financial independence. [[Specially enabled.]] For example, why is that? While the county was gone we said in the water supply in the 20th century it was almost I would say the shame of how we function. The Zagorje part, an island part, is the county headquarters that has brought together the highest quality people who have increased the number of taps in our households both in the islands and in Zagorje. We didn't want to stay on that famous 5km Diocletian water supply from Solin to Split. Furthermore, maritime well-being can't be done by anyone but experts, can't be a city, municipalities can't do that if there's no county. Always ask the city, the community. Concession approvals were not good because they were not professionally proposed what was the authority of the city and the municipality. County Road Administrations. Kilometers and kilometers that these people from the administration did, the county initiated little from its budget, little from the municipality, little from the government, but someone was supposed to coordinate it, the only professional people the county could have. The spatial plans, the county office for spatial planning, the county spatial plan that was adopted was the backbone for the development of municipal and urban spatial plans, and each plan was actually a future development, a strategic development of each county. Culture, we won't get around it. The Cetina Krajina Museum, a museum of Hvar's cultural heritage, is what the county founded along the property museum that should be the backbone for further cultural development. I'll also say cooperation excellent with the Croatian National Theatre, Mr. Vice President, just two seconds, please. So that top performances of the Croatian National Theatre from Split could take place both on Vis and in Lovreč and in Makarska and Vrgorec. Next, just one more...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42395	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42396	Most recently, a waste management center that doesn't have...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42397	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42398	Well, here I am when I said in my debate that the counties didn't live first I thought of their small financial capacity that makes it impossible for them to carry out some projects that are otherwise drawn up and for which there are plans, and even those that are included in the county law, it's simply impossible to implement because of this small fiscal capacity. And that's exactly what I meant when I said the county didn't come to life. Far from that, they do not have certain positive results, but they are still at that level that it is simply not achieved that goal that should be that in a field that they actually include in some way united programmes concerning all units of local self-government. Here in that sense was my criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42399	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42400	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which determines the continued functioning of local self-government. I believe its adoption will contribute to a better and more effective operation of local self-government. As a Parliament representative from Vinkovac, I would like to introduce you colleagues and colleagues to the arguments that motivated me to propose, together with the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Vladimir Seks, an amendment to this law, to Articles 4 and 6 of this law, which suggests that large cities are units of local self-government that are both economic, financial, cultural, health, transport and scientific centres that have 40,000 inhabitants. The city of Vinkovci has all the characteristics and criteria proposed in this law, except for the number of inhabitants, and therefore we propose a reduction from 40 to 35,000 inhabitants in our amendment. Since Vinkovci are not the head office of the county, and according to the number of inhabitants are 14 cities in the Republic of Croatia, this change could also continue to carry out the jobs they have done so far and in a way that would not disrupt the relations of cities in Vukovar-Srijem County or beyond in the Republic of Croatia. Except for Vinkovci, for my knowledge, the status of the great city would only have gained the city of Samobor. I hold this number suitable for the Croatian conditions in which we live today, and in these conditions I am sure that the Vinkovs are a great city and deserve to have that status. I'll briefly say a few reasons why I think the Vinkovs are a big city and that, in fact, by accepting this, we could continue to act on certain functions that they've acted on so far. I'll say, Vinkovci are a city of rich history with about 7,000 years of existence. Vinkovci are a city of culture with a whole series of famous writers, artists, sculptors, painters, actors. We Vinkovčani are particularly proud of the 40 years of "Vinkovci fall" through which the wealth of folklore, traditional cultural heritage whose importance grows beyond the borders of the City of Vinkovac, the Republic of Croatia, is preserved as well. Vinkovci are a city of sport with a whole series of very successful athletes. One of them is our colleague Mirko Filipovic. Vinkovci are also a city with 8 secondary schools and 8 elementary schools. So is the university town. It is known that Vinkovci and the traffic centre, and what is particularly important for Vukovar-Srijem County is that Vinkovci are an economic centre where there are currently about 16 and a half thousand employees while it is unemployed 15 and a half percent. I only mention this for reasons why if you compare the unemployment data in the County of Vukovar-Srijem, which is about 33%, then it's very clear that, and it's very clear about the strength of the winemaking economy. Finally, it is not important to mention the contribution of the City of Vinkovac to the Homeland War where the southeastern army and its penetration to the rest of Croatia were stopped. At the same time, 10,000 exiles and refugees were taken care of in Vinkovci. I am convinced that these arguments, some of these arguments will be sufficient to accept this amendment and allow Vinkovci to continue to be a city that will allow further development of both the City of Vinkovac and the Vukovar-Srijem County, but also the eastern part of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42401	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42402	So I fully support what my colleague Chuljak was saying about the Vinkovci, but I just don't know why you didn't use the same or similar arguments and for close to you Djakovo. It is true that in Vinkovci HDZ is in power and in Djakov SDP, but almost equal to the criteria met by Vinkovci to be a great city meeting and nearby Đakovo. By tradition and by age. In the end, the diocese is in Djakovo, the bishop has his seat in Đakovo and now Djakovo will according to this Law, not that it will not be a great city but will lose those powers that he had under Article 21 of the existing Law. So, even what he had so far, what the former government has given to the 2001 Law changes to Djakov and Vinkovci and Kaštelam will not have now. But in order to be convincing in these efforts, I suggest you, write an amendment for the Vinkovec and Djakovo and I will subscribe that amendment to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42403	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42404	Well, I think Mršić said everything, and I said I speak as a representative of the City of Vinkovac and the Vukovar-Srijem County. And certainly, since the Vinkovci have been the temporary headquarters of the county so far, and we know that the county headquarters in Vukovar, and in practice only this way, means, by accepting this amendment, the Vinkovci continue to do the work they have done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42405	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42406	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since people in color call this bill the Law on Great Cities, I have tried to find inside what will change for Split, which is why it will now be a great city, and what has not been so far. And what kind of powers he's gonna get, and I haven't found anything. I haven't found anything, and it seems to me that this is a heavy cosmetic because it doesn't change anything. As for Split, I'll talk about Split, I'm from Split. Split is a port city, the third port in the Mediterranean. So far, by the 10th month 3 and a half million passengers have been through it this year. And who runs the Split port? You mean Split? God forbid. No, no, state. So the port administration and port are not in the jurisdiction of the City of Split. So what's this big city, port town? What are we famous for, by the port? Rijeka, Dubrovnik, Zadar, Sibenik, etc. And we don't run those ports. So what are you offering us? A portless city with whom someone else runs? I've talked about it before. Split Riva, what do you know about it? Split is recognized by the average man. Split Riva, St. Duje, Diocletian's Palace, Marijan. Split Riva, do you think Split City manages the Split Riviera? No, the country. We don't have jurisdiction over the Split Riviera in town. He's breaking south Split's waterfront. To repair the 100 grand wonders. 100,000 miracles. Because the city of Split, this great city that will be, is great but in the other sense. But under this law, God damn it, everything stays the same or all the trouble that's being said about us. Split Riviera does not rule the City of Split. Marian, Marian. In the previous meeting of the Parliament, we passed a Law establishing a public enterprise in the park forest Marijan, and now this Split really has jurisdiction over Mariana. But that's why another law in this council has changed, and that's the law that treats nature parks where it says that the county can take it back under its own. So, it's questionable if we're going to lord Mariana as well. Are we going to, and I'm telling you that Split really invests most in Marian. From fire protection to other miracles, etc. Matejuška Splitska, it is the Matejuška where Miljenko Smoji will be erected, etc., one famous, famous part of Split. Is Split mastering it? No, I don't. I wonder, by what we are, if one Liverpool, Genoa, Rotterdam, Vera Cruz in Mexico lords their ports, these are port cities, and Split no, I wonder why we are a great city? And for that reason, by searching under this Law, I failed to find what makes Split a great city. What is self-government? The very word when you separate means you control it yourself. "selfgoverment," I don't know, "autohestion", etc., in all languages, the same thing. And if someone else is in charge of where you live, then it's the opposite of self-government. Then it's called lipo centralism, metatism, etc., it has a hundred thousand names. So, the thing is, we're changing the essence, not just to throw in those empty words that he says now you're a big city. And what's that for? If it has to change 30 or 10 or 12 or 18 laws that don't change, everything stays the same. I don't see those changes. If we do not master the historical core of the City of Split, then what is it that we Splits control our city for? Nothing at all, as far as it's concerned. What my colleague Peronja was saying, listing things about the county, he ended up mentioning garbage, or as the crickets say about us. Well, we don't want to be a big city by what everyone's going to wear to Split, like much of what's going on right now. So in Karipovac, it's a Split Yakushevac, you're getting garbage from one big part of Dalmatia. Well, I mean, it's really a question of when we'll get rid of it in our county and so on in our town? Or will Split traffic drive around other cities on the burden of the citizens of Split? These are questions, I mean, really that put us in front of a dilemma, and what does that change? Article 6 says here, indeed, that, indeed, these cities that have more than 40,000 inhabitants can do jobs from the county district. But how, my people? Can you explain to me how? Where it's worked out, how, the answer is nowhere. Well, it can be said that all citizens have the right to have 100,000 kunas a month, so what? I mean, the fact that we can take over these jobs, I don't think that through any law, no form, in any way in practice in life, they're not laws to be decorations, they're not laws to be inaccessible utopia, they need to reflect reality. They can put a little bit of a step up, what they'd like to be is what hasn't been realized yet, but I mean a law that doesn't correspond to practice or to an experienced collage seems to me to be missed. And I wouldn't be long, I would just talk about it because I can see that it hasn't changed anything since the first reading, although the observations were the same, and this article 17 seems to me to be questioning the meaning of city councils, it seems to me, about which some colleagues have been saying that this could lead to an even deeper question of what self-government is. And I note what we all know, cities, not small or medium, but cities are the foundations of democracy, one of the foundations of modern democracy, without cities and their self-government developed, regional self-government, we will hardly go forward, and that is what is in the interest of all, this party really has nothing to do with it, but citizens and their lives and what is happening around us. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42407	Thank you. Did you have both a replica and a correction of an incorrect quote or just a correction? Then the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42408	Here is the point of citing Split's Korepovac dump, the establishment of a waste management centre in Karepovac County, will no longer be in the area of the city. The state approved 60 million, awarded to the city of Split, that's incorrect. It is also incorrect that Split is not managing the city in port management. He has representatives in the Management Board of the Port Authority of Split. Without a spatial plan, no concession or approval can be granted. The city's got a spatial plan. However, despite its great desire, the city of Split has not brought it in for 8 years. Right now, that spatial plan is about to end. What the previous administration has advocated and is now newly elected is that the city of Split can issue local building permits, and it will get this and this is exactly the most important part of space management. Also when it comes to port management and port Split part...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42409	Time's up. You have your lines now, so within the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42410	I also replicate in the way Split port is not only the city of Split, as my colleague listed, foreign ports, I will add, and Odessa there is also a formed port administration, "port identity". It is a special way of managing ports everywhere because ports are everyone's and are mostly state-owned, and representatives of port administrations are also representatives of the city. This is exactly how we get the possibility of developing the Split port, and what our colleague said exactly this way of forming the port administration, Split, increased passenger traffic almost 30% and, of course, made it possible to expand and build the port not only in the city of Split but also in Supetar, both in the Old Town and in Veli Luka so that large ferrys, luxury boats can fit. Together, the city of County and the state is the result of exactly these modern regulations ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42411	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42412	With all due respect to Odessa... and as I know who, I'd rather compare myself to Rotterdam, the fact is that the administrative board of the port administration sets up the state, not the city of Split, who chooses it is important. Is to put one there from the city it is currently from the Croatian party of pensioners one expert of 100 years who has changed the party uniform for cheap money, but well these are these post-election elections, but this is also what the city needed, we from the city read it in the newspaper, who is in the board and here is one distinguished colleague who has. Okay, I won't, he's really very respected, and I respect him very much, by this other colleague who was elected to telecommunications today. That's four and a half thousand kuna a month. Okay, I'm just telling you that the city of Split would be logical to manage the team not only the city of Split, all the port cities. As far as garbage is concerned, with all due respect, I welcome everything that's going on positive, it's our common problem, but the fact that now it's just like that, that it's not right that they're where they're supposed to be, that it's listed now and that people have refused, that whatever it was, they didn't accept it, etc. The fact is that Split suffers, I just put it as a single parable we won't be a big city because we're going to have a big trash and it's for a lot of other people's, I'm about to arrange it and every effort I welcome was he County, state or city of Split, it's absurd that by this law I, I really don't see what changes him to become a big city.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42413	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42414	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government really has great importance for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia and for our 570 units of local and regional self-government. And the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia declares the principle of independence and self-determination of units of local and regional self-government and they are subject only to the supervision of legality and not to the test of relevance of decisions taken. Only supervision of the legality of work and acts shows the importance of local self-government. The Law on Local Self-Government and Administration was passed, the first law of 1992 was eventually upgraded, the observed illogicalities were removed, of course not until now. By upgrading, i.e. by expanding the circle of transactions taken over by local self-government and administration units and by ensuring a higher degree of independence than the central state government. The reform of local and regional self-government, which is additionally upcoming, of course, means further transfer of power to local self-government units, especially larger cities as gravity centres, economic and financial significant units. So in this proposal, amendments and additions to the law are particularly defined for the first time by large cities and it is said that cities with more than 40,000 inhabitants, that these are also county seats if I am not mistaken, these are two cities that are still entering that category of big cities. I would tend to those thoughts and here thinking and suggestions that this censorship or that amount of 40,000 inhabitants may be reduced so that some other cities that have these attributes of gravity centers, economic and financial significant units such as Vinkovci, Samobor, don't know if any other city that they also acquire this status. In Article 4 of these amendments and additions, it is therefore proposed that these new additional jobs or obligations for large cities, and I really think it is essential to enable larger centres to issue building and location permits and other works related to construction, especially when we know that they have tasks in spatial planning, it is quite logical that then local, construction, construction and construction permits, supervision and other works related to construction are also in the jurisdiction of these large centres. I also see in practice possible problems. Here, I'm going to name just one thing or one obligation that is either the possibility of a job given to big cities, like public road maintenance. Good where the mayor or mayor will be able to agree without a problem, where they will be able to coordinate and share these activities, but I'm afraid there will be those environments that will be very difficult to negotiate, and I can hardly imagine that the racer is coming along the county road in the organization of the county road administration to the border of the big city, and after that, the work on the same road will then be organised by the city administration or by some company to which the city will be entrusted with the business. So it's something that will depend primarily on the people who run the cities, the county if they can make a deal and sit down. I don't think there should be a problem here either. Article 9 finally excludes the practice of which up to 3,000 municipalities did not have municipal headships, but the role of the municipal headship was carried out by the municipal council and the holder of the executive board was the head of the municipal council. According to my knowledge and some experience in practice, I think it was a solution that was in practice causing a lot of problems. It is a representative body chosen as any other municipal and city council. Many times, these meetings of the municipal council, which had completely operational decisions from the authority of the direct executive, turned into debate clubs, and therefore I think that one less operational body, which will be called the municipal head of the headship with the chief, should have three members a much more operational and full-quality solution and I support, I welcome these amendments, which, by abolishing the former paragraph 1 in Article 40, have been in the current law. Thus, these suggestions from the first reading were adopted and resolved. As regards the head of the administrative bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government of these amendments, therefore the heads of directors may also be elected as members of the headship. It's really a decision that can be both like this and like this. I think it's good to open up such a possibility. In practice, it seems to me at least as regards this term of office of the local authorities chosen, they have been elected under the existing law under which members or heads of the administrative bodies could not be members of the headship, they will very rarely change until then, but if this case is applied, I think that, in particular in some transitional and final provisions or additional acts, the status of the former presidents should be regulated. Why? The current leaders were accepted by the basis of a tender indefinitely and were elected by the county headship. If elected members of the county headship, they are elected by the council or the assembly. Therefore, they become political officials and, of course, it is expected that, with a possible change of political power as elected members of the headship and their mandate, they will cease. I therefore think that somewhere in the transitional provisions, what should be defined by the existing leaders should they accept the duties of members of the headship and possibly tell them that, therefore, after the term of office in the headship, it is possible to provide the job adequately for their professional preparation and work experience that people who now have the status of employees would not find themselves on the road for a few years. Here, let me just say a few more thoughts about this law and recapture it. I think that the deadline of 60 days according to which units of local and regional self-government should coordinate their statutes or other acts is too short, that it should be at least 90 days, let's say that it would be more practical by the New Year because it should be known that according to the Budget Act, the deadline for the adoption of the budget is 15.12. of the current year for the adoption of the budget for the following year. And I think that all units of local self-government somehow time their last sessions of city, municipal or county councils, or the assembly here on 10 to 15.12, in order to adopt the budgets within that deadline. Therefore, I think that at least until then they should be given the opportunity to use this final session of the council or assembly to coordinate statutes and acts. Of course, by adopting these laws, a number of other laws that essentially define the role and importance of local self-government in those direct and concrete jobs such as primary and secondary education, health care, social care, road law, communal economy, the financing of units of local self-government, and I am quite sure that this is a transitional solution. And of course, given that the next item of the agenda is the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors and Mayors until the entry into force of the law, the new Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government should also be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42415	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42416	Well, I'm sorry that today's entire debate from the ruling majority is about that here we finally get something called big cities and it's going to be something great now, it's going to be terribly decentralised and I don't know what. We, colleagues and colleagues, had big cities. Unlike this proposal when we will have twenty plus Zagreb we have so far had thirty and two great cities. These were cities that, in addition to everything other cities had been able to do, were also involved in the work described in Article 20 of the existing Law. It is education, healthcare, spatial and urban planning, economic development, transport and transport infrastructure. Even so, these 32 cities have not been able to achieve certain rights such as primary health care, they could not regulate traffic and transport infrastructure because other special laws have prevented, in particular the Law on Public Roads, the Road Safety Act, etc., etc. This law does not go after the fact that it increases the decentralisation of the state and continues where we are today, but this law goes after it to recentralize certain things. Because what's going to happen to these 12 cities that today are places of decentralised function and now it's questionable what's going to happen to them? So we have so far had great cities in this sense of speaking. There's just a syntagm of a big city being introduced here. But we could say that the great city is what regulates Article 21 of the existing Law where it says, "Cities that have more than 30,000 inhabitants." We could only add that so the cities that have more than 30,000 inhabitants are big cities. And we pretend it all and say, "No. They are no longer big cities but large cities that have more than 40,000 inhabitants and county seats." So the question is, what will happen to Vinkovci, Samobor, Kaštel and Djakov? Which today are big cities and since 1.10, that's no longer gonna happen, isn't it? That's the question. So this law does not go after it to strengthen the role of local self-government units but to once again strengthen the central state. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42417	Answer, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42418	Mr. Vice President, your esteemed colleague, your remarks or replica, was scheduled for big cities. We all use the term given in the legal proposal here. That's what I understood. And as far as the content is concerned, I do not agree with you that these rights are being reduced. The fact is, there may not be any rights in that extent as much as you, me, or many of us here would like. But it certainly seems that moving forward is not enough, but additional legal solutions will be likely to improve that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42419	Replica. Honorable representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42420	Thank you very much. I really have a feeling that on this side we're reading one bill and you're there another one, uh, or obviously maybe they've given us the wrong materials. Because actually, because actually These laws, with these laws or with this law, we take two steps back. [[Intruder: There are two proposals.]] You can call something megapolis, cosmopolis, a big city, but he's not until you give him authority. And in this case, give me, read me what is now being transferred to the great cities? If you don't let him master with his space, with his ports. With your, I don't know, air, sea, forests, if you don't let him master with his money that's being made in that city, then he has no attributes to a big city. Let's learn one thing, and I think it's clear to everyone who has at home and masters with some home budget. The essence of decentralisation and attribution in local self-government units is money. And if we actually introduce the attributes of individual units of local self-government as we're going to call them budgets, money management, space management, we're actually going to be on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42421	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42422	Looks like we're really reading the same material. Looks like colleagues on the other side are reading the left side, and we're reading the right side of the material. And what's fundamentally changing? Exactly what you said. It's a decision on space. So far, the unit of local self-government has not been able to decide on its own space except for the adoption of spatial plans, but how this space will be used in the sense of issuing local self-government, construction and other works related to construction is here, which is why the authority of local self-government units is increasing. I'll do it again. I agree with you in that part that this step isn't enough. And it's not as much as we might want together, but it's still a step. The point when you say it is money. There are very many units of local self-government that have a lot of money so they don't know how to use it rationally. There are also a good number of units of local self-government that do not have extremely large budgets, but they have made excellent use of these budgets and these available resources, and there are many examples of local self-government units. For me, I think, and it's much more important that the local self-government unit has adequate resources for those obligations that are entrusted to it. And how quantitative that is, how quantitative of that then.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42423	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42424	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We here in the middle means the spine of the Croatian Assembly we read one and the other materials. So I'm going to say by reading each other's materials we've come to the conclusion that the best version of going to the third reading of this Law is going to be. In order to connect him to these two laws that I'm going to discuss after that because we have to simulate and figure out everything like that, and now we don't need to throw like geese into the fog, but we have plenty of time and simulate solutions that will be appropriate. Which will be feasible. Let's just say, in this very law, that's what an esteemed colleague has said fine and true. For those municipalities that have up to 3,000 inhabitants so far, it has been a provision for the municipal council to also make headship. And there was an illegality, you know. I'm just going to take an example for you, let's say the Jasenica municipality had a situation like that. Then they're the ones who want to keep selling construction sites. And as they sold construction sites if they wanted to sell to their own, then they opened a competition in "The Voice of Istria" or "The Voice of Slavonia". If he wants to be honest, they'll talk in the "Zadarska List" and "Free Dalmatia". Therefore, only these things, this crime that was happening on the ground is enough for this part to not at the same time perform the representative body and the role of the executive body because it is also a conflict of interest, and the possibility is enormous to commit crime, and there is no possibility of action. Or no one will know. And this is how this variant happens that this representative body will control its headship. That's homework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42425	Thank you. Here's the crowd at the political center. The answer isn't, is it? Let's move on. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The recently completed local elections have confirmed once again that the existing electoral law has a series of weaknesses and that it needs to be changed as soon as possible. Everything that happened after the election results were announced, and until today it has been shown, it has shown in the right sense all the glamour and misery or rather the misery of the Croatian political scene. The actual electoral winners are not those political parties or independent lists that won 30 or 40% of voters' votes, but ultimately those who were more skilled traders or those who made better sales contracts. As a result, in a lack of local environments, we now have situations that political parties with the highest mandates cannot form power because they lack one or two councilors. The parties move to opposition, and the main seats in some municipalities, cities or counties were won by candidates from the election lists that won one or two seats. And then in public, it's explained as the voter's will. I really don't understand that logic. Well, I guess if voters gave the most trust to some list then they made it clear that they wanted the holders of the list to be their mayor or mayor or mayor, not to give the list in the future municipal or city council to be in opposition, and that the head office is being held by someone with won 7% or 8% of the votes. I think that if the Election Law does not change after the experience of these local elections, citizens will respond in an even smaller number. In these elections, citizens sent a clear message by their weak exit to the polls. They are not satisfied with the possibility of exercising their rights at local level that they themselves cannot significantly influence the creation of a local development policy of the municipality, the city, the county, so they do not see the purpose of going to the polls. The constitution says that citizens have the right to local administration and self-government, but it is also a fact that we are still a very central state, which my colleagues have talked about a lot before. However, the decentralisation process has begun, units of local self-government have increased, but this has not been accompanied by the necessary financial resources. Local self-government units have remained without a significant share of their property and, therefore, municipalities, cities and counties often fail to address their citizens' daily life problems in quality. So the decentralisation process has often started only on paper, and in reality it is not what the citizens of this country would want. Furthermore, everything that happened after the elections has further shaken voter confidence in politics and political parties. On the basis of everything said, it is necessary to conclude that the system needs to be changed. How to ensure that citizens have a more direct impact on the exercise of their rights? One way is to ensure the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, it will surely lead to a higher level of personalisation, but also responsibilities. This will increase citizens' interest in the elections, as they will directly affect the city's future leadership, i.e. its municipalities or county. Now they're here. Now, of course, there's a dilemma. Whether to go to such an electoral model that we get a strong mayor, mayor or mayor with great powers, and a weak council, or a congregation, or go to such an electoral model that provides a strong council, i.e. the county assembly. The proposal of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and of the PGS, which is before us, has clearly been defined for that first variant, means for the variant of a strong mayor, i.e. the mayor or mayor who, under this proposal of the Law, has great authority. He would choose his own deputies, or assistants, to elect a secretary, members of his office, and I believe that there is a better solution to this proposal by the Government of the Law, which says in Article 10 that the deputy mayor, i.e. the mayor and mayor, is actually elected by the majority of the votes of all members of the municipal councils, i.e. the City Council and the County Assembly. Furthermore, in a proposal from HNS counterparts, the PGS, Article 49(3), states: "The management bodies are managed by the heads of state who, on the basis of a public tender, appoints a municipal chief, mayor or mayor.", so there is no commission to carry out bids on selecting candidates, not a commission to decide, but actually one man. Furthermore, Article 91 states that municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors assume all the powers and tasks performed by local, or regional units. Personally, I believe that this gives too much authority to one man, which automatically enables more autocratic control, in this way there is a real possibility of creating so-called. The local sheriffs, which can also open up a space for bribery and corruption. I don't think it would be good for us to get a strong municipal chief, mayor or mayor in this transitional period. Everyday practice shows, and we were especially able to make sure after these local elections that our political culture and consciousness are still not at such a level as to guarantee that giving such great powers to a man will not lead to different abuses. The second issue and the dilemma that is necessarily being imposed is the issue of relations between the municipal chief, mayor and mayor with the council, i.e. the county assembly. How to ensure that this relationship and cooperation are correct, because what if we happen to have a political option in the representative body that does not support the political option that belongs to the head of the municipality, the city, or the county. It once again stresses the question of the degree of our political culture and consciousness, and if we keep this in mind, it is clear that the dilemma is being imposed that the co-operation of the leader with the representative body and vice versa will work. The promoter himself is aware of this problem and of the possible consequences that this Law may result in. However, I believe that this bill, which is before us, is not sufficiently regulated. The proposer considers that in the relations of the representative body of the executive authority the procedure is a central matter recalling the directly elected head of the executive authority. The possibility to initiate the recall procedure by the representative body shall be foreseen, but a decision on recall must be taken by 3/4 of most of the members of the representative body. In the event of impeachment, the Government shall conduct an electoral referendum and, if the referendum declares that the majority of opposition voters are to be held, new elections are to be discussed. The objective of such a procedure is to ensure a stable position of the directly elected mayor, i.e. the mayor or mayor, on the one hand, but on the other hand to enable the representative body to initiate the recall procedure, but under special conditions which significantly reduce the possibility of the self-will of the representative body, i.e. the influence of political relations and changes within the representative body itself. I think the procedure is very complicated. In the government's proposal, there's something simpler, but I'm not sure that this is how it was proposed enough to avoid self-will by any representative body, by the executive authority. The regulation of this issue is important, but this is not the only issue that should be addressed precisely by the Law in order to avoid significant disturbances in mutual relations between the executive and representative authorities. The involvement of citizens in addressing all those issues that are important for everyday life in the local community is of paramount importance in order to make local self-government principles more effective in practice. I am referring to the proposal of my colleagues from the CNS and the PGS, the issue of direct participation of citizens on decision-making, which pays special attention. In order to ensure the principle of participation of citizens in the decision-making and creation of local municipal policy, I believe it would be good to determine that the meetings of municipal, or city councils must be called upon by the presidents of the local committees, as a direct link would be established between the representative body and the local committees. Article 26(2) states: "To submit to citizens and legal persons a reply within 30 days of the date of submission of the statement or complaint, the head of the unit of the local self-government, i.e. the administrative bodies of those units, shall be obliged to give an answer to the citizens and legal persons within 30 days of the date of submission of the statement.". And I wonder what will happen if this provision is not respected. We all know very well how sensitive citizens are to ignoring their questions by the authority of the administration and I therefore believe that certain sanctions should be provided for if this provision of the Law is not respected. And in the end, we have two laws. One is in the first reading, the second is in the second reading, and I personally advocate that the Government's proposal goes into the third reading, that the proposal of a fellow HNS, the PGS, goes to the second reading, so that until the next reading, all of these doubts that have been expressed in this debate today can be corrected so that they can ultimately have a law that would make it impossible, which would in practice enable local administrations to function as well as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42427	Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42428	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The distinguished colleague said that in many areas, she primarily thought of Dubrovnik and Velika as the voter's will is being played. And now I'm going to tell you another most recent example in Croatia that no one has mentioned today how voter will is being played, it's the area of Bjelovar-Bilogor County. You know who's in power there now? HSS, HDZ, SDP and HNS, this is the immorality we talked about... And imagine what an immoral thing this is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that will was played, that money was... Yeah, who's been playing that money now? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, answer me that. You're all talking today. So, the coalition, so the authorities in the Bjelovar-Bylogorje County are HSS, HDZ, SDP, HNS, truth 3, no 4, one remains. ... It is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here it is. As the voter's will is played out, so answer me now. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42429	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42430	My colleague Kovacevic, I don't know how you came to know that I was thinking first of all about Velika Gorica and Dubrovnik. I didn't think at all, nor did I know any place. Because as you mentioned Big Gorica, Dubrovnik, now you mention Bjelovar, I can talk about Split, I can talk about some other cities. I'm... O Osijek, thank you, colleague Mršić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I generally talked about the very ugly and bad situations that happened after the election in a lot of environments. So it doesn't matter now whether it's HSP, SDP, HDZ, it's a complete one situation that actually creates a bad picture of politics in Croatia, politicians and political parties. That's what I meant, I didn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42431	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42432	Dear colleagues and colleagues, following a careful debate especially of representatives from the ruling coalition, I have a feeling that we will...... I have a feeling we're gonna get... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42433	I have a feeling I'm gonna give a warning to someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42434	Not to me, Mr. Vice President!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42435	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42436	Thank you very much. So I have a feeling that we will either adopt or release from first to second reading laws that will result in about the following situation, now or if the Government is serious then it will be that or that proposal of the law on direct elections is not seriously filed. So we will have the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors of the municipalities and we will leave the chieftainships which is simply incompatible and I repeat that in the previous term of the Assembly, the most basic remark of the HDZ Club on our proposal was that, and Mrs Dropulić said on behalf of the club, that it is not possible to introduce the institution of direct selection of leaders and leave the original body of headship. Now we have a situation on the agenda of direct selection and we leave the chieftainships and, moreover, a direct selection of leaders who will be resolved by the representative body and they will be able to replace it. It can't go together again. And we got into a castle of debate, about the heads of the administrative bodies in regional and local self-government, and Kurecic talked about it. What do we have in the proposal now? In order to ensure that the director who has to be chosen through the competition, it is the official, so it is chosen by the competition, in the event of his replacement from the headmaster's post, that he has to be provided with a spare post and may be elected as a member of the headship. He's a duplex. An official and a political person in the department and we ask what will happen to these found and new if they are removed. Well, there's no headship in the new model. There is no more headship when we introduce direct elections. And two. How the headmaster may be a member of the headship and correspond to the headship, and he is also a member of the headship and is waiting for the post after he falls out of the headship either because of a change or the end of his term of office. Such a solution has been offered several times, and this Assembly has always rejected such a solution, never until now has such a solution been accepted precisely because of the fact that it does not occur. A 93 - year - old assembly has tried to push the idea several times and has always been rejected. Now the final government proposal again offers such a solution that is not acceptable to me, then these leaders should enter the election system into the representative body first so that they have the legitimacy to enter the headship as well... a job with a reserved post after the change or expiry of the term of office. [[You don't understand.]] And allow another clarification. I see there's been a lot of confusion. Deputys of the head man and his assistants, an extremely important difference. When we give the mayor, the mayor and the mayor of the deputy municipality they enter the race with him and can get transferred powers. The mayor can transfer the health authority to his deputy. There's no transfer of power in the assistant, they're responding exclusively to the head man. If it's possible to transfer power from the head man to the deputy, then who answers and who actually the citizens choose, because the mayor can say you're taking over the authority for roads, infrastructure, education, health and social, and I'm just gonna be the make-up for cutting tapes and painting in front of the camera. This is an important difference in powers, i.e. in the category of deputies and assistants, and it was the second main remark of the HDZ Club in the past term on our proposal for a law where we also envisioned the transfer of powers and they said no, because citizens choose the first man and therefore he has no right to pass on powers to anyone else because he is the one who received the elections. That's a big difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42437	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42438	Two things. It wasn't Mr. Kurečić who spoke of the leaders, it was me, and she was the essential thing that made me come forward, and I don't know why Mr. Lesar said that. We will not have a direct choice of mayor and leave the county headship under the existing law because in the transitional and final provisions of the Government's proposal he writes, I am talking about the Law on the Direct Selection of Mayors, Mayors and Municipal Commissioners. The law enters into force on the day of its publication in "The People's Journal", it applies in the next regular local elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42439	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Palaric, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42440	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I am today, perhaps for the third time, going on and on about the fact that the government's legal proposals are inconsistencies which are not true. We now have elected mayors, mayors and municipal commissioners who have been elected by the representative body and these elected mayors, mayors and municipal mayors suit the representative body and it can resolve them when there are reasons for this and when they have sufficient majority to resolve and so will be until the electoral system is changed and the new electoral system begins to apply until mayors, mayors and municipal chiefs are elected directly. According to our proposal, the direct election of mayors, mayors and municipal chiefs will be held together with regular elections for members of the representative body of units of local, or regional self-government, so on the third week of May 2009. Until then, it must remain the responsibility of elected mayors, mayors, municipal commissioners to the council and must remain the possibility that whoever chose the mayor, mayor and municipal chief to resolve it in the period. We are just perhaps what we have repeatedly highlighted, the highest value of such early drafts of the law that the future relationship between the directly elected mayor, the municipal chief and the mayor and the equally directly elected members of the representative bodies is thoroughly discussed and we have not heard proposals for a solution to this relationship. We're just referring to inconsistency, we're going over what's written in the text of the bill, we're going over what we've been saying on committees, and what I said about this speaker is that there is a period of direct choices that must be arranged in the current way. And in that period, we need to develop a model of relationship between the representative body and the executive body. And therefore, when the debate on the direct choice of mayor is opened, I believe that it will not return to inconsistency but will offer the Parliament's opinion that it should be done in a good way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42441	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42442	Well, it is incorrect that the secretary of state said that the chieftainships would be only until the first subsequent general elections for local self-government because we are talking today, we are discussing the Law, about the final proposal of the Law on Local Self-Government, which will enter into force on October 1st and will be valid. It would be sincere of the government if it had made and said that this law was valid until the first next local elections, which means until 3 Sunday of May 2009. At that time, we would really know that the government had committed itself to proposing to this House a new Law on Local Self - Government. As the laws are proposed it is said that then will be directly elected mayors, mayors and mayors, but the government in no way, except here declares, we will consider, adopt some laws, etc. But the government also has the conclusions of this House on very specific things that it does not respect, let alone respect what the Government's representative is saying. Therefore, amend the transitional and final provisions and say that this Law enters into force on the 8th day of its publication in the "National Journals" and is valid until 3rd Sunday of May 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42443	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42444	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Here is also this Law and the very fact that it has come to a parliamentary debate enough space opens up enough space for all of us to consider in what direction we want future development of local self-government units. I am firmly convinced that the Croatian state will also be as strong and powerful as its units of local self-government. The development of local self-government goes gradually and for this very reason I support such solutions as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I am particularly pleased that the article that prevented certain units of local self-government from having their own headship is changing. Because there were indeed incompatible duties where legally elected members of the representative body, so the council, at the same time brought and implemented the budget without being able to act as other units of local self-government. And I believe that this article is just as good as this transitional solution because it simply cannot be allowed to be the same people as representatives of both legislative and executive authorities. In this case, to bring the budget and to have the same budget. I am pleased that the goal of this government is to further strengthen the units of local self-government and I am particularly pleased that it is going to be a permanent improvement of local, regional, or regional officials. And I believe that just through this one permanent training and education of all those who act at the level of local self-government will help both better understanding and better understanding. And that this will create the critical mass that will continue to be permanently fought for as many rights as possible and as much power as possible to directly elected leaders, and at the lowest level, from the municipality, the city, the county, and so on. When it comes to large cities here, I support the amendment submitted by Croatian Parliament President Vladimir Seks and MP Tomislav Culjak, in the sense of reducing this population from 40 to 35,000. Perhaps just to point out that the Vinkovci so far have been the temporary headquarters of the County of Vukovar-Srijem and that the Vinkovci are the largest city at this time by the number of inhabitants, as well as by the economy and everything else in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. And that is why I support this amendment, which I hope will receive the necessary majority in the adoption of this law. Nowhere in the law does it say that certain units of local self-government cannot perform together. In this regard, I would like to stress that currently in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, several development projects of a single unit of local self-government work together in economic, development and infrastructure projects. For example, the municipalities of Germany, Tovarnik, Lovas and Tompojevci will make one joint economic project, and when it comes to the development of the economy and infrastructure, and that is exactly how we want to show that a common approach can contribute to strengthening local self-government, but also to a joint performance, which is, of course, part of the fact that the small units of local self-government that have been often cited in the debates of individual representatives can in the same way in their environment find a sufficient number of similar units of local self-government and work on joint projects. Of course we have another point to discuss and the direct selection of leaders in local self-government units. And of course we're going to have to tie the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the new Law on Elections of Local Self-Government Leaders. In this respect, we also see this bill, the final law on amendments and additions to the Law on local, regional and regional self-government as a transitional solution. And I sincerely hope that for the 2009 local elections we will have an excellent law on local self-government, a European law on local self-government and that we will continue to take care of local self-government and the need for further strengthening it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42445	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42446	Well, you see, colleagues from HDZ, how dishonest you are in some of your efforts. So there's this law of big cities, four cities left that are big cities today, they won't get that status. It is Samobor with 36 thousand 206 inhabitants, Vinkovci 35 912, Kaštele 34 103 and Djakovo 30 092. And now Parliament Speaker Vladimir Seks, who comes from Osijek, from Osijek-Baranja County, says big cities should be not with 40 but with 35, for the Vinkovci to enter major cities. What about Djaco's? And why Djakovo bothers to stay a big city if today is, why can't Kašteli be a big city if they are today. I'm surprised that fellow Shakespeare has no need for his Slavons, for Đakovo, from his county to ensure that he remains a great city that has decentralised functions as he has now been. And if you're being dishonest, you say that last time you went to the first step of decentralisation together there were two laws, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Finance, so you saw what these big cities would be financed from, and here you can't see what public roads would be from, you can only see that big cities are supposed to get that power and you can't see where the money is, the money stays in the state budget. I'm not sure that the government will be prepared to allocate funds for public roads, which are state roads in the big city area, and that's what Minister Schuker wrote to you in the budgeting guidelines. No more money from the state budget for local self-government. Less than inflation levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42447	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42448	Mr. Mršić, in the past term between the Law on Local Self-Government on the agenda in the former assembly of the Croatian Parliament and instead of making those steps that you are saying are necessary, you have abolished the headship of local self-government units up to 3,000 inhabitants and for purely political reasons. I don't mind if I also get Djakovo's big city status, and I expect the MPs from that constituency will certainly define themselves accordingly. Dear Representative Mršić, give a little today during the morning you often throw it out of the bench. Don't make me do Article 214. Everyone listened carefully, please listen to both of you and stop breaking in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42451	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nikola Vuljanić. The word has an esteemed representative Drazen Bošnjaković. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Vladimir Plesko. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42452	I thank Mr. Vice President, I apologize my colleague Vuljanic was in front of me on the list, so I apologize to her.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42453	A little work on the physical kit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42454	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I will say one thing for the introduction, we forget today in this debate about everything that has been done in Croatia's history, before this recent Croatian history of local self-government, about bringing citizens closer to the needs of those who distribute some budgets. For 45 years, we had different examples than the wheels, municipalities, local communities, we had examples of social and political councils, councils of local communities, councils of joint work, executive councils, for example, I can say that for my former municipality of Zabok, which had 180 delegates, 15 members of the executive council. Why am I saying that? I am saying this because today's local self-government is far simpler, far closer to citizens in the Republic of Croatia and far better understood the needs of citizens. It should be said from all of this, that this process of decentralisation from 92 to 93 did many things in terms of municipal infrastructure, in terms of road construction, sewage and all that. It is normal that this newest law that we have here today continues to bring the needs of citizens closer, meaning what needs to be built, what needs to be done, to bring it closer to the one who is also deploying, through elections for the council of municipal, city councils, for the county council. It should also be said that today's administration is effective but that in many things it is necessary to do so even more through the procedure and state bodies, as well as through the selection procedures, to control citizens so that there are no possible malfeasances, possible abuses of the positions of persons selected in those bodies. It means that every one of those kunas that gets picked up through taxes, which is collected through the different gifts that citizens have, is really used for the needs that citizens on the ground have. Therefore, I must say that this proposal is good, precises many of the irregularities that have been made by the last amendments to the 2001 Law have been unarranged and that in this way in the future, it will be easier to control the work of these municipal councils of the County Assembly and that everyone will know exactly where is the responsibility of the individual mayor, individual mayor or mayor. What may be unclear with this proposal today and what I would like to warn the Secretary of State and all of us are a few articles of this bill, so I would like a little bit about it. For example, in Article 3 where the powers of local self-government units are discussed, I must stress that, with all the other provisions that they are dealing with and which is part of the work of the local self-government unit, there is no emphasis that the units of local self-government are also discussing the development of the economy, which is why I recall it, which is why it underlines it. I underline this because the local self-government unit is doing spatial planning documentation, the local self-government unit subsidizes credit lines for small and medium-sized enterprises. The local self-government unit handles and solves the problems of economic zones. In practice, the work on this normative list does not mean economic development, so I believe that this should be completed in Article 3. Also in Article 15 of the current Amendment and the addition of the Law, I consider that there is one small illogicality, which is given the size of the unit of local self-government and the number of members of the headship that could be chosen in the future. For example, the current proposal says that it means one to ten thousand people to elect three to five members in the headship. From ten thousand to thirty thousand is five to seven members. Over 30,000 inhabitants are seven to nine members. I think it might be a little different to do this division and that for units of local self-government up to five thousand inhabitants, there should be three to five members, five to ten members of five to seven members of the headship, and that means maybe nine to eleven for units of local self-government up to 35,000 inhabitants. Why am I talking about a schedule like that? I am speaking for this reason that you have examples of units of local self-government, municipalities and cities that have seven, eight, ten thousand, to ten thousand inhabitants that can not be called into office by two members at the meeting of the headship, that at the meeting of the headship it can normally function with three members and if two are in agreement with a practical decision, important decisions for the local self-government unit can be made with the minority in relation to the total number of elected members of the headship. And I believe that such a change could lead to better, more consistent and more transparent work of the respective headships. Also, in Article 17, there is one question. Article 17 states that the municipal chief, mayor or mayor may request a vote on the trust of the headship. If the representative body does not make a decision regarding the proposal of the municipal chief, the mayor or mayor, which confirms the trust of the headship, it is therefore considered that the headship has been given mistrust. But it is not clear whether or not the mayor, the mayor and the mayor, along with the entire headship. This should be specified in detail because if one mayor, mayor or mayor goes to one such form of vote of no confidence to his headship whom he has proposed, and if that headship does not get re-confirmation by mine, it should be clearly indicated that at that time and the mayor no longer has his support. And there is another remark or request to try to fit into this bill and that is an addition that also on the ground sometimes causes certain problems. And that's that some mayors, the mayors don't want to hold elections for the council of local committees. So I believe that this should also be included in this bill and that in the areas where the mayors, the mayors, are obstructing this local self-government, means they do not hold elections for the councils of local committees to put this on the table means that the government may, within a certain period of not implementing elections for local committees, disband the representative body of that unit of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42455	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42456	Although I do not think that the issue of the number of members of the headship is at all a measure of this story but I cannot accept one fact at all, which is that by proposing the disbanding of the headship, the mayor also proposes disbanding himself because he would de facto equate the position of members of the headship and mayor, regardless of what he proposes. For example, the mayor may suggest I don't know any experts or party people, it doesn't matter, there's some kind of financial or political lobby showing up and getting involved in his business. As such, he has the right to propose to the council to disband the headship. But if we're talking about a finesse like that, then we should still raise the mayor above the level of the headmaster because then we can actually put them in one plane and actually lose the whole sense. And imagine when we get the law to get the mayor elected directly. Then actually the mayor should be able to disband the council whenever he wants, let alone the headship.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42457	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42458	Thank you, Mr. President. I must remind myself that the Secretary of State here also pointed out that primarily this law is for a period of time until the next local elections, meaning where according to the existing legislation on selecting municipalities, means the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government and that this refers to the period until the next election round when they will be elected by direct elections. However, it is necessary to say one other thing, that there is always the possibility that a man who, at some point in time, supported by a number of people from the municipal or city council, would have entered a disproportionate relationship with his proposals and with his team of chieftains to the municipal and city councils or the county council, and that at that moment he would no longer care about the interests of the unit of local self-government rather than worry more about the interests of the group that he presides through the municipal, urban or county council. If at that moment he entered the process of making his proposal confirmed to him, it means his headship in the debate and the exercise of trust, and if that trust has not passed him, then it means that the whole body has not received trust, and as president of that body, I think that he should then bear a certain responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42459	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42460	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President! Here, let me also get involved in this debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. At first, I can say that I will not support this law proposed by the Government for a simple reason. Therefore, the most basic reason is that no means for its implementation have been provided. I have always been a parliamentary representative and now as president of a regional party i.e. The Međimurje Democratic Union has advocated the descent of as much power as possible to local and regional levels but the basic principle that it would have to be satisfied is that these powers must have their financial coverage and not only to the units of local self-government and administration and regionally impose additional obligations. And I can tell you that the situation is at present quite difficult in the units of regional and local self-government because the budgets they are now forming are small, so the municipalities will both be in great crisis in the future. What I would like to warn you, therefore, is that from this law to read that as for specific powers that descend to lower levels, these are large cities, therefore larger cities, as spoken over 40,000 inhabitants. Then cities as county headquarters are covered, so cities that have fewer inhabitants but also have counties. So they are given certain powers that have so far been at the level of ministries, states or other institutions. For example, for example, these cities and counties are given the opportunity to issue construction and location permits, other works related to the construction and implementation of spatial planning documents for the area of counties outside the large city area. Basically nothing is going to happen because people in the same places as so far will be able to get those permits, I mean the city itself. Only the bearer of these activities will change, ducks will not get any better positions for the citizens themselves and the cost will therefore be moved, moved to the county or the city. Well, that's how I have a statement from a mayor in Istria, specifically from Pazin speaking. "We are familiar with this proposal, which is a lot of solution from the existing one, but we think that we miss this job as well as other smaller cities in the county because we currently have neither man or equipment nor means to deal with the issue of permits." In this regard, I would like to remind myself that Article 32 decidedly states that the large cities and counties that have been assigned to the work of the state administrations in the counties will be taken over by officials, jobs and letters in accordance with a special law that will prescribe the process and the deadlines for the takeover. So we see what is the new obligation of cities and counties with this, so here it was emphasized that they did not install it into the current budget which therefore creates and will probably have to then only later do it. A much larger obligation is with an item also being kept as an obligation, so it is the maintenance of public roads. It's a big job, so it's also carried on to the burden of cities and counties. So the burden that has so far been financed through certain sources, and the main part of the source here we've heard. This is 0.60 lipa per litre of gasoline went to the Croatian Roads Fund for construction and maintenance of state roads. So far, Croatian roads have been in charge of maintenance of public roads and have therefore been mostly financed from the road, from, therefore, part of the price of fuel. It is important to note, for example, that Croatian roads manage and lords with a network of national roads with a total length of 6 thousand 934 kilometers. So now, the maintenance of these roads would go to the burden of the municipalities and the county. What's the condition of that road? In good and very good condition is only 28% of the stakes. It's in an acceptable condition, 25% of the stake. It's in bad shape. 23% of the stakes. It's in very poor condition 24% of the stakes. So I'm only talking about state roads, not county and locals that were so far cared for by the county, cities and municipalities. So we are talking about this part, and this reconstruction and maintenance of these roads will require large funds for which we will not receive compensation in the State budget. So the Croatian Roads plan on the maintenance of roads in the entire republic tells us that 613 million were intended for maintenance in 2005. That 793 million kunas were planned in 2006. In 2007. 971 million kuna, and in 2008 a billion and 123 thousand kunas are projected to cost Croatian roads to maintain public roads. So a billion kuna is what is fundamental to maintaining public roads, which will have to separate counties and cities so later, additionally to have public roads in such a standard. Is that possible? With these today's budgets hard. Here's the Međimurje County has a budget of about 90 million kuna, for example. And right now, a county assembly will be held to rebalance that budget by 2.5 million kuna. So our budget in Međimurje County is 90 million kuna. The state budget is 90 billion kuna. So our county in that redistribution gets only one change of total assets. This may be to point out that the population in Međimurje accounts for 2 and a half percent of the population of the Republic of Croatia. This is what we see, therefore, the disproportionateness in expenditures, therefore, in revenues, in grants, and I think it is most necessary to do so in order for local self-government, regional self-government, and for those tasks that the Government has assigned to this law to be achieved. to strengthen the position of local and regional self-government. So for this reason, I can say that we cannot support this law. He gives new obligations to the counties, cities and municipalities, but he also doesn't foresee any, so neither can this law. It does not provide for any means to enable such powers to be exercised. I believe that this law cannot do so, but we have heard that our municipalities have received guidance, so the minister himself is also saying that there will be no significant redistribution in that budget cake, and in favour of the units of local administration and self-government. I don't think this is a good way to go and next year, actually next year will be a crisis year in the functioning of our system of regional and local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42461	Thank you. The word has the vice president of the House, the esteemed representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42462	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club, I have spoken of something among other things about decentralisation of local and regional self-government, but I must say that I would personally like to highlight a particular issue which is unfortunately not covered by any amendments or additions to the Law on Local Self-Government of the Government, nor is it covered by the law of the PGS Representatives' Club. What's this about? It is, in fact, a matter of regional development and the role of regional self-government related to the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to say quite clearly and openly about some issues that are often mentioned in public with us. It is called of course, first of all, the City of Zagreb and then some other county and so on, but that's where it should be said. The city of Zagreb as a unit of local self-government is not guilty of being in such a position compared to the rest of our county or regional, regional self-government, but we must simply say that we have failures in state policy and all aspects. From the development through economic policy through legal policy that needs to be regulated by regulations and to ensure the regional development of the Republic of Croatia that we are not these issues... solve and ensure regional development for the benefit of equal and uniform development of the entire Republic of Croatia on the one hand and on the other hand to make good use of the comparative advantages of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues we are one of the few countries that has almost ideal schedules of mountain-mountan area with agricultural space and agricultural land covered. Of course, the coast, the coast, the coast, and we, too, have to put that part from the aspect of regional development into a function that is in fact the comparative advantages of certain parts of the Republic of Croatia by putting into office that the comparative advantages of other parts of the Republic of Croatia in order to ensure quality growth and development of the total country. Because we're only going to take an example of tourism. Unfortunately, when you take more than 60% of food imports into Croatia, and through tourism we practically pay for that food twice, and instead of achieving certain results on our food, we get actually counterproductive and counter-damaging. Let me show you just on the indicators that then specifically warn you. And then this also leads to that concept that is no longer a regional development of the Republic of Croatia but which draws more and more towards regionalism as separate forms within the Republic of Croatia that lead it and possibly to different forms of actually individual authorities, i.e. divided powers in the development of the Republic of Croatia. About that, that's another topic. Look, if you take the latest data on the movement of national gross product per capita in our counties, then for 2004, we'll have the latest data, see that in Zagreb it's almost 24 thousand per capita head or 23 thousand 361 thousand, and that's that in the least-developed Vukovar-Srijem County, only 2070 or 12 times less. When you take to say Brod-Posavina, it's almost 11 times smaller or it's 2113 dollars a head. Or Virovitica-Podravska 10 times, 2352. Požeško-slavonska 2 thousand 600 or 9 times or, for example, take Sisak-moslavina 2 thousand 6, again almost 9 times etc. And now there's something that's amazing. The former areas which have been and are by their natural historical characteristics, the source of food production and processing in our country have unfortunately become the most underdeveloped areas in the Republic of Croatia, on the one hand, on the other hand, they are areas as well as Dalmatian hinterland that have suffered the most and died in the war and remain more and more, if I may say, undeveloped or better, more and more lagging behind in growth and development compared to developed parts, areas of the Republic of Croatia. But when we say the more developed then we should see the following fact, that compared to the most developed area of the City of Zagreb, let's say the first next county, which is Istria County, it has 9,000 600 or almost 2 and a half times lag behind Zagreb, and behind it the next 3 and a half times Primorje-goranska etc.. Therefore, we must start to discuss these issues and from the aspect of the legislative policy how to set up the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government which will allow the functional development of the Republic of Croatia and all its areas for an even and equal legal start in the development of the Republic of Croatia in such a situation. Once we discussed the budget, I was saying that we should open up the possibility that the incomes of local self-government units should not be held by the business banks that we now have and which are placed in accordance with our own interests, but rather to open up the possibility of adopting a special law that will allow for the opening of a municipal bank, to place their money in the municipal banks of our cities and to use that money as an incentive to invest in investment investments in order to place that property in the function of growth and development of these areas of our Republic of Croatia as a whole. Let us not forget that huge assets and human potentials are found in these areas that are not actually used, which come into a difficult situation and at the same time, of course, ask questions about what is wrong with them. Rightfully, they're right to ask a question. Another thing that I must specifically point out, we must abandon the concept of the central state. What we talk about from time to time more or less about decentralisation is one thing, facts and figures are inexorable and show unfortunately another. They show that of the total donations in the Republic of Croatia is about 10%, let's not speak exact figures are spinning and belonging to units of local and regional self-government. Almost half of it is waste in the City of Zagreb. Yes, but colleagues and colleagues, the question arises where life is going and we, when we look at it from that aspect, unfortunately get exactly what we don't want. Through the decentralisation that we are trying to formally and declaratively represent, in fact, then there are various restrictions that prevent the functioning of units of local and regional self-government from participating in those grants themselves. Whether they are doing those tasks that the Constitution or the law requires them to do. And a third thing, within the scope of these units of local self-government, but not just from the aspect they are now receiving, but as they could be a fairer distribution. About how, on average, the Government in Central Europe, not in the most developed part of Europe and in the Republic of Croatia, should achieve it, so that it should be arranged to carry out really these tasks in accordance with the specific laws on units of local self-government, and that changes should be made and complemented not only by law but also by the new concept of the Law on Local Self-Government. And beyond that, there will only be a question of how and how to exercise the rights to the local self-government of our citizens and how to implement it through what organisational forms. Unfortunately, instead, we are increasingly discussing actually officials in local self-government units, how we will choose them, what powers they will have, and not what opportunities they open to the development of local self-government to meet the direct interests and needs of our citizens. And in that context, I really think that this opportunity should also be used regardless of what this is about amending and supplementing the law, that this law goes into third reading, and by the third reading, we should actually prepare a proposal for a new law that will regulate a little different this issue. I especially stress, you know, in Slavonia a form of regionalism appeared. Do not ignore the fact that he, did not first report to Slavonia, long before he appeared in Dalmatia, long ago he appeared in other parts, Primorje, Istria, etc.. This is just a continuation of the avalanche that followed as a non-response, in fact, the countries in carrying out one of their fundamental functions of economic growth and economic policy management, from banking, I don't know, economic policy, to the policy of regional development of the whole country. And that's where we have to leave the question. One of the areas in which this debate is to be started is the establishment and operation of local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42463	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42464	Of course, I would like to point out once again how important it is when we say financing, and I think that a colleague touched one part, but he did not finish, because constantly speaking about the City of Zagreb, there is a certain unrest in other cities and municipalities. What is most important is precisely the balance that is achieved by laws and regulations, and we are on the best path to regulate this part of today's matter independently in a way that large banks, large companies that have seats, and branches have in other parts of Croatia, in the county headquarters, to stop there part of the profit tax. It is a very effective job and in this way we will not constantly make it to Zagreb, live in Zagreb, how to achieve a income of 20 thousand. In fact, the government's policy is very clear when we say it is in the pursuit of the lending of small entrepreneurs. In this way, the possibility is realized that the good regulation and programme that the Croatian Government has brought to our county by 2010, we will have almost 10 thousand and 100 dollars per capita. It is very important for this legislative role that this House has, but let us focus on something that touches this issue, which is that the tax on profits that large companies make with headquarters in the capital, and they have branches in the county headquarters, that this part be achieved and left in our large headquarters. Of course, the politicntric development should go from county to up, not that the wish of every Imogen or Sinjan or Vrgorčan or Hvar is to come to Split, and every Splitnin to go to Zagreb with good traffic connections, good highways, we will have good cars, so that we can reduce the desire to come to one big city at all, pay a big cut, and be in small apartments, compressed and depressed, and on the other part of the 3 hours we drive to Zagreb, we see no left or right soul for 2 hours. Provide an opportunity for these units of local self-government that those who want to build, who want to achieve large farms, large economies or ranches, to allow them to come to these great spaces. Now it is easy to come, easy to get out of any city, from Sibenik, from Zadar, from Split and Rijeka and back home. It is also a task in these next steps in the reform that will be. Now it's too soon for a full reform to work. I believe it will be a step after these elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42465	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the Vice-President of the House, Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank my colleague Peronji, because you said one of the measures that should actually be implemented to ensure the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. I support that, I think, between that and the income tax, we should completely bring down units of local and regional self-government and get together where employees live, etc. Therefore, these are all the measures he has arranged. The only reason I answered for the reply to the replica. I did not call the City of Zagreb, I was talking about facts and facts that are official statistics. I congratulate the City of Zagreb on its growth and development, because it is not only the merit of the state, but also the units of local self-government in the City of Zagreb which is located in the area and which is best managed thanks to a series of circumstances and a series of opportunities that it has made good use of. I do not think that the City of Zagreb should be named, not the City of Zagreb is guilty of such a situation in the local and regional self-government of us, but rather the wrong policy that is being led from the central level or rather not by regional development, and it is time to start leading. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42467	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42468	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to replicate to the esteemed Vice President, Mr Arlovic, in a way to highlight the dilemma of these two Croatians, developed and developed Croatia, about Zagreb, Istria, Primorje-Gorski County or those counties from the bottom of the scale or from the bottom of the list that my colleague Arlovic was talking about. Of course, the aim of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, but also of all other laws that are passed in this High House, is to try to balance development, i.e. to enable those who are less developed to develop more rapidly. But absurd these ideas, i.e. in terms of its implementation. Just look at the fact that if we leave a 100% income tax to the local self-government unit. The unit that has been poor so far has a lot of unemployed people and its increase with income tax base will be relatively low. Those who are more developed, who have a lot of employees, will further increase their units' income of local self-government. Of course, leaving the central state concept is the goal. But I would also remind myself that without the central state concept, we would not be able to restore the whole of the previously occupied Croatia. In this county, 52% of the space to restore more than 10,000 houses that were destroyed in the Homeland War, the complete infrastructure that was destroyed in that space, and unfortunately, we will still have to help from the central state register for a long time to help those environments that alone are unable to build their own development, enable employment and increase living standards to their citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42469	Replica's reply, the Honorable Vice President of the House, Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42470	In this regard, we are colleagues and we differ about this approach to the growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. Whether a centralised or decentralised regionalally developed country is through a regional development concept. I'll just convince you, unfortunately, of that data. You see, dear colleague, the difference in development, for the 2003 data. For example, Virovitičko-Podravska County lags behind the City of Zagreb 8 and a half times, for 2004. Ten times. So growth does not reduce the difference but it increases and drastically because they cannot follow. Or, for example, take Požega-Slavonski. She was eight times behind, now nine times. Well, your carlovica county is lagging behind more than it was in 2003, even though it is not forgotten either, and it is below average because the average of the Republic of Croatia is 7000 and 732, the Carlovica County is 5 thousand and 126. In such a situation, the question is, in fact, what kind of policy we are conducting. I argue that this policy from the central level must be different, it must open up more space for regional self-government units to act as natural economic, economic and human resources, so that it can engage them for growth and development, etc. That's number one. Number two. We must not forget that these are areas that have been affected by war destruction where large economic areas have suffered, where a large number of people have been killed, killed, wounded, etc. But we must not forget that by converting and privatising more damage to economic operators, in these areas it was done by converting and privatising rather than by war destruction because the Republic of Croatia did not respond until today. And we need to definitely sit down about these things, look ourselves in the eye and ask ourselves what we want with our country. Here, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42471	Thank you. We finished this morning's session. Continuation is at 15.00 hours. It is next to the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. We'll proceed with the afternoon session. It is next to the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42473	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In this afternoon's section after the debate on problems at least in this round of local self-government has lasted yesterday and today and the debate has already been said at the end. In my brief discussion, I would limit myself to only one proposal, primarily to the proposal of the Law Club of the CNS and to Chapter IV. concerning the participation of citizens or the involvement of citizens in the decision-making process. I would suggest that the second reading should be considered at all, and another article would be included, which would also allow the Council of National Minorities to establish and form youth councils in local self-government units primarily in cities and municipalities. In fact, what is quite a problem in Croatia today but not only in Croatia but throughout Europe is the minimal political participation of citizens in decision-making and this problem is much more pronounced when it comes to young people, even some relevant political research concerning young people say that this high percentage of youth abstinence especially at local level is seen as a great danger even for the future of representative democracy as such. As I said, this problem is also recognised at European levels and has been developed in Europe by a number of models, and especially at local self-government levels, young people can be involved in the lives of local communities. And in this respect, in Europe but not only in Europe, because we have an example in Croatia of the youth councils are recognized and implemented as a very successful model that needs to be bridged on the one hand by a generational gap in political decision-making and on the other hand, which allows for the direct participation of young people as well as the development of a sustainable partnership between young and local self-government units. In order to be able to implement youth councils in Croatian legislation, we have two good foundations and two good documents in this Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The first document was revised at the Charter on the participation of young people in the life of the municipality and the region adopted by the Congeres local and regional authorities of the Council of Europe. And the second document is our Croatian document The National Youth Action Programme, which was unanimously adopted in late 2002 in the Croatian Parliament where it is one of the measures of the National Programme and the establishment of the Youth Council. What these councils of young people feel is what I need to say because a lot of this has been discussed in this House on several occasions. Youth councils are mandatory advisory bodies of local self-government units, primarily municipal and city councils, as well as mayors and mayors. These include representatives of young representatives of student councils, youth sports associations, political underages and any other form and youth associations operating in the area of a city and municipality. And naturally, youth councils are tasked with representing the interests and needs of all youth groups in the area of a city or some municipality and coordinating activities towards young people. For this reason, I am talking about this problem on the occasion of the debate on this law in order to be able to establish a council of young people is necessary precisely in the Law on local and regional (regional) self-government to introduce a provision that would allow for the establishment of a council of young people, and then a more detailed establishment and detailed provision concerning youth councils would be laid down by a special Act on Youth Councils. Why should this other law be passed? Because there's order to be introduced. A lot of the municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia now have formed councils of young people. It's mostly about environments where the mayors and mayors were more sensitive to such ideas. We have good examples in Koprivnica. We have a good example with Parliament's youth in the Primorje-Gorski County, we have a good example in Požega and in some other cities and municipalities that I don't unjustly abandon. But in some cities and municipalities where young people did so on their own initiative and where there was no hearing of mayors and mayors, they formed themselves as NGOs and then, in fact, destroying this European concept which would say it should be a pawn for both local authorities and youth associations. In this sense, the adoption of a special law is not at the beginning of Croatia. Almost two years during 2002 and almost all of 2003, all interested parties agreed. I also think of associations and representatives of ministries and youth of political parties. In the summer of 2003, the entire text of the bill was completed and fully agreed, but the draft law also passed the government's procedure. But as the parliament was disbanded and parliamentary elections were called into motion, the law failed to vote. However, despite the change in power at the end of 2003, everything seemed to be fine and the law would soon be here in Parliament, even in the Action Plan for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2004 planned to pass the law in May 2004. I am sorry that fellow MPs, especially some have no interest in hearing about local self-government but at least I think we should have the interest to hear about involving young people in the lives of local and regional units because tomorrow everyone will talk about young people in the first place and there is no will or desire to hear about how it can be done on one model that is verified and at European level. So, I'm going on. When the law was made, when everything was brought into line with NGOs, when it was so implemented that it was to be passed in 2004 it kind of sort of stopped. On several occasions, I was personally encouraged by the questions of associations and young people who were interested in such forms by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity responsible for young people, and would constantly receive an answer that the law was only about to be in the House because here it is over. But it's been almost two or three years since the law. There's no "Z" from the law. The agreed proposal has been stored somewhere in the drawer and has started to draft a new law which, as far as I can hear from the representatives of NGOs, does not meet the fundamental principles of ensuring the independence and sustainability of the youth councils. When I talk about independence, I think about independence from any political structures, and I wouldn't owe it now because I hope that the law will be almost on the agenda and that we will have opportunities to discuss it. But I would now pray that in this House several times a consensus has been reached on the need for the adoption of the Law on Youth Councils or in this law of implementing a provision that would allow for the adoption of a special law and open the possibility of establishing a council of young people to really achieve consensus because I see no reason why this would not be so. And I'm sorry except that this topic always comes to an end that no one's ever said anything about it before. I think so, i.e. I'm sure it's just the president of the SDP Club. But once again, I hope that this vote will be heard because the latest information of young people is in decision-making processes and in places where it is decided in the presidential bodies only as much as their adult permits of space and then I guess we are the adults who can make decisions to involve young people in the work of youth councils and in active life in local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42474	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42475	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! There are also several neural points in both proposals, so I'm going to try to sum them up in a certain order. First of all, one intention that is seemingly very democratic, which is actually going towards the development and advancement of democracy in Croatia, which is the direct choice of mayors, mayors, the mayor of the municipalities, in order to actually combat one major influence of partytocratism, or to combat various irregularities or abuses of election results, which, in some ways, derogate the will of voters. These would be approximately intentions or would be about arguments justified by supporters of such direct elections and amendments to this Law and which I say seem to look very logical, very democratic and a certain advance in development and parliamentaryism and democracy in Croatia. But there are a few things that actually cause big doubts now that you're looking a little deeper into this problem and I'm saying a seemingly attractive idea. The first is the fact that in the Republic of Croatia we have 560 or slightly more than 560 units of local self-government plus 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb. So somewhere around 580 units of local self-government. It is very questionable actually how many of these 580 units of local self-government are actually functional units of local self-government, how many of them all, do all of them work and can all of them actually consume all the forms of democracy that should be given their position. First of all, it is seen from the very fact that, for example, according to candidates for the direct selection of the municipal chief, 100 signatures should be collected. On, it seems to be very small and should possibly increase that number. However, it should not be increased when you look at the fact that there are actually municipalities that have, say, about 1,000 or even below 1,000 not voters but residents. That's when that 100 number doesn't look so small. The second neurolgic point is actually in this issue of powers that would have been so directly elected, or directly elected, both the mayors and the mayors, because I am asking a very simple question. For example, it is elected in the direct elections of the mayor or mayor of one policy, one political party. Who is a member of a political party that represents one policy. At the same time, the same election elects a representative body, which is largely represented by representatives of other policies, some other political parties. In that case, you will have one policy represented by the mayor and another policy represented by the majority in the representative body, for example, in the City Assembly. I ask the question which policy will be implemented? Then if that's how you throw me out of the bench, it'll be voluntary and compromiseable, then in that case, you already have a case you mentioned as negative consequences. Advise policy. Furthermore, the third neural point of the whole story is actually the price of choice. Who will pay for 580 units of local self-government twice the price of the election because the price will double if not by the fact itself, if not simply by the fact that we will have choices that we have so far. So for a representative body that costs something, an organization of these choices. Now we're going to have another election going at the same time, and that's for the direct selection of mayors. Well, then it's even proposed that this direct election of mayors be in two circles. So another round of special choices. We could practically say another third choice. So even if the representative body wants to recall such a directly elected mayor, which is already "sui generis" illogical, then in itself illogically that it can replace someone else's body, not the one who chose it. Because if it was elected by citizens in the direct elections, then, by the logic of things, only they should be able to change it and not transfer their powers to some representative body that will replace it or seek its recall. On the other hand, it is planned if they would ask for a referendum. Who's going to pay for that referendum because it costs something and so on. So, according to this proposal, the prices of local elections in Croatia would at least double if they did not triple. Furthermore, the 4th point is actually a matter of intensification to reduce the importance of parliamentary democracy at local level. It is certain that the direct election of mayors and mayors, and the mayor, is indeed one tendency to reduce the importance of parliamentary democracy at local level, and thus actually to halt the development of parliamentary democracy because it is actually about encouraging the creation of local powers. I will remind myself of the times when, by direct elections, only one candidate was elected by the president of the Municipal Committee. It was quite direct and then it was known which address should be contacted if you need anything. And finally, I ask a very simple question in the context of this neural point. All in favour of the direct election of mayors, mayors, mayors of municipalities, why do they not advocate the direct election of Prime Minister? Then what's the difference? Why introduce at local level a direct choice for executive power rather than introducing that direct choice for executive power at country level. What's the difference? And, with the exact same arguments that we're up against the local level. Why would the first man of the executive authority of this state be chosen by a representative body and all others should be elected directly? The 5th thing is actually by my personal court, moving away from the parliamentary system. The vast majority headed by counterpart Kramaric, who constantly throws his comments behind my back so that he hears this whole hall was one of the progenitors of the introduction of so-called. a clean parliamentary system. All his life he claimed that he, in fact, was a political life I think in Croatia, he claimed to be a representative of the parliamentary system. And not only him, but also the vast majority of parties and colleagues. And the clean parliamentary system actually means that executive power is chosen by elected deputies. Between elected deputies and such a clean parliamentary system, there are only Great Britain from me known examples in Europe where, in order to become a member of the executive authority, you must first be elected there. And that means you have to be a member of the representative body, a member of Parliament, so you can become a member of the government. It's a pure parliamentary system. Where is now taking up this clean parliamentary system when we are actually standing up for the direct choice of executive power. And I'm finally asking a completely prosaic question. Response to local elections was on average 30% of voters in the last local elections. I ask the question, how much do you think or suppose the voter will come out, say, in the second round for selecting the municipal chief? Well, somewhere in my judgment between 10% and 15%. Who are they going to represent? 10% of voters by direct election and claim that they are actually the ones representing the entire local community. That's questionable, and I'll continue final in five minutes on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42476	Replica, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42477	First, let me tell my colleague, Rosie, that I'm still thinking about living, and I haven't decided to die as fast as he obviously wishes. But I don't know who to refer to, in fact, this remark, whether a colleague of Rosic or Mr. Chairman of yours is a major deconcentration, because this is just the next item of the agenda, so my colleague Rosic has a little bit of a mix of texts that he should be talking about. This is about a proposal concerning the reform of local self-government and administration, and with the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors we will only talk in the next item of the agenda so as to ask him to be a little more collected. And secondly, these literature about these dilemmas is so written, even in translation exists, it would be good for colleagues to consult some of them so that they do not burden us with such dilemmas that have long been solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42478	Thank you. He really skipped the agenda a little bit. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42479	... So I wasn't sure if I had both the blades, because I borrowed this one from a colleague here, so I picked up the one that was in my hand. [[Specially enabled.]] But in any case, a very short response to the replica. In fact, what is obvious to Mr Kramarić and where he concluded that I confused his speeches is actually incorrect. Because I wasn't talking about these other laws that don't talk about anything else, but only about how elections would be chosen, direct elections for mayor, but I only cited it as examples of the introduction of the principle of direct choice, and the direct choice is introduced by the law that we are discussing, and not by the one that follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42480	Thank you. We're going to the club debate for five minutes. On behalf of the HSU Club, distinguished representative Josip Sudec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42481	Ladies and gentlemen, listening to this debate, I come to the conclusion that we are talking about two legislative proposals, one that has decided on the summer ridge and one that has decided on deep autumn plowing. The one who opted for the summer wake is only fixing or trying to fix something that is already in office, and this second one is a proposal that also has a consistent law on choice and recall, direct choice and recall of the mayor, mayor and mayor. Far deeper into this problem, however, it is obvious that there is no political will to go so deeply, because if that intention were then the law on election and recall would be valid now or from the new year, and it would not be valid for the next four years or for the next four years, so it would be brought with such a great delay. This reminds me of the following, let's do something now like the pressure of amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, we have to give overnight legal personality to local committees. We gave them a legal personality, nothing happened on the ground because they didn't get a material basis. Therefore, both these amendments and the amendments to the law will not be greater local self-government or deeper, I think we will get certain powers, but there will be no material basis. If the material base doesn't go down then I think this law is another set of laws that won't have its implementing power. But I think it will achieve one goal. This is the law of preparation for those of the great cities to come out of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42482	Thank you. On behalf of the club HSLS DC LS, distinguished representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42483	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Some times it's good when it actually leads to absurdity and I think this is all that happened after May 15th of this year, after these local elections, where it turns out we've actually managed to kill every substance, political substance in our country. And we see that it keeps going on a little bit in Dubrovnik, a little bit in Velika Gorica, in Labin, and I say there's an example as many as you want, and it really has nothing to do with politics or elections, but there are some other features that come to terms, skills, trade, money, etc. But let's get back to the subject. The theme is decentralisation. We can ask ourselves a question here, because many of us have been sitting here since the first day, who has prevented us from doing that decentralisation, that is, when this topic comes up. He's reporting before the election. We all have our mouths full of decentralisation, we all solemnly swear that we will promise, and then we come into a position and then we give it up... that it's a couple of excellent political issues, a question of political will relations in this House. What do laws mean, and why are they very important? They can in some way direct the development of this country. Whether this country will develop in such a way that it will be worth living in Zagreb and that somewhere else in a local environment it will not be worth living and then we have what we have. Well, then we can talk about demographics, white plagues, places that aren't actually inhabited, and that's why these laws that we bring here are guilty. And that's why you have metropolision, you have Zagreb, you have that it's good to live in this town, and in some other cities it's not good to live. In 92 to 93, when this law was passed for the first time, some had already said that Croatia was not rich enough to serve it all, alimony and we showed unfortunately that we were right. So what were we doing? We were doing it, I was saying yesterday, that each of us is trying to bring each session to a new municipality or turn the city, turn the municipality sorry into a city. Today's the second day we turn cities into big cities. We were also trying, I didn't have the tendency to talk about something I don't know, to create an idea of three great Croatian cities without any right to ecclusiveness and immediately with the awareness of having to lead, to have the awareness that then they must live both those places and those cities and municipalities next to these new big cities, besides these new big metropolis. We weren't heard in '94, so it was delayed, and now we've got it. I'm afraid it's mechanical again. The whole problem of Croatia is this monotypic approach. That you have the same relationship with the municipality of x and with something that really has others in your history, in your tradition of content that can really meet the challenges of what is called local self-government. But we don't talk about it. We're talking about the Youth Council,... which is a European city, where it really works. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let me, I've really traveled a lot, I've talked a lot, I've actually made a lot of these contacts, and there are things that are actually more declarative, and they're less practical. Doesn't mean we should give it up, but it's not a big deal. The important thing is something else. How we're about to introduce that political principle. It's gone so shy and I think, again, unfortunately wrong. Again, I think, I have my very nice relationship with my colleague Palaric in this sense that we are trying, to see how to listen and that it is not a party issue. So today when my colleague Chuljak was talking about the Vinkovites, someone else is responding with Djakov. It's like there's another government in Djakov now. It's not a party question. Djakovo will be with this or that government of Djakovo, but now the thing is that we're going to write that Djakovo is Djakovo, Vinkovci Vinkovci, I don't know, Vukovar Vukovar or something else. This as some lucky solution to not knowing the center of the county, I'm not sure that's a happy and good solution. Because I don't know, they are, so you're going to ignore a whole series of other potentials, some of them. There's no functional access. What it actually means, in fact, is that we actually try and face ourselves and that we say that some cities have become mechanical, pure by chance, and that some actually have some tradition and that we should also respect and convert it into legal solutions. And then comes what my colleague Rosic was talking about, a whole series of dilemmas that really professional literature has been working out for a long time. If the Germans can solve this, if the Germans don't have a problem with having a mayor from one position, political options, and the council and the congregations from another, I don't see why it would be such a big problem with us and about something that is, as they say, a illogical point. Why? Something democracy has long known only in us is always very strange because it is not common and then in some ways reduces the possibility of political pressure and trade. Which, admit it, will open the paper today and you will see, headlines that really do not serve us because we have contributed to God, and it was much better that we passed these laws before May 15th than we are now. And now we're reevaluating what's going to happen in 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42484	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42485	I hope that's not good. Thank you. And that we will have wisdom so in some new reading, some new proposal we come up with actually solutions that will be in the function of local self-government and reform, not the politics of individual political options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42486	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, a five-minute debate. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42487	Thank you very much. So, I'm actually going to explain in these five minutes on behalf of the club and answer this question that remains hanging in the air of colleagues Kramaric why? Why can't the Germans and the Croats can't? Well, I don't think I should explain that question. No, I don't think we should explain that question because then we could ask why the Germans can play football in System 4, 4, 2, and we can't. Why did the Germans become Europe's most powerful industrial force after the war, and we failed? Why do the Germans respect the laws and we don't respect them? Why is there no bribery and corruption in Germany in the executive government, and here we have it? Why in Germany, or less, why does everything work differently in Germany than it does with us? It absolutely works differently. So asking such a question is actually risky. Why isn't there a store in Germany that you mentioned? All those who have mentioned this, why there is no trade in the transfer of representatives from one party to another party in Germany. Why there is no purchase of representatives at local level, etc. It's not in Germany either. Is there? [[Intruder: There is, there is.]] There. Well, if there's one thing in Germany why and for what reason do we actually take the German model as something that should be for us a holy letter? Why? ... So, in other words, the answer is very simple. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Whatever model you take from me, whatever model you take from me, one or another model will be performed in a Croatian way. That's the answer. That's the answer, yes. That's the answer to everyone who talks about it. Therefore, when we directly elect mayors, mayors and mayors of municipalities they will not become, they will not become any political balance, they will not become any political corrective, they will not become any political authority, they will not become more effective in the service of their people and their inhabitants but become what I have warned. He'll become the local powers and sheriffs that no one else will be able to change and who will be able to do whatever they want. If that's the decentralisation you want, if this is the road you talked about by colleague Mato Arlović, which is the road to regionalization, then this is a really good model. By the way, Germany is a federal state and in Germany there are no municipalities and no units of local self-government that have less than a thousand inhabitants. Therefore, and there is a direct such direct choice would spend everything else. And what I said about all the political advocates of the parliamentary system so far, and I mentioned that and my colleague Kramaric, not because of his great contribution to the parliamentary system, but because of his throwing him out of the bench, I mentioned him. It just stands. I didn't want his death physically, of course, but in a political sense, that's what I said. During his political life, he advocated the parliamentary system, and since he changed his mind, I really want him to die politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42488	Ugly, ugly. Let's go... Let's move on. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] In the end, he said an awful thing, indeed. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a 5-minute debate was held by the distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42489	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here, I will return, after these global and broad political debates, to the text of the Law that we are discussing, and we are discussing, so that there is no confusion, about the amendment and addition of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Proposal for a Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. So during this debate we heard that most MPs and MPs here still pleaded for decentralisation and although there were objections and they were justified that she might still be insufficient and difficult to implement. However, this proposal amends and complements the Law on Local Self-Government and Regional Self-Government brings further decentralisation. Therefore, we at the HDZ Club support the adoption of this Act because we consider it important, we think it is good to introduce large cities with extended powers and decentralisation and that it is indeed about continuing decentralisation. It is clear that we expect this government to quickly and amend the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, thus ensuring fiscal decentralisation, and it is true that it is only one guarantee for the real implementation of this decentralisation proposed by the Government by this law. In fact, Mršić was saying something that so far the 2001 law knows the concept of a city with more than 30,000 inhabitants who can take over powers and jobs from the county districts is also the fact that it seems to me that no city has taken over any of the county's jobs for a simple reason because there was no guarantee of financing these jobs, it was only those jobs that had special laws then had insurance and financing. There is also an objection that the government should have proposed a deadline within which specific laws should be harmonised as defined for units of local self-government to bring the statutes in line, but we believe in this government, we believe that the government is serious, that it has a concept, and when it lays the foundations of decentralisation that it will also know that decentralisation will implement specific laws to the end. Here, I see that my time is running out there is still a number of good solutions, mainly in leading the headship again in those units that lost it in 2001, and also in return, the end of the incompatibility of the head and head of the office. I'm surprised, but just let me do it, Mr. Vice President, I'm surprised that in this debate, no one has looked back or praised the amendment of this Law in the part where it provides the rights of national minority rights and I'm particularly surprised that it's a colleague of the SDP who's been built to take great care of the rights of national minorities, so it often insinuates illegality in the Zadar City Council, and it's illegal to be clear that there is no such thing as illegality, but there is no manipulation of the rights of national minorities in some other local units in Croatia, so I'm surprised that this proposal has not been given any praise because it has implemented in the provisions of this Law of national minorities under the Constitutional Law. And we finally believe that these proposed amendments should be accepted because they contribute to strengthening local self-government right now, and it is clear that if this next law is adopted, which is on the agenda, on the direct choice of mayors, that we are then expected to be thoroughly amended by this Law on Local Self-Government and Regional Self-Government, but I think that since the application of this Act has been delayed until 2009 to regular elections, I do not think that these amendments should wait and that they should be adopted now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42490	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club for a 5-minute debate, the distinguished representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42491	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, I must say that IDS as a regional party always supports every step even if it was a small step towards decentralisation. Although we believe that this is a partial solution and we believe that partial solutions are not good that decentralisation should be systematically solved in a way that decentralises both money and power. However, we must stress some of the things that are positive in this Law. First of all, I am aware that the proposer has implemented most of the proposals and solutions proposed by the alliance of cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, and thus a small shift in the decentralisation of businesses and strengthening local and regional self-government has been achieved, and in some way deconcentration of authorities. In this way, however, the importance of the alliance of cities and municipalities has been given, but I must also give criticism because of the exclusion of the national or national community of counties. In particular, this proposal introduces the status of large cities and, of course, extends their competences within the self-rule and in the tasks that have so far been in the exclusive jurisdiction of the state administration, and I mean in particular the issues of the issue of building and location permits and other acts related to the construction and implementation of spatial planning documents. We believe that there is still leaving a strict monotypic system of government and also in some way rationalising and raising the degree of economicism in doing business at local level. The proposed normation of mandatory continuous training of officials and local officials through institutions for the development of local and regional self-government in the future to the Academy of Local Democracy will certainly contribute to better practice of local self-government and further strengthening it. However, as a fundamental lack of this proposal for a law is not setting deadlines for the adoption of laws and sublaws which will be necessary for a real and effective transfer of powers between the state administration and local administration or regional self-government. This proposal also does not provide for solutions for the implementation of monetary decentralisation, i.e. that that proposal does not follow and the corresponding amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, and of course this would allow for the rapid life of the proposed solutions. It seems to me that this law without these accompanying acts may be just a dead letter on paper. Therefore, I think the implementing measures are important and should be incorporated into this Final Bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42492	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debate on these agenda points. Finally on behalf of the Proposer. Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42493	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It's hard to answer the debate on this legislative proposal that lasted two days without taking a very long time, but I will try briefly to look back at the most important thing that has happened to me. The debate on these laws has turned into a part of the debate on local self-government in Croatia, and based on several problematic examples of the establishment of local authorities after the recent elections, it tries to make the impression that local self-government in Croatia does not work, however, it is not true that in the Republic of Croatia there are slightly less than 600 units of local and regional self-government and the vast majority of us who come from smaller places know that the concept of local self-government was introduced in Croatia, the concept that there was a strong development of the place, settlements that were not previously the headquarters of the socio-political community. Of course, the normative system is developing and this legislative proposal has been submitted to develop the local self-government system in Croatia. We must say that we have initially had the monitoring of the Council of Europe but experts and politicians of the Council of Europe have come to the conclusion that there is no problem in Croatia with local self-government, monitoring is no longer available and we are directing development into those three key directions and this is to encourage best practice, answer the question of what is the best practice, best experience will say which we are together with the Council of Europe and together with the National Union of Cities and municipalities spent last year and so we will continue regardless of who is in which municipality in power. That best experience we'll try to verify rewards. I must stress that this law was made also in cooperation with the Union of Cities and municipalities, that it was given to them before the reference and in the first reading and when we made the final draft of the law we sent it to them to think that it had never happened before and that the Union of Cities had even writtenly confirmed that it had never been in history since that national association had happened to them that the text in the draft had been delivered to them that they had been able to make observations and that their remarks had been respected. We want to do this and set up a decentralisation framework but it's not the only measure the government is taking in decentralisation. The government has developed a programme of decentralisation for the term of office, the government has set up an inter-resorship committee for decentralisation into which representatives of almost all ministries whose decentralisation can be decentralised at the level of state secretaries and ministerial assistants but the Commission includes representatives of the alliances of cities, the alliances of municipalities and communities, all together and this commission are ready to provide assistance to the international institution operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and on decentralisation, the CARDS programme concluded for decentralisation, which, together with experts of the European Union, will be elaborated to detail. We only give these frameworks, we know that we have to leave the monotypic form of units of local self-government and that we cannot transfer jurisdiction equally to Split, to the city of Split and the town of Vis because they do not have the same financial potential, human resources, and therefore we have to propose abandoning the monotypic form and introducing special categories of major cities that are already administratively and financially ready to take over most of the work. The main interest is that the local self-government is surrounded by these spatial planning problems in such a way that cities, large cities and their area and outside the districts are given the opportunity to issue construction and location permits and thus, in the first degree, to round the business at local level. There is still room for decentralisation of these famous 35 laws in local self-government. They will be brought by dynamics as the Government's Commission for decentralisation as an expert body and later the Government itself. Of course, financial decentralisation must follow, and there is a CARDS project run by the Ministry of Finance together with experts of the European Union, but we cannot make this law, ladies and gentlemen, binding on whom, the Croatian Parliament, to pass all these 35 laws within that deadline. They will be brought and we have now opened the box. After the debate on this bill is over, we will open a debate on the Law on the direct election of mayors, mayors and municipal mayors. We could not have ruled by this law that this law would be passed and we did not want to solve a question that has not yet been opened, and that is why we have not resolved the relationship between the mayor and the council that will be opened when the law is passed and if it is passed. However, we are not proposing an impact delay law, but, in fact, we are proposing a law early enough to debate it thoroughly before its application so that it can go in two readings, we are talking about the next law. So, we did not propose to elect a mayor with a delay, but we launched an early unburdened election and opened a debate on part of the electoral reform in the Republic of Croatia. I thank all those who support the adoption of this law. We'll come forward about the amendments when there's a plea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42494	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Proposer PGS, the esteemed representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! On what Mr. Secretary of State said, let me just have one sentence, so I'll try to quote first. We can't force the government to prepare those 35 laws in some way, us, Parliament or the Office of State Administration. Namely, if I'm not mistaken, this is organic law. If this is an organic law, then I suppose parliament can order the Government and assign it to do something at some point to make this law work and can be implemented. Let's get this dilemma straight. Now, if Mr. Secretary of State thought of the Office of State Administration he really can't force the Government but Parliament should have that opportunity through the organic law to make such a commitment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42496	From what I hear, he didn't tell the secretary of state that the Parliament couldn't do the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42497	No, he said, "We can't. We do.".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42498	Yeah, a little lapus linguae.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42499	I see the government's representative has a new speaker in character and the work of fellow Caine. I think the ideal proposal for a colleague from the Retired Party Club is to conclude that the government's proposal goes to third reading. I would maybe expand it a little bit and ours into another reading, our bill of law into another reading, and that then and by doing so, there would be both government and we in parliament probably come up with one solution that would combine what we now have and these two laws that we're just going to open up because they really are a whole. I can't say, but I'm expressing my skepticism. Has there ever been a debate in parliament in a united debate on the law that is in the second reading and on the law is in the first reading as it has now happened? There was that, my colleague Arlovic says it was. But it would probably be more useful if we had then united the debate on all four drafts of the law under paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 because the debate was actually so guided. A large number of speakers were actually discussing these two laws that should only be discussed now, so that's why I said it might be better. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I would like to thank everyone who has given us a lot of useful remarks, pointed to some of the weaker points of our bill. And it happens that some things you didn't mean to write, or you thought everyone would understand it like when you wrote, especially my colleague, Lugaric, in the debate and a proposal on youth councils. It was further said that we often discuss only local, regional officials, how they will be elected, how they will be replaced when we put local and regional self-government on the agenda. This may be partly accepted if we forget that we have offered, twice in this year and nine months, amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local self-government and the changes that should have been addressed to the issue of the distribution of income tax, so that we offered that the full income tax goes in favour of local self-government and therefore I end up with the following: the government offered a solution to intervention on the existing Law on Local Self-Government. It offers a new electoral model only parts of local self-government, only parts. We are ahead of the local budget and in order to be all smarter, in order to enable local self-government to comply with the law it is necessary and to amend the Law on the financing of local self-government. It is likely that the debate on election models would be far easier, far simpler, and also about this Law on Local Self-Government if it were to see how much money follows the flow of decentralisation that this Law provides. So I urge you to accept the proposal of your fellow pensioners' party to release the government's proposal in the third and our second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42500	Thank you. We've completed our discussion on the previous agenda points.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42501	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. First, we have a proposal from the Club of Representatives of HSU, which reads: "The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government is referred to in the third reading." Please engage. You can vote. The result? For conclusion 24, 7 abstentions, 61 against. The conclusion didn't get the required majority. We are going to the debate and vote on the amendments submitted. I ask the Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Administration, Pavel Maticic, to be made aware of the proposed amendments. Secretary of State... The first amendment of MPs Vladimir Seks and Tomislav Culk. [[You don't understand, because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42503	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government accepts the amendment of MPs Vladimir Seks and Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42504	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Second amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42505	The government does not accept amendments to the SDP club, since it has proposed that an amendment under number 1 be adopted that large cities have only those cities that have more than 35,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42506	Honourable representative Zvonimir Mršić on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42507	So I'm really surprised that you've accepted an amendment where from 40 to 35, because in this case I said so and in the debate, the Vinkovci become a great city, and Djakovo remains a small town and the bishop will now sit in a small town. I don't see any difference between 40, 35 and 30,000, especially since the government only takes the only and only number of inhabitants as a criterion for determining large cities, which means that the moment Djakovo attaches three or four municipalities around it will become a big city. I think it would be very correct for the government to accept a border of 30,000 inhabitants because even today, under the current law, cities with 30,000 inhabitants are cities to which they were transferred in 2001 decentralised functions. I therefore appeal to you, Deputy Secretary of State, and especially to you, President of the Parliament, who comes from the constituency where Djakovo is to support this amendment and allow the city from your constituency to become a big city, to remain a big city.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42508	Please engage. We can vote. The result? 28 for, 1 abstention, 63 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. The third amendment is also the representative of Zvonimir Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42509	The government does not accept the amendment for the reasons that the issues proposed by the amendment are inclusion in this law, subject to material laws, and this is the Law on Public Roads, the Road Safety Act and other rules in the area of transport which are detailedly governed by the authority for the management and maintenance of public roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42510	Thank you. Representative Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42511	Mr. Deputy Secretary of State, you're wrong. This is regulated precisely by this law because several articles before you talk about municipalities and cities, you talk about municipalities and cities in charge of maintaining unclassified roads, and it turns out that in large cities there is no one to worry about unclassified roads. Therefore, if it is true that some other law determines it, then you should delete it from the article before then, and if not, you must certainly determine what is going on in the maintenance of unclassified roads. And secondly, the peaceful traffic is not unequivocally resolved in the Road Safety Act because it does not know whether it is a city, municipality or county-run area. I therefore appeal to you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42512	Thank you. Please engage. We can vote. The result? 23 for closure, 2 abstentions and 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The fourth representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42513	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment for a reason justified by the previous amendment under regular number 3, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42514	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42515	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Secretary of State, I think that public road maintenance jobs should continue to be maintained by the county for reasons of economic and efficiency. The county is founded by a special law by the founder of the County Road Administration, whose competence and public road maintenance operations throughout the county, so it would be irrational to carry out those tasks especially at the level of the large city, and especially at the level of the county, and it is also a question of providing financial resources for these operations. Such a solution would necessarily lead to an increase in the administration, which I find absolutely unnecessary and therefore ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42516	Thank you. Please engage. Please vote. We can vote. The result? For conclusion 20, abstention 3, 66 v. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifth amendment to the representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42517	The government doesn't accept. Since it is part of the county... the final draft law regulated in accordance with the Constitution in relation to the social care activity, and issues related to municipal infrastructure says the management of local matter waters is special laws until inspection supervision can be entrusted to units of local and regional, or regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42518	Councilwoman Pearl Perman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42519	Thank you. Based on the provisions of existing laws, the county is now carrying out social care activities because it is the founder and owner of such institutions. Due to the need for a more rational and modern operation of certain municipal activities in the areas of the county, the integration of the system of municipal infrastructure into regional systems is gradually taking place. This primarily applies to water supply, draining and wastewater treatment systems and municipal waste disposal sites. Through that business, the county would assume the obligations of preparation for construction, supervision and management of municipal infrastructure of importance for it, and similar to that of decentralisation of Croatian waters by taking over the activities of protection against harmful activity by the counties, which would result in a more rational organisation of water management operations, which would... In accordance with the laws which determine the activity of spatial planning, planning and construction of works of construction and urban inspection, the counties should carry out in the first degree for the sake of better payment of phenomena and conditions in space. [[She doesn't understand it because of the bell at the president's table.]] And Article 2 of this article is too high because the counties are defined and unnecessary to condition it by providing conditions for certain tasks, so here I am asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42520	Thank you. Please engage. You can vote. The result? 22 for, 1 abstention 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Sixth, MPs Tomislav Culko and Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42521	Mr. President, the Government accepts this amendment with the provision of Article 6 amending Article 21 reads: "Great cities that have more than 35,000 inhabitants", and I stress, "and cities in the county headquarters in addition to the jobs set out in Article 4 of this Law in their area can carry out jobs from the district."
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42522	Proposers accept this formulation. It becomes an integral part of the Law. 7th Amendment of MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42523	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the previous amendment has practically adopted the content of this amendment relating to cities in the county headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42524	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42525	Yeah, I'll withdraw the amendment because it's been consummated in the amendment before.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42526	Thank you very much. Amendment 7 for consumption withdrawn. 8th Amendment of Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42527	We also think that...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42528	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42529	Dragged yes, for consumption. 9th Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42530	The Government does not accept amendments since the conditions and the transfer procedure, i.e. to the County, are governed by the existing provision of Article 22 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on local and regional, i.e. regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42531	Amendment 9 withdrawn. 10 club representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42532	Mr. President, the Government does not accept for the reason that this bill provides for only the possibility of a representative body's free assessment of whether the heads of the administrative bodies will choose for members of the headship.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42533	Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42534	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I don't think the explanation you gave is valid because you, as a proponent in the proposal, wrote that you respected the first-reading remark and that you installed the provisions in this Act, which decedifiedly prohibits that the heads of the administrative bodies of the units of local and regional, or regional self-government, cannot be elected as members of the headship, and this is not done in the text of the Law. So this is just attached to your clarification of the law. So I think you're wrong about this explanation. I ask the vote because it is about what the Proposer has proposed in the light of the Law. That he put it in there and he didn't. So, I'm doing your job this time. I really don't have any emotions but does your job, what you wrote in the bill. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42535	Thank you. Is that the reason for the bill?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42536	He's standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42537	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42538	The argument does not comply with the text of the Law. I mean, I apologize for that, but it was, but there were different variations in the discussions in the first and second reading, so it remained in the explanation, but in the text itself it was explicitly written that the principals could be members of the headship and that was the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42539	Okay, it's a clear thing. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The amendment reads: "The heads of the administrative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government cannot be elected for the members of the headship." The result? 30 for the amendment, 17 abstentions and 43 against. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 11, also the Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42540	The Government does not accept amendments to the Club of Representatives of the HSU, since the proposed provisions are more precisely governed by the situation relating to the proposal of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor for the exercise of trust in the headship.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42541	Honorable representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42542	I think that the existing, or proposed formulation in the law is very impeccable and unnecessary, given that there is no reason why the mayor or the mayor would propose a vote of confidence for a headship member when based on a political agreement and placed in a qualified political majority. So I don't think there's any reason for that formulation to exist in the law. I stand by our request and demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42543	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 25 for the amendment, 7 abstentions, 52 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42544	Mr President, the Government generally accepts the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities because it is a matter of legal technical harmonisation and harmonisation with the existing text of the Law on Local, Or Regional Self-Government. It would therefore read: "Members of national minorities who, in accordance with the provisions of Article 20, are members of national minorities. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, National No. 155/02, has the right to a proportionate representation in representative bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government, have the right to representation in the executive and administrative bodies of those units." The new paragraph 2 would read: "the headship of units of local and regional self-government shall determine the completion of the administrative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and plan to employ the required number of members of national minorities in order to achieve representation in accordance with the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article". The current paragraph 2 becomes paragraph 3 remains the same. Article 4 would read as follows: "the units of local and regional (regional) self-government referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be obliged to employ new officials, i.e. officials who are admitted to vacant posts, in a way that will ensure respect for the rights of members of national minorities, in accordance with the provisions of Article 4(2). Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities." In the part of the amendment which, in paragraph 5. The government does not accept for the reason that the submission of a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law is governed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. I think we have brought this text into line with the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42545	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42546	Thank you very much. In the amended content which has been adopted, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and becomes an integral part of the Law. 13th Amendment of Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42547	The Government shall not accept the future proposed amendment in substance in conjunction with Article 23, which is amended in paragraph 2 of Article 78. A law which generally refers to a special law governing the exercise of supervision.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42548	Dear Petty Officer Plasimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42549	So my amendment this and the next one are tightly tied, so I think here is a nomotechnically much better arranged issue of supervision of legality. Who is responsible and how this is done, and certainly does not define some specific law, but is defined by the Law on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government in Articles 78, 79 and 80 of the existing Law. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42550	Thank you. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 20 for, 7 abstentions, 62 against. He did not get the required majority, Amendment 14, also of Zvonimir Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42551	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42552	He's retired, slowly. 15. Also representative of Zvonimir Mršić. You're welcome to show yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42553	The government does not accept the future in accordance with Article 136. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia units of local and regional self-government shall be subject to the supervision of the continuity and legality of authorised state bodies, and the suspension of enforcement shall be one of the control mechanisms, while the assessment shall be kept clear in the section of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42554	Proposer, MP Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42555	Deputy Secretary of State I do not dispute the Constitutional Law of the Central State to oversee the legality of the work I do here dispute everyone and especially the individual that can suspend a general act brought by the representative body of the unit of local self-government since application. Therefore, I think that no one can suspend the statutes, the budget, etc., from the application, and in particular not the representative of the state administration's office, but I am offering the possibility that he is authorised to launch a legal procedure before an authorised body because, for example, by suspending the application of the city budget or county budget, it can lead to a crisis of government in a single unit of local self-government, which is decided by an individual, that is one. Secondly, the individual who makes such a decision shall not be held responsible if, in the administrative or constitutional court, it is established that he was wrong, and what will happen with the development of, for example, a municipality where the head of the State Administration's office will say that some budget has been adopted in an illegal manner, suspending the application of that budget. The local self-government unit is going on temporary funding, for 6 months it is proved that the head of the state administration's office was wrong in the meantime they had to be called elections and citizens in that local self-government unit are suffering, so I do not believe that an individual can decide to suspend the application of a certain general act of the representative body but only that he can have the power to initiate such a procedure and request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42556	Thank you. Please engage. We can vote. Score. 22 for, 6 abstentions, 61 against didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of 16 MPs is the same as Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42557	The amendment is partly accepted by replacing the number "60" with the number "90". This is the deadline for harmonising the statutes with the provisions of the Law, the amendment proposed a 100-day period, we propose that it be 90 days for the reason that units of local self-government are required to meet anyway within three months and be 90 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42558	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42559	I fully accept your argument, only I don't understand the difference between 90 and 100.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42560	Amendment accepted in this amended form. 90 days. 17. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42561	He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42562	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 18th representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42563	It is not acceptable since this Law cannot commit itself to the adoption of a new Law. The amendment went into this law to commit the adoption of a new Law on Local Self-Government, and we do not think that this is a way for one law to regulate the obligation to adopt a new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42564	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42565	Well, yes, but we simply passed a law on direct choice, at that point this law is inconclusive, therefore, only this amendment of mine is in line with this law, where it is said when elections are held and when the leaders are elected directly by then must be passed a new law, because simply this law is then inapplicable, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42566	Please engage. We can vote. Score. 26 for, 2 abstentions, 61 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the last amendment of the respected representative, Zvonimir Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42567	The government does not accept the amendment as it estimates that there are no grounds for delaying the application of this Act as proposed in the amendment to apply the law on 1 January 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42568	Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42569	So, Deputy Secretary of State if you don't accept my amendment then you say that this law will not actually apply because it is said to apply 8 days from the publication in the National Journal. It is not applicable because, in the meantime, it is necessary to amend the statutes of the units of local self-government and should amend around 35 laws, so if we don't say both, you can't apply it for eight days because you need to change the budgets of all units of local self-government because it directly affects the budget of the units of local self-government. This makes sense that during this period when all the budgets are simply the units of the local self-government to change the statutes, the government has time to harmonise the laws and we can coordinate it all and start working from 1. 1. In 2006, because we can't maintain public roads for 8 days because we need to clean up... And I'm asking for a vote. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42570	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 29 for, 4 abstentions, 55 against, did not get the required majority. Please. The president of the HDZ Representatives Club, Vice President Luka Bebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42571	I ask that a 15-minute recess be approved for consulting on the adoption of this Act, since this is where a qualified majority should be qualified and so on. And consulting at the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42572	Okay. At the request of the HDZ Club, 15 minutes of rest. We're continuing the session. I'd like the president of the HDZ Club, vice president of Mr. Luka Bebić to explain the reasons for this break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42574	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This law that we hope to pass today is a delayed, delayed vote because there was also an amendment that the government should have been manifested about, and it took quite a long time. I think that here's the Club of Representatives will support this Act and invite everyone else to vote on this Law, so that here we can finally take this Law off the agenda because we have twice postponed the vote on amendments. Here's what I'm proposing is that she be with the Club of Representatives and other clubs and I pray and I want and I ask and I suggest. Here, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42575	Okay. In the name of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42576	Mr. President, given this argument, I'm looking for a five-minute break on behalf of the Club so I can explain my views on the way in which a certain amendment has been rejected that we're losing credibility both the former government and the current government in relation to what we're writing and what we're voting on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42577	Please, and the truth here is that there is a lag behind the text of an argument that does not correspond with the normative solution of the new law. All right. Stanka. ... Please, please, please, please, [[The speakers speak out loud, you can't hear.]] apply the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The apartment lasts at least 10 minutes, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42578	Ten minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42579	Ten minutes off.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42580	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42581	I ask the representative of the Club of Representatives of HSU of Honored Representative Silvan Hrelj to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42582	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I like everyone else in, present in this assembly sometimes don't even read some law. I'm in good faith that we're all doing our job properly and raise my hand. But there is a law that I read from letter to letter and this is one of those laws and exactly the point, the point, where the meaning changes and where the meaning doesn't change. Then it's very difficult for me to get an explanation from a proposer who's totally, totally unworthy in my court. And to give a full explanation of this, I began with a credible interpretation of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia at a session on 28 June 2001 where this issue is interpreted. Where the Government, where the Croatian Parliament said in its previous session: "Looking at the application", just a moment of "the provision of the position, paragraph 1 of Article 31 relating to the provision of Article 2 of this Law", means that representatives, representatives of the representative bodies of the counties, cities and municipalities cannot act professionally. So they don't have the right to pay. The right to pay may be exercised by a member of the representative body if he has been elected mayor, mayor and mayor, or as their deputy, provided that the general act of the representative body has been designated. Without a doubt, members of the Executive Body who are the executive body with the prescribed responsibilities may carry out the duties professionally and then have the right to pay because, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1, Article 5. The law on selecting members of the representative body of units of local and regional, regional self-government cannot be, nor can they be members of the representative body. The head of the administrative body of the county, city and municipality may be a member of the Headship because, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4, Article 53 of this Act, he appoints the heads of directors but a member of the Headship may be in charge of performing certain tasks in the field of local or regional, regional self-government but not as the head of the Board but as a part of the powers and tasks of the Headship. So this is what happens now, what the last coalition government brought. So he's still in effect. It reads here in the Bill's proposal in Article 14. "The following paragraph 1 is added: "The heads of the administrative bodies of local and regional self-government may be elected as members of the Headship." The reasons set out in Chapter 4 reads: "Proposals and opinions given on the proposal of the law and not accepted by reason." It reads: "This is, for example, in accordance with the comments made and suggestions made by the representatives, a solution under which all units of local self-government have the right to set up executive bodies or headship regardless of the number of inhabitants of the same units." And it is equally accepted that the head should not be a member of the Headship as provided for by the current Law on local and regional self-government. So these are the opposite of a proposal and an explanation. Likewise, practice is contrary. The ruling majority here in Zagreb is asking that this does not work or that the president cannot be a member of the Headship, and here they argue that it is precisely such a law that it can be passed. For a principled reason, we cannot accept a law in which the head votes on the report on his work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42583	What? Paul Maticic, Deputy Secretary of State. Please give me a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42584	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd just like to say that in the normative part of the text, this norm is explicitly written. In the light of the articles, it is also explicitly written. The part relating to the argument reads in Article 14 below: "Article 2 provides for the possibility that the heads of the administrative bodies of the municipalities, the city and the county should be appointed as members of the Headship." I am talking about an explanation. I agree with the remarks and we accept both criticisms and remarks that, in chapter 6, in which proposals and opinions were discussed, which were given on the Bill's proposal, and which were not accepted by reason that this remark was ill-written. So in these two, it means in the text of the law and in the explanation of the article it's written exactly as it's written in the normative part, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42585	Thank you very much. Let's not go any further, gentlemen, please. We can't do this anymore. No, thank you very much. ... The school shows its results and we're going to vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, colleague Kovacevic without Mr President, do you need it? [[Intruder: We from the HSP Club are looking for a break because now new facts have been received.]] I'll grant you a break, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42586	Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, I'm looking for a break, a break of 11 minutes means more than 10 minutes to determine exactly how we're going to stand up to this. Because this more, this is unserious from the government to the Parliament and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42587	My colleague Kovačević, I will give you my clear approval for the break. But it is clear to all of us now that, in the section "The apparitions and opinions" that were given on the draft law have not been accepted. Overwritten wrongly, and does not correspond to a normative solution, that they are...... Oh, please! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A little less temperament. It says, it states that the comments were accepted that the head should not be a member of the Headship, and in the final proposal of the Law, it states that it can be. So there is this discrepancy between the arguments in this section and, in the light of the proposal for this article, it is said that it can be. And that's how it's done. I'll give you a break, all right. Ten minutes off. We're moving on with the session. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42589	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We've been looking for a break for one fact that's very important, and that's to mix politics and profession again. We have agreed on state administration, that we must create, establish a state administration that will be independent of politics and that will professionally and professionally do its jobs and tasks. That's what we said when it comes to changing authorities to automatically clean up, that it must separate what duties are political, which are professional and professional. And now we're back two steps back again, and we're saying that for legal gain and the European Union and everything else, and now we're in a situation where from the first draft of the law to the final proposal, we're all changing new amendments again, new amendments. And we are coming into a situation that we are essentially at the end of why, what we are voting for and what we are going to vote today. So it's inadmissible. I can't accept the explanation that it's a mistake, tipfeller. So let the government learn to do their job. Let them read the one who writes the explanation to anyone who writes the text that it's the same text. It's not a problem for us, but unfortunately it is. It should be a problem for the government to form a service, to have these services know what they're doing and to know what we're looking for here, and not to rush it all over our knees every time, let's vote, let's vote. Therefore, we must also introduce order into our work to justify trust and not again produce negative legal effects, bring citizens back in a position not to know what has been done and how it will apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42590	Ladies and gentlemen, after all these explanations, we are going to vote on the final proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. I repeat for the adoption of this law requires most of the votes of all MPs, at least 77 votes in favour. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, Well, gentlemen, do you need special invitations and requests for some to come in time for a vote? Please vote. The result? 78 votes for, 6 abstentions and 5 against, and with that majority, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government in the text was passed, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. We have another proposal for a conclusion, the SDP Representatives Club, which reads, it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a proposal for the Youth Council within 30 days to the Croatian Parliament. Please show the Government's representative the proposal for a conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42592	Mr. President, gentlemen and Madam Representatives. This 30-day deadline is too short for the government to propose a Youth Council Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42593	I haven't heard anything since the story. Would you please repeat loud and loudly and clearly that this is all about? You are, that you will explain, yes. I didn't hear anything, you understand, so talk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42594	I'm saying that the deadline for passing this law is, above all, too short a 30-day deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42595	So what? Your deadline's too short. Any suggestions?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42596	Well, the government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42597	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42598	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Secretary of State. We find this argument unacceptable. A team more if we know that the draft law is in line with all NGOs of young people prepared during July and August 2003 and in response to the parliamentary question both my personal and my colleagues from the HNS, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity said in December 2004 that the Law would be delivered within 60 days. Therefore, the Law exists and is prepared. Given the debate that was held here during the bill, I would ask MPs and MPs to vote on this conclusion, given that it was expressed in the debate agreement that...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42599	The government is too short for 30 days. Are you going to risk being offered a conclusion with a longer term or voting with this deadline? Think about it. ... Oh, come on, gentlemen. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42600	Dear Mr. President, it is in our interest that the Government is of course proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of this Act and, if the Government is eligible for a 60-day period or if it should say which time-limit is acceptable, it would be acceptable for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42601	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42602	Mr. President, I don't think I have a mandate to say, holder, expert holder of this bill should be the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, right? I only know what I said here that in the debate about that conclusion it was said that in that time the government could not propose the law. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-21-0.u42603	Okay, you don't have a mandate. Are you staying at 30 days or are you proposing another deadline? 60 days. [[Intruder: 60]] What? Therefore, the proposal is for the Parliament to task the Government to submit a proposal to the Youth Council within 60 days. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? 36 for, 20 abstentions, 33 against. Unfortunately, but regardless of the conclusion, if it was announced by the Deputy Prime Minister, then draft the Law on Send it to the Parliament.
