ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31939	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Nice to meet you. Good morning. And here's a few words about this document that's in front of you today, which has passed the procedure that every document must go through, so a debate on committees. And for this reason, immediately at the very beginning, before any explanation, I will say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that this National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the Republic of Croatia, which today is before you, be actually the first reading of this document. So we suggest that it goes into two readings so that we can accept all the useful proposals that have been tabled in the debate on committees that are likely to be presented today during the debate in this assembly. And another thing I want to announce. It is also the basis of the discussion in committees that the Government is obliged to draw up and prepare an operational plan for the implementation of this document by 1 May of this year. I believe that, in line with these new government proposals, this debate can be truly and beneficial and tolerated because I believe that everything that we are about to say today to the Government and you respected MPs, respected MPs, is in the common goal of a society of tolerance, dialogue, mutual respect, mutual respect, respect for one another, and respect for, above all, human rights for a society in which we will protect all together the weakest and those who are the most vulnerable. I don't think I have to particularly highlight the values of the Croatian Constitution, but I will only mention that the highest values of the Croatian constitutional order are, of course, the example of all modern European and world legislation, certainly freedom, equality, national equality, gender equality, peacemaking, social justice, always often. I am talking about how Croatia is what we want the state of social justice, the social state, respect for human rights, the inviolability of ownership, the achievement of nature and human environment, how the rule of law and the democratic multilateral system. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia regulates the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and guarantees their achievement independently of race and color of the skin, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social position or other characteristics. And now a few words, ladies and gentlemen, on documents, so on the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the Republic of Croatia from 2004 to 2008. The governments of the United Nations member states, together with NGOs and members of the international organisation, have now organised a far-reaching human rights conference in Vienna in 1993, which as the first conference on human rights was an important event in the history of the international community and its efforts to protect and promote human rights. The Vienna Declaration, which was then adopted by the plan of action adopted at the Vienna Conference, proposed basic guidelines for the implementation and protection of human rights and the protection of the rights of every human being worldwide. The recommendations from this conference, therefore, which took place in 1993, set out activities for the member states of the United Nations with the recommendation of course to adopt national programmes for the protection and promotion of human rights. And here we are now approaching this goal with this document. Regardless of whether the states will adopt a national programme for the protection and promotion of human rights, the Vienna Declaration clearly shows that countries are obliged to improve human rights and I quote from the declaration "the duty of the state depends on their policy, economy and culture to protect and promote all human rights and fundamental freedoms". So far, only a few countries have adopted such programmes, and I believe that we can be proud that if we bring ourselves after the second reading, as I have suggested, perhaps for those representatives who haven't been from the very beginning, so once again the government proposes that this document goes into two readings. We will be able to truly be proud to have one framework document indicating everything, or all of the most important areas in which we must be very clear and precise and promote and also protect human rights because it is something that we have committed ourselves to, which is in our interest and which, of course, we do nothing or anyone else. I would just like to remind you that, following the 1993 Vienna Declaration and Action Plan, the Human Rights Committee established a working group for the creation of the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in 2002, with the government's Human Rights Office co-ordinator in the business. The national programme covers these areas of activity: local level, national level and, of course, international and regional level. The Croatian Government wants to protect, promote and improve human rights in the Republic of Croatia, especially those areas of human rights that it holds to require priority to address existing problems. Then raise the level of awareness of each individual about the importance of human rights knowledge and exercise, improve cooperation in the system of the bodies of the Republic of Croatia for the protection and promotion of human rights, systematic education and human rights education and, of course, create even better conditions for the rapid development of civil society. The coordination of the development of a national programme like I said was the trust of the Human Rights Office. It is a demanding project and, of course, all representatives of all state administration bodies were involved in this project, as all resolutions have been said, to ensure the full processing of individual areas of human rights and to consider all available data and quality, quality predicting future measures. The work included representatives of trade unions, employers, universities, NGOs, of course, especially associations of non-national minorities, religious communities and the like, but above all NGOs or organisations dealing with the protection and promotion of human rights. In drawing up this programme, the Working Group was also managed by, among others, the UN manual on the creation of a national programme for the protection of human rights, the recommendations of the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the recommendations for which the annual reports on the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia were made. The annual reports on the work of the Ombudsman were also used, the annual reports on the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia published by individual NGOs, the observations and recommendations of the competent committees of international institutions, the experiences of the holder of the production of the Swedish and Norwegian national programme for the protection and promotion of human rights, the opinion of the European Commission on the request of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union and the European Parliament, and of course, I would particularly like to highlight this by the Government of the Republic of Croatia during the term of office until 2007. I do not have to mention, of course, that there are organised and numerous round tables, debates whose results or conclusions are, of course, incorporated into this document that is before you. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, it is 17 priority areas of protection and the promotion of human rights that are promoted specifically by this document through a national programme. These 17 priority groups are national minorities then the rights of active participants and victims of the Homeland War. I would like to announce that today, among other things, the national programme of psychosocial and health assistance will be presented to participants and victims of the Homeland War. Then the area of rights of prisoners and missing persons in the Republic of Croatia. I think it's an area where we especially need to be sensitive because the fundamental human right of all persons who are still on the list of prisoners and missing persons among whom, of course, defenders and civilians are fundamentally human rights is to be found to be, to be exhumed, to be identified, to be properly buried and, of course, the fundamental human right for their families is to know where they were found, how they were found, to be buried, and to have a place where they could light a candle. Otherwise, with yesterday's identifications in Croatia, we have 1168 people on the list. Then one of the areas in which we want to focus in particular is to accelerate the return and return of assets or the return of assets. Then also a special family protection where I would like to especially highlight women's protection, especially women on the labour market, since we are concerned about the fact that almost 60% of the unemployed are women. In this sense, it should be respected and done all to respect the conclusions of the Economic and Social Council of last year, where we have made it very clear that employers are doing everything possible to improve the infrastructure that monitors the employed woman, however, so that no violation of both the Constitution and the law on the employment of women is allowed where women are very often discriminated and received at work, but very often when they are released during pregnancy or during maternity leave. The specific area to which this programme warns is the protection of children and young people, i.e. the promotion of the rights of children and young people. I would like to remind you ladies and gentlemen that last year the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted several documents, including a programme to prevent or protect children from violence or mutual violence, but also a special protocol that makes it very clear what in cases where children are exposed to violence, who has to work in Croatia? Then a special area, a priority area in protecting and promoting human rights, is the protection of elderly people. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia launched special protection and care projects last year for older ones, especially those who were weak and left behind. They're living-room programs for older people but also help in the house. So far, we've covered these programs, i.e. we're going to 12 counties. These are programs that try to go right towards man. So to the one who is alone, who I repeat very often abandoned and from the nearest and we intend to capture all the counties in this year, if at all possible, and this is a system that shows very good results. Then the special area in protecting and promoting human rights is persons with disabilities. Here I am announcing that we will probably have a Law on the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities who will go to the government, but also in the parliamentary procedure, and we will also have a lawyer for gender equality, or a lawyer for children, as well as a lawyer for persons with disabilities. The area I would also like to warn about in the national programme is gender equality and equal opportunities, equal opportunities for men and women from participation in political life to everyday life. Of course, taking up on the fact that when it comes to political life, women are not democratic decorations, that women are not only spoken of before the elections but that they are truly given the opportunity and opportunity to be where the real power is, where the decision is made but certainly where the money is. The area is then taken care of by particularly sensitive groups of citizens. Protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders, drug addicts and HIV infected persons, or AIDS. You ladies and gentlemen have been discussing these days reports that are also related to the implementation of a programme of protection against, protecting young people from intoxicating drugs, or evil that threatens them, and certainly this area that must take a special place in this programme because more than 18 and a half thousand registered addicts, now with the fact that this figure is being multiplied as experts say from 3 and 5, respectively, is alarming for Croatia. Discontinuation of racial and other discrimination is also one of the 17 priority areas in this programme – It is fortunately still a phenomenon that is not alarming and that cannot relate to everyday life in the Republic of Croatia. However, reports suggest that the number of human trafficking victims in the past year has increased and that this is the area in which we have to concentrate and during the period ahead. The suppression of corruption, of course, and how a priority area, because I have stressed that the government has proposed this programme to 17 priority areas which, of course, cannot be classified as one, but each of these areas could be the same first if, as we say, this area of corruption is 13th but also how important first. Of course, religious rights and freedoms, freedom of the media, the right to a healthy life and the environment and clearly as one of the most important priority areas of protection and promotion of human rights is the right to work. Only man has a chance to live with dignity and dignity from his work can feel protected and can truly speak about the protection of his human rights, at the level at which it should be in a country that wants to be a member of the European Union. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that the government is proposing that the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the Republic of Croatia go through two readings from 2005 to 2008. That Mr. President, this document that is in front of the MPs today is treated as the first reading of the National Programme. With the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we will repeat the operational plan once again and propose until 1 May of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31940	Thank you very much. The committee's rapporteurs. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the respected representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31941	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of this House discussed this topic at the 16th session held on 2 February 2005. As a parent body, in accordance with Article 71. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. All the members of the Committee assessed the extremely significant adoption of a document that would regulate the whole system of measures to protect and promote human rights in the Republic of Croatia. In this context, the proposal is supported to adopt a national programme for the protection and promotion of human rights for the medium term since 2005. In 2008. The debate, however, stressed that the adoption of that national programme should certainly take into account the fact that human rights under the legislation of the Republic of Croatia are mostly already regulated. Therefore, the National Programme whose adoption is proposed also requires a mother's focus on implementation, i.e. that it must be a document that would define the concrete measures to be taken to protect and promote human rights governed by the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. It has been pointed out that the applicant has made a great effort in preparing the proposed document, and has made a significant contribution to the numerous bodies of the institution, both the government and the non-governmental sectors. As well as that the proposed document is extremely educational, it is an important and positive feature. However, it has been noted that the proposed national programme has several significant shortcomings that call into question its feasibility. First of all, it is not defined as a binding act, there is no analysis of the existing situation and identification of specific problems to be addressed in the process of achieving this programme. There are no specific tasks and measures defined to achieve the proposed objectives and there are no defined holders for tasks to achieve the objectives set. Finally, there are no defined deadlines in which individual objectives and tasks are planned to be achieved. And there is no defined resources and resources needed to achieve the objectives set and their sources. The proposed national programme referred to in point 6.3 of the proposed national programme shall state that within 6 months of the adoption of the programme, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will draw up an operational plan for the implementation of the national programme to develop the objectives to regulate the measures, i.e. to establish measures and time limits and means to implement them. The opinion is expressed that these elements should contain the programme itself, namely that without it, the programme represents a list of objectives and desires that are not clear how realistic it is to be achieved. Although it was found in the same point of the proposal for a programme that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the national programme last year, it was stressed that it is not possible to effectively monitor the implementation of a programme in which it is not defined who is responsible for the implementation of its specific objectives. Parts. That is to say, who are the bearers of the activities within which each target is planned should also be realised with what means. It is a government document which, as discussed in the debate, the Parliament as a body that adopts the programme does not have any influence and is actually dependent on the achievement of the programme itself. It's about an operational plan, of course. The great lack of the proposed national programme, with of course positive features, is that it does not contain an assessment of the situation for each area of human rights covered by it. There is no analysis of the application of existing laws and other acts to which individual human rights are regulated, nor have they precisely defined the problems to be addressed. On the basis of which the measures to be taken should be defined and possible changes to the laws and other provisions of the adoption of implementing acts for certain areas or other necessary measures should be taken to address the identified problems. The programme must also identify who is responsible for proposing and taking certain measures which are their holder of the deadline within which certain commitments under the programme will be realised and the funds and their resources needed to achieve the objectives set by the programme. You will see that later in the second program that we will have after this point that these things are just as defined as what should be viewed for all future programs. It is a consumer protection programme. Without this, as the question is said, the purpose of the adoption is to question the purpose of the adoption of such a document. The debate also noted that some important and current issues in the field of human rights are not included in the programme, such as Corrections to be made in electoral legislation, then open issues related to voter lists that occur in each election and so on. It is also pointed to a number of terminology inaccuracies and inaccuracies that the applicant should correct when adopting the programme in the Assembly. But the promoter has already accepted that, so then I'll just make them know that the problem has already been solved. So, for example. The Committees of the Croatian Parliament shall be defined as professional bodies in the proposal of the National Programme instead of working bodies and shall include in their section issues which are not defined by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. It is said that a bilateral agreement on the protection of the Croatian minority with the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro is in preparation, and it is an interstate agreement already signed and only needs to be ratified. The term Croats are used as a national minority in neighbouring countries and emigration although indigenous Croatian national minorities live not only in neighbouring countries but also in other European countries, so that term should be replaced by the term in Parliament's Rules of Procedure and that is Croats as a national minority in European countries or Croats as a national minority in European countries and emigration. In point 5.3 on page 24, targets under 1 should include all persons missing during the Homeland War, so not only persons missing until 95 but missing during the 95th year. In point 6.8 of page 46, it is stated that in part of the State Judicial Council the appointment of state lawyers and their deputies, although these appointments are no longer part of the body because the law has changed. Given the fundamental lack of the proposed document, I repeat with the positive sides most educational, the position of most committee members is that the proposed text of the National Programme should be thoroughly completed. Therefore, in the vote held after the debate was concluded, most committee members did not accept that the proposal of the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the Republic of Croatia was adopted in the proposed text. For the adoption of the National Programme in the proposed text, there were three members of the Committee, seven members were against, and one was abstention. It is good, therefore, that these programs go into two readings, and we expect that all the comments of this committee, which, of course, in the spirit of their function as a working body, remain available and in the course of the amendments to this document, I repeat, in the course of the amendments to this document that we expect them to be, to be essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31942	The Committee on the Political System, chairman of the committee, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31943	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 26th session held on 10 February 2005 discussed the proposal for a national programme for the protection and promotion of human rights in the Republic of Croatia from 2005 to 2008. In the debate, the Committee found that the National Programme proposal is based on constitutional provisions and the 1993 Vienna Declaration, which recommended that the United Nations Member States approach the development of national protection and human rights programmes. In the debate, the Committee supported the adoption of the said National Programme, holding that more effective cooperation is needed for all bodies working to ensure the protection and promotion of human rights. In this connection, the Committee considers that the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights is a fundamental document, and that, following a comprehensive analysis of the situation in this area, operational plans for the operational implementation of this programme for a given year, setting out the measures, deadlines, holders and the necessary financial resources. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed by 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the Republic of Croatia from 2005 to 2008, as proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31944	Thank you. The Committee on Gender Equality. The Committee on European Integration. I'm opening a debate. HSLS's Club of Representatives DC, the respected deputy president, Đurđa Adlesic. She's gone, none of the club. ... No, it's written there and SDP's Club of Representatives is a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31945	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31946	Comrade Radin, you forgot your report on the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31947	Can I go? Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a national programme for the protection and promotion of human rights in Croatia for the period from 2005 to 2008 which the SDP Club, in this form and content, cannot accept or support. Of course, we at the SDP Club also support the need and support the intention of developing a comprehensive national programme for the protection and promotion of human rights. However, unlike the proposaler's programme, we believe that this business should be approached in a way that results in synthesis of the necessary measures, means and methods of action aimed at creating conditions for the full implementation of human rights and freedoms in the Republic of Croatia. Without that kind of access, we get what's in front of us, which is what this material is right now. A list of beautiful desires and goals that do not show who will achieve them when and with what means. The Republic of Croatia and its constitutional provisions and laws have a regulated area of protection of human rights. It has therefore been expected that today, given that this National Programme has long been being prepared as a first comprehensive analysis and an assessment of the human rights situation, in the area of protection and promotion of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, which would then mean that it should, among other things, indicate whether there are problems in the application of existing legislation, if any, whether there is a need to change and in which direction some existing regulations already exist. Or perhaps there are different ways of solving the identified problems that he certainly and of course has. Instead, we found in the material between the other and these two sentences, quote. The Government of the Republic of Croatia applies a comprehensive universal approach to the understanding and exercise of human rights and encourages them in all segments of society. This approach leaves no area of human rights and freedoms neglected, but also in this process includes matters of duty and responsibilities of each individual from all segments of society, a final quote. With great effort, I suppose these two sentences should actually reflect the current situation in the field of protection and promotion of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. The government proposes 17 priority areas of human rights protection. However, neither of these areas in this material has a brief analysis or assessment of the current situation except for the possible indication of certain existing legal rules and strategies that have been adopted during the last year or before or perhaps even before. However, and how these established strategies are implemented from this material, it is not clear. In this regard, it should be pointed out, which we find inadmissible in the SDP Club that there are some areas dedicated to embarrassingly little space. And let's not say that some of the groups are completely neglected or silenced. When we talk about a shameful little space then please take a look at an extremely significant area. From priority areas of protection of human rights, which is called the right to work. It is processed in this material and shown in full two sentences. And of course we're asking what 57% of the working-age population would say about this and the current unemployed population who are the right, the right fundamental human right, the right to work in one way or another to lose years ago or recently or can't achieve it at all. Or what men and women would say about this right to work, let's say, over 40 years old, about 45 years in labor and too old to be of the taste of employers and too young to make a pension. At this one of the most significant but painful issues at this time for the Republic of Croatia, the government has dryly cited two objectives, reducing poverty and social exclusion, reducing unemployment. How in which way, in which period, what are government projections, there is not a word in this material. Furthermore, why some of the groups in this material have been forgotten. For example, same-sex communities. Don't we have a law on same-sex communities? Isn't the ban on discrimination against sexual orientation also one of the areas we know in the Republic of Croatia. And then we would say a bit of a funny thing to do, even though this programme highlights the importance of education and education on human rights from individual ministries, people with very questionable views about people of different sexual orientations are placed on the heads of certain committees. Or while the programme, the national programme stresss the importance of civil scene and the development of civil society and its extremely important role in protecting and promoting human rights in the Republic of Croatia at the same time the Civil Society Development Foundation established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia denies the right to any enquiries or complaints about the procedure of granting money imagine from the state budget. Or which is why, we're asking the question, somewhere in the spring last year, VAT was re-introduced on a donation, and that's precisely for those associations dealing with the protection and promotion of human rights. When you look at this material, you can ask a series of questions and, among other things, you can ask yourself. may be asked why, when it comes to the Ombudsman's institute, only the need for legal strengthening of the Ombudsman's institute, and let's say it does not stress the need and importance of the Ombudsman for gender equality or the Ombudsman for children or, as the Deputy Prime Minister pointed out in her opening statement, we will probably have an advocate for issues of persons with disabilities in the process and material, or a proposal that we also have a lawyer for immigration, so that all of these institutions should not, in the same way, be legally empowered. Furthermore, in the list of individual ongoing projects, when listing the individual strategies that have been adopted, I repeat once again we do not have an analysis of what and how these strategies are achieved and whether they are realized. So, among other things, I will mention a strategy that concerns improving the living conditions of people with disabilities. As far as I'm aware, this strategy was adopted in 2003. An operational plan for the implementation of this strategy has also been prepared somewhere. As far as I know, this operational plan has never seen the light of day, so I wonder how and how such a strategy is achieved, and that is where we come into the role and importance of having operational plans. Furthermore, when speaking in one area about the media, we absolutely find it insufficient that the media stands out as a significant subject in raising public awareness of the need to protect and promote human rights and then, to the purpose it writes here, systematically encourages journalists to education for human rights. These are the two sentences we have on the role of the media, and I personally think that almost the media should be put first. And as I've already said, in fact, all of these questions that I've mentioned and opened here wouldn't be assumed that this program has an analysis of the current state of affairs that individual documents that exist are being implemented, whether there are problems in their implementation and why and an operational plan developed that this programme doesn't know at least for the time being. Therefore, all these issues would not be if the operational plan was accompanied by precise arrangements, holders, deadlines, necessary financial resources to achieve them. When we talk about the financial resources needed in the final line of reasoning of this proposal, it is said that no additional financial resources are needed. It can be... the conclusion that basically everything that's already been written here is kind of being implemented, so I guess it's already been planned through the budget for this year, but we don't have it black on white, what is being implemented and how and with what means to say this year. In doing so, it is proposed that the government will draw up operational plans within six months, so it could almost mean that this national programme could practically not apply for this year, because if an operational plan is made within six months of the programme being adopted, that means that there is only a September or October could the month be implemented. What we are looking for and what we are looking for in the SDP Club, and in some ways we support what the Deputy Prime Minister said, and we will support that this proposal today is treated as the first reading, that it goes to the second reading. Until the second reading, however, we ask for an analysis of the overall assessment of the situation in all these areas listed here in the national programme with an operational implementation plan. I must remind my fellow Members and fellow MPs that we did not allow some of the national policies to attend committee meetings, or plenary sessions before the operational plans were set out. For those who were here in the last term, I remind the national policy to promote gender equality for several months has been waiting because the government has not contributed to this national policy an operational plan of action, and this is one material we do not know what it does if there is no analysis of the situation and the proposed operational plan of action. We must also remind and warn all of us, in the name of Cuba, that if this programme is not already under the watchful eye of us from the Assembly, there will be someone else from the European Commission, because in the very proposal for a programme and I believe that you have seen it, in the context of the opinion on the request of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union, as part of the political criteria whose fulfilment is a condition for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, there is a particular emphasis on co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, media freedom, judicial reform, the fight against corruption, organised crime, promotion and protection of minority rights, the fight against of all forms of discrimination, gender equality, the return of refugees and the strengthening of regional co-operation. So if someone in Croatia could already be satisfied with the wish list for entry into Europe, it certainly won't be enough. Such a problem in this form is only one ordinary declaration without any operationalisation, i.e. without an analysis of the current situation in the area of protection of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, and afterwards without the operationalisation that this Parliament will discuss, this material will be somewhat excessive. So we ultimately support this material going into second reading, but on behalf of the SDP club, we ask that, until the second reading, we get an analysis of the situation in the field of protection and promotion of human rights and the operational plan of action.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31948	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vladimir Pleško.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31949	Mr. President, thank you. Mrs. Sobol on behalf of the club here today, in this debate, presented a series of incorrect facts. I will remind you of only one fact, and that is that she practically spoke in her presentation about that the operational plan will not be within six months. But the fact is that at the meeting of the Committee on Gender Equality, with the agreement of the ministry, we have reached the conclusion that the operational plan should be completed by 31 May of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31950	Thanks a lot, buddy. This isn't a correction to an incorrect quote, thank you. That's one explanation, clarification and comment. SDSS representative club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31951	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Recently, the Prime Minister said in a public address, I think it was in Karlovac a few days ago that no one in Croatia can be above the law or outside the law. No matter what merits he has and what role he may play. Mr. President of the Parliament and colleagues and colleagues, this is not, of course, the first time I personally try as a man in Croatian politics, but I hope it is the last time. As I came to the Parliament, I received a message about how a returnee was beaten yesterday because he was visiting his property that someone else was processing. The police will likely find this time too that it is a matter of disturbing public order and peace, and it will end. And the perpetrator who doesn't do it for the first time, of course, will eventually be rebuked or punished. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, are there people who are outside the law and are there people who are above the law? Perhaps we, I'm sure, cannot reach General Gotovina as required by the International Community, but I'm quite certain that those who set themselves above the law in this country and who treat other people as if they were not a matter of law can be reached daily. In this document, this kind of spirit, the policy I cited, quoting the Prime Minister and his statement in this paper, has no words. This is an unsuspecting pile of clues, documents and names from which some names should say, no, we don't belong. My colleague Ivo Josipovic is here among the people you allegedly consulted in drawing up this document, as well as dozens of other people and institutions that you allegedly consulted to create such an incomparable document. People who, if you were really in the right sense of that word, we would then get a document that would reflect what Croatia can do, and Croatia has both its people and its institutions and its laws and international conventions that it has adopted so that it can have a surplus document on the state of human rights and on Croatia's intentions to protect human rights. And like this, I don't know, this would probably make a bad president of some socialist alliance organization or a working people, or I don't know how else. Listing everything and everything in what doesn't belong here. This is not a rule of speech and the text of human rights, even if they come from the government because the government has long been above it and by its dictation and according to its speech. In that sense, I do not believe that this text as some of our colleagues claim can be fixed and completed. It must be rewritten with those who can truly do so without suffering. And which fortunately, as you yourself say here in the list of names and institutions in Croatia is abundant. And those who have made Croatia and made it a daily state of human rights. And you obviously don't know it, it goes past you and in this way what's the Croatian national interest, you don't recognize it. Look, it's among the priorities of the area of protection of human rights, national minorities in the first place. Well, for God's sake, why? Why in the National Programme of the Office of Human Rights in the first place of national minorities when we have the Office of National Minorities? Well, that's his job. The work of the Human Rights Office, as I understand it, is a matter of tolerance, it is a question of non-discrimination, it is a question of labour rights. In your 17th place, the last one means that you have no elemental sensitivity to what most people in Croatia have today, and this is given the fact that hundreds of thousands of people in this country are not able to exercise their right to work. Then at least send them a message that gives us sensitivity and makes assumptions that they have it tomorrow even though they don't have it today. The right of active participants and war guardians, I'm sorry, there's an entire ministry that cares about that. There's a significant part of the state budget, if it needs to be bigger, if it needs a better program, let's go fight for it, but it's a matter of the Ministry. So you can't take over the roles and replace the roles of the ministries and what they have to do. So these two examples show that you don't really understand what this office is about, what its role is. He must show the human rights index in the Republic of Croatia as many colleagues and colleagues have already said here. That index can only be shown if you have an analysis, only if you have open access to facts, only if you create a database. And not the database of documents, principles and catalogues of human rights and everything else, but literally everything else, and of course, with something like that, we can't really do anything about it. You're talking about speeding up the return of assets and the return of assets. Why are you talking about it like that? Well, it's a matter of government policy, the competent ministry. Yours is to determine the question of respect for property, it is yours to determine the state of respect for the elemental right of home, both the returnee and the settler. And to establish such facts. And not to take the role of one who does not belong to you, for which you do not have the strength. And that's the ministry's work. You are not an office to coordinate individual government bodies and individual government ministries. And this turns out that you should do it. You're not going to do that, of course. But it turns out that for the realisation of a national programme like this, you should coordinate almost the entire government. Well, then, then be prime minister. But if you want to be Prime Minister, then speak the language of the Prime Minister. And I've been quoting you with what language the Prime Minister speaks these days. On page 24, as one of the members of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights and Rights of the National Communities has already turned your attention, you are rightly speaking about the question of victims II. The world war of participants of different armies, but you speak inaccurately and leave room for interpretation that is undesirable. What kind of army are you talking about in the Homeland Army for II? World War I, which fought for the Croatian state, sovereignty? About what? Recently, we had something that we were not only not pleased with, but something that our public condemned this equalisation of partisans and Chetniks in Serbia and the Serbian Assembly. And you with this text, I'm afraid, if I'm wrong, correct me, you're opening up the possibility that you're equating some that you can't even. You cannot equate those who were members of the anti-fascist coalition in II. The World War and those who were defeated by the army at the time by the anti-fascist coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31952	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31953	Mr. President, it's quite incorrect that fellow MPs say that this is an unsuspecting pile I don't know what sort of allegations, documents, programs or what. I say it's completely exceeded the human rights promotion program for the next multi-annual period. And if the documents of the United Nations and the European Union have not exceeded a bunch of papers, and based on them is a... programme, then it could be an exact statement, which, of course, is not. So it's just too much of a document that we can fix in some parts, but we can't treat it that way. And secondly, I would say as an incorrect allegation that no one is equating anything anywhere, but in the laws of Croatia, a very clear term is a member of the country's II army. World War I, let a fellow MP read Croatian laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31954	Second correction, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31955	Dear colleague has already corrected, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31956	Dear Representative Ivo Loncar, Third Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31957	Mr. Pupovac was referring to a returnee who confronted someone as saying: I quote "the perpetrator will probably be reprimanded or possibly prosecuted", it is a practice so far. So Mr. Pupovac gives himself the right to prejudge any court ruling and thus offends the judiciary. Well, his fake pathetics and cries that Croatia has been tired of for more than 15 years are really too much. Because he never said a word in this House to a terrorist act that took place in Boro's village or the persecution of Croats in Donji Lapac and Vojnic or, for example, about his lies from the early 1990s when he said that 11 thousand Serbian children were baptized in Croatia. Well, if it's from Pupovci, it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31958	It's not a correction. Don't go through the firm to correct incorrect allegations with controversy. Honourable representative Petar Mlinarić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31959	Mr. President, Pupovac also said that one incident was a returnee, I condemn all incidents, but I ask you to speak up like that, Mr. Representative, about what happened in Vukovar and when those who walk freely in Vukovar and Belgrade will respond, for nearly 3,000 people killed, and then we will publicly condemn all incidents. And as for the return of property, I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31960	Don't do it. Don't do it. Don't do it. Don't do it. Good, because I have to warn the MPs that, on purpose and apparently, through the firm, correcting incorrect allegations are replicating and making statements, don't do that. [[speaks out loud, doesn't understand]] The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club, the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31961	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. So here I would like to point out that we have before us or before us a proposal of the National Programme, so I repeat the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the Republic of Croatia, which the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports but as a document which is the basis for institutional development or for the development of protection and promotion of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. As a national programme, it also contains what is also important to highlight, apart from the very basis for defining the activities of the Republic of Croatia in certain areas of protection of human rights. Therefore, the unequivocal fact is that for the first time, a document that covers the issue of human rights, but which necessarily implies so-called. inter-resorial cooperation and integration of all central authorities of the state administration. The content of the programme itself, i.e. its realization in this respect, depends undoubtedly on the contribution of each individual body. Furthermore, the fact that when we talk about the national programme that we should firstly refer to two documents that represent, in a practical sense, the basis for the adoption of this national programme, so in 1993, the International Conference on Human Rights was held in Vienna, at which two documents were adopted which I would also like to mention here. It is therefore about the Vienna Declaration of Human Rights, but not only about the Declaration as a document, but also about the plan of action which provides basic guidelines, so we are talking about basic guidelines for the implementation and insurance of human rights, that is to say, the protection of the rights of every person around the world, and especially at the national level of each country, where human rights can be most affected. Furthermore, human rights can be defined in a wide variety of ways, we have different approaches to human rights in legal theory, practice. However, they are indeed and are often called natural rights, so the rights that belong to humans simply because they are human beings. They can't be bought, earned or inherited. They are inalienable and no one has the right to another to deprive that right for any reason. Human rights standards determine what governments of individual countries must do for their citizens but also what they must not do to their citizens. So when we say that every person has a human right, we also say that every person has a responsibility to respect human rights, so other people, other people. People have those rights even when their country's laws don't recognise or protect them. The concept of human rights is very interesting to compare or put in a relationship with the concept of responsibility because when we say that a person has human rights at the same time we say that other people have a responsibility, each person has a responsibility to respect the inalienable human dignity of others. In a modern sense, with the basis of the theory of human rights, they can therefore be classified and classified and defined in a variety of ways. We have them in documents like this, of course we have them worked out in the constitutions, almost, not almost, but in all the constitutions as the constitutions of modern democracies. However, it was a very interesting division of human rights in view of the way or chronologically, as it appeared in history and thus entered not only constitutional provisions but also protected by concrete legal regulations in certain countries. So, first or right of the first generation, this is about civil and political rights that are aimed at freedom and include the right to life, freedom and security of individuals, freedom from torture and slavery, political participation, freedom of belief, freedom of opinion, conscience, faith and freedom of association and gathering. Furthermore, second generation rights when we talk about human rights include economic and social governance. These are security-oriented rights, so right to work, right to education, appropriate living standards, food, housing and health care. And thirdly, third generation human rights implies the right to a healthy environment, cultural rights and rights to development. They include the right to live in an environment that is clean and protected from destruction and groups or peoples have the right to cultural, political and economic development. However, however classified human rights are one whole, and they are all as important as part of that whole. It's a familiar opinion, and I'm going to underline it here that if there's one right at stake, there's a threat to all human rights. The above mentioned or what I have said is absolutely necessary and to analyse from the position of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or the provisions of the Constitution which elaborate the concepts or institutes of human rights. The national programme in question not only develops human and citizen rights and freedoms as constitutional categories in a quality way but also represents a basic starting point in order to achieve it in practice, i.e. a basic starting point. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia discusses the provisions on human rights within the framework of the Chapter of the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and further discusses and separates personal and political freedoms and rights from economic, social and cultural rights. It should certainly be noted here that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia reduces the minimum limit of freedom and rights and in principle requires that they can only be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people and to protect the legal order, public morality and health. In this regard, it should be noted that the principle of proportionality is introduced in our Constitution, namely proportionality, because any restriction of freedom or right must be proportionate to the nature of the need for limitation in each case, Article 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Even for a time of war or direct threat to the independence and unity of the Republic of Croatia and major natural disasters, the Constitution limits the scope of certain freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution primarily by a certain procedure because it must decide this home, the Croatian Parliament and the two-thirds majority. Further limitation and with respect to the extent of restrictions that must be appropriate to the nature of the execution and, for the consequence, can never have an inequality of citizens with respect to race, skin color, sex, language, faith and national or social origin. Even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the State, the application of the provisions of the Constitution on the right to life, the prohibition of torture, cruel or humiliating treatment or punishment for the legal determination of criminal acts and penalties and of freedom of mind, conscience and religion cannot be limited. The purpose of the adoption of the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights of the Government clearly directs its efforts to improve the human rights situation in the Republic of Croatia and we also find concrete measures in the programme that will best protect human rights. For the first time, the Republic of Croatia has access to a document like this that covers the area of human rights in an integrated way. In order to achieve the objectives of the national programme, quality international cooperation is also needed, as the content of the programme depends on the contribution of each individual body. But not just them. The relevant components of this national programme consisted of, or represent, the obvious attitudes and other state institutions, universities, trade unions and employers, NGOs, associations of national minorities, religious communities and the like. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is undoubtedly on the point that these entities have played a significant role not only in setting priorities and proposing measures to protect and promote human rights but precisely the activity of these entities represents an unequivocally additional quality of promoting human rights and their protection. Finally, addressing the General Assembly of the United Nations, the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Sanader presented the strategic priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the area of foreign policy. Dr Sanader stressed that Croatia supports the universal ratification of international human rights instruments, stressing that without their effective implementation, support itself will be insufficient. In an effort to promote and protect human rights, Croatia pays special attention to the rights of members of national minorities, the rights of women, children, refugees and disabled persons. It's a finished quote. Accordingly, it should be concluded that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not only in its principle programmes but also in its strategic definitions of human rights issues and their quality of resolution, puts before the public as a reflection of its own credibility and is a permanent programme that monitors the activity of the Government, regardless of which segment of its activities and work it observes or analyzes. The national programme under consideration should absolutely be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31962	Thank you very much. National Minority Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Zdenka Chuhnil and Honored Representative Furio Radin in Part Two.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31963	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal of the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the Republic of Croatia from 2005 to 2008 reflects certainly good initiatives and a set of good wishes to protect and promote human rights. It emphasises the importance of focusing efforts on improving the human rights situation and gives a proposal for goals that can best protect human rights. However, I must agree with all those who have said that there is no analysis of the existing situation, the application or non-application of laws and sublegal acts in certain sensitive areas affecting the state of human rights. For the proposed objectives, it is not defined how they are achieved, who they are, and during what period of time. There is no defined or necessary resources and resources, even more quotes for the implementation of this programme should not be provided for additional resources in the State budget. The operational annual plan shall allow the holders and implementing measures to be defined as well as the means necessary for implementation. At the same time, it is said that by the end of each current year, or by the end of March of the current year, the Government must submit a report on the implementation of this programme, and it is not clear how this Parliament will be able to control its implementation when it is submitted, because I said the operators of the activities or who is responsible for the implementation of certain segments are not known. They have not even detected segments that violate human rights or change the way to avoid it. From the Minority Club, we want to remain at the work of priority areas of human rights which wish to pay special attention over the next four years, from the 17 listed only to the 3rd. National minorities, return of property and the area of the rights of persons with disabilities. The Republic of Croatia has established institutional mechanisms to protect and promote the rights of national minorities. The Government is operated by the Office for National Minorities, the Commission is working to monitor the implementation of the Roma programme. The same is true of an independent body, a Council for National Minorities. Even all the necessary minority laws have been passed. I won't list them here. However, it would be expected to include the above-mentioned institutions in the drafting of this programme and to indicate which parts of the laws mentioned are not implemented, which certainly violates certain rights. Two years have passed since the adoption of a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. The statutes of units of local self-government are not in line with the Constitutional Law although the prescribed deadline has long passed. Elections were held both regularly and additionally for minority self-government. Unfortunately, some of the municipalities and cities have not called even the constituent meetings of the National Minority Council to date, although the government has defined it as a regulation. Part of the Council has not been registered for a year or even two years since the first elections. Whether non-application and non-compliance with this Act violate certain minority rights and I leave human rights to you. The Law on HRT, the Law on Electronic Media, also gives minority rights to minorities the right to information in minority language which is, I have already spoken here in accordance with the European Charter on Minority and Regional Languages. Do you know how many 10% of the national minorities are represented on our Croatian television, which is public television, whose founder is the Republic of Croatia. All 45 minutes a week. What rights have been denied? I'll leave it to others again. We're talking about multiculturalism, the ethnic differences that enrich us. Are we ready to accept a better part of these and such cultures in the spirit of tolerance and tolerance or will we have posters and cures that call for a crusade against minorities. It was a “suppus templari” so I don’t want to talk about it in particular. When it comes to the return of property, I will be held only in that segment of nationalisation '45, '48. Or confiscated apartments. Does anyone analyze the implementation of the Denationalisation Act? How much property has been returned, and we know that the law has been in force since 1996. Are human rights being violated here and what? Special care is given to the protection of persons with disabilities and to their equal inclusion in social life. To this end, a number of regulations have been adopted that seek to regulate and improve the quality of life of persons with special needs and ensure a decent life. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was adopted in 2002. It defines whether and to what extent persons with special needs can be employed on the open market or under special conditions in an institution or a company established for the employment of persons with disabilities in so-called ‘disability’. Protection workshops or work centres. What about the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Will it finally function after 3 years and what a comfort it is to those with special needs if there is only a finding that their rights are priority when the status of such institutions or persons has not been resolved for 10 years. We know that before 1994 there were 40 specialized institutions that employed disabled people. It's three today. Of these, two are on the burden of units of local self-government that can afford such things as Zagreb, such as Split. One is unfortunately due to its location in the municipality without income, so people with disabilities are not only without pay but also health care. What a comfort it is for such persons to find in the programme that the law exists, that professional rehabilitation will be carried out for the purpose of their equal inclusion in the labour market when rehabilitated persons wait for the law to be applied, to work the fund, to start working and get deserved and not to be written off. Without all of this, this proposal remains only a catalog of human rights and institutions that operate in this area. And therefore I must also say that the Club of National Minorities will only be able to support this programme if some of our remarks are private and answers to the questions asked, but certainly only in the first reading. Thank you very much. He'll continue with his colleague Furio.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31964	A respected colleague of the Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31965	Thank you. Thank you very much. In this little time that I have left, I will choose a few topics that I consider to be, as a representative of the Club, that, in particular, they are important in the section of general human rights for which members and representatives of national minorities are very interested in respecting and that they are being respected, and that they are being implemented. My colleague Chuhnell talked about minority rights the most. I'm going to talk about a few human rights that I think are missing in this program, catalog or whatever we want to call it. I'm sure they'll end up with shapes and shapes of the program. The site means that priority areas of human rights protection are missing in our opinion, some, some targets and some priority areas are missing. Preferably, if we know that one of the tasks of human rights policy is politics in the best sense of the word and education for human rights, the sensitization of those who have particular power in their hands. Then we will agree that there must also be a security system in the priority objectives and security services. Not just those services that are called stealth services, but also a general security apparatus. In the past, the same subject was somehow touched a little bit by the media because it was being told to the media today. Because lately we've had opportunities to listen and deal with human rights cases because that's how it was established in our human rights violations papers. We thought that after the Helena Puliz case, we'd have less chance of discussing it in the future, but now it's repeated again, one of the same problems. And in fact, something is repeating that may be established to exceed the powers and may be established as a violation of human rights on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minority is being adopted a performance of 5 journalists. But that shows only one thing that shows that with a security apparatus, the gat if we call human rights must be involved and effective. Because there's a possibility of human rights violations. And when we talk about the security apparatus, I'm talking about, of course, everything that might be quite perhaps quite inappropriately called or inappropriately referred to as repressive means. But not just her, so this problem is priority because it's like that now, and we'll definitely have to deal with that problem and from the human rights point of view, so it would be good to put it in the catalog. I see you're nodding now. I'm very glad we're on some issues. But what is also referred to as administrative and political power from the state to local self-government and the relationship that this administration and this political power have towards individuals must also be meant, institutions must fall within the priorities of human rights protection. Because we have citizens who address institutions and administrative and political powers means government and self-government and state institutions and are simply helpless before that. Since these services and those institutions were created and created to be in the service liberally speaking but should not be commissioned liberally, since people pay taxes to support and finance such institutions because they are in the service of an individual rather than individuals in their service then they must treat individuals by respecting their human rights as they are to humans. Like the word itself says. And it must also be among the priority tasks. As far as the media is concerned, some things have been said, freedom of the media is, of course, fundamental, but I would say one thing about the media towards human rights and religious rights, for example. Freedom not only of the minority as Mrs. Chuhnil said, there must be more openness. So that must be one exact priority. And finally, about the question of the victims of war. I'll start with something that I especially care about. The victims of the war and members of the anti-fascist army in that case, I say, do not have to have their rights only if they are Croatian nationalities. Croatian citizenship. 20,000 Italians were killed by anti-fascists in World War II. Neither Yugoslavia nor Croatia has given them any rights because they did not have Croatian citizenship. That's one piece of the medal. The second part of the medal is that the victims of the war were in my territory in the area of Istria that we call the Ezulas today, so I'm not talking about the army now, I'm talking about the people, the victims of the war, we have to treat them with due respect. Because they too were some kind of victim of war and here they were required, of course, a lot of other things are solved although some not yet, there is one debt which will be seen, must be related to symbolic gestures that are especially if they are kept in mind their age and how important to such people. Thank you very much for letting me talk a little more.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31966	Thank you very much. The HSP Club is a respected representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31967	Dear President Shakespeare, there are trees and stones that have fallen upon yet one young man who is headed by a small state human rights office. So I tried to be interested in what was behind this verbal aggression, and I found a lot of justification for the same Pupovec fellow because, apparently, the young man was aggressive and intolerant on the Human Rights Committee. I'd like to be constructive here and very resourceful. It's very difficult for a small office, I don't want to push these young and smart out of the civil service. So let's try to commend the circumstances that the Ministers have declared this material to be material in the first reading. And you should ask people to listen a little more seriously to what they're talking about. Although there will always be one big problem. And he's tied to two circumstances. The first is the office itself. In the material you will see only mention that there are 600 NGOs in Croatia who are fighting for promotion and protection of human rights. They are both financially and professionally interesting and in every way others in superior often position in relation to the state administration. That's the first problem. Another problem is the specific problems of the transitional human rights violations, and in Croatian case problems related to war. So, purely theoretically, it is not so easy to come up with what is and how human rights should be protected in Croatia. There is one trend to debate human rights in Croatia in some way post modernizes or Americanises. So there's more and more talk about the rights of new border or marginal groups, and there's these partnerships, for example, homosexuals, domestic violence, bulling and mulling. I don't know what, it's all serious problems in modern societies with percapital gross product greater than $25 or $30,000. In Croatia, the problem is that we have a large number of traditional social rights at stake and that radically endangered have 452,000 people with disabilities, we have 330 thousand unemployed, we have a pro-native population of different ethnic signs and war fates, we have defense associations etc., etc. What would I suggest? One introductory chapter should certainly be added, not particularly large on the subject of the assessment of the situation, or how the Croatian people live with short references to the specificities of the phenomenon of human rights endangerment in transitions. Another problem, he's already mentioned this Furio Radin. Some curious person who would go and read this to find out what they're even talking about in Croatia. For example, the entire nation has been engaged for 15 days and is some kind of justifiable or less justified panic, political panic related to the case of Ante Govotina. If you're looking for the name Ante Gotovina in the chapter on co-operation with the Hague tribunal, you won't find it there. I generally believe that panic in this case does not benefit Croatia if Croatia at its highest level tomorrow says that we do not care whether the negotiations start on 17 March or 17 March next year, because the European Union does not have a credible partner in the Western Balkans area and hardly has one in the area of Southeast Europe. And because of that, something a little more serious should be said in that area. In any case, or for example, 17 areas of priority for human rights care in Croatia are defined, if you are looking for a category of Croats in the world, you will not find it, or you will find it in the category of national minorities. It's already a conceptual scandal, not to mention a political scandal. So, I would suggest you add 18 categories, put it in second place because currently another type of collective paranoia and aggression is directed towards a diaspora that is increasingly experienced in the Croatian public in the categories of our early socialization as an enemy emigration. That's where the media problem was then mentioned. I'd say something about that. Yesterday I sent Mr Furia Radin a submission concerning the menace to the human rights of these five journalists. Even President-in-Office of the Parliament was kindly asked with a high degree of tolerance to say something about it before yesterday's session, but I understood his reasons. This is about multiple precedents. The first is related to the role of Ivica Racan, who is pleasantly waiting there with his colleague, because at the time of his government who made a public demonstration of the great political will to break the system of creating files on Croatian intellectuals, trade union workers, scientists and political opponents to determine that practically before the June to late 2003 parliamentary elections, POA did what it was practically doing in the period until, for example, in the context of the famous affair, the famous project "The Shepherd" was tapped, arrested and the files were created by about 450 people among whom I was fourth as a potential assassin of the Holy Father. The problem is therefore, of course, the problem is that this case shows two things, that in the entire human rights threat system of journalists was very detailedly informed of the President of the Republic of Stipe Mesic and that his cultural circle, which I've been talking about a lot in the last year, but people didn't want to simply believe, was connected to a repressive one I would say to the media-mafic-political circle that has been dealing with for the last almost 10 years. Then, then, I will say the shortest that it should not be too much, with this in mind it should certainly be very thoughtful of the institutional new approach to resolving this case because it cannot be expected that our Committee on National Security, which gave the blessing and legitimacy of this business last year, will be able to have credibility in the public and in relation to these specific people. And there's a new problem, and that's the problem. Secondary discrimination i.e. That people whose private lives were entered by military and other intelligence officers and based on these illegal or legal cases, because there were several obvious court consents to that by the Supreme Court. Now it will happen that our colleagues or some other foreigners will re-exploit these materials without the consent of persons whose human rights are at stake. And that's why I'd like this House of the High to be kind of on a case-by-case basis, and in the context of the debate on this material. He'd say anything at all next. So, the HSP Club will support in principle this idea of making one such material fully aware that some type of document like this should be subject to national consensus, not some inter-party overvote. And in that sense, I would suggest to the authors that they might form one Not to the commission, but to one working, consulting working group of different, different values, so if you want political beliefs that, eventually, until the second reading, one possible consensus would be reached in relation to this particular case. [[Intruder: Commission.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31968	Thank you very much. HNS club PGS's respected representative, Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go. I'm just reporting that in 11 and 1 minute, it's time to sign up on this wheel.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31969	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. The National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights is above all comprehensive, very smooth above all principles, so it is more marked by a declarative than by some programming character. The principle but also the greatest lack of this programme is that there are no defined measures and ways to implement it. If he had been more exposed to the public and the debates earlier, he would surely have been enriched with more life-forms. Two stands on the media and the rule of law are insufficient to sensitize the public and receive quality remarks from the daily community. There is no doubt in front of us a very abundant material that provides for a significant number of participants in the protection, monitoring and promotion of human rights in 17 priority areas, which are by the wave of all the authorities of the state, commissioners, coordination, so the participants depend on the state. It would be necessary for this programme, but not only with the programme but also with practical application to give greater importance to civil society organisations dealing with human rights. The influence of these NGOs could be greater because they primarily act preventively. It's to expect their grades to be more objective. With the development of democracy and civil society, especially in the context of the European Union's approximation, the state must accept NGOs as partners and not as opponents. Non-governmental organisations dealing with human rights in large numbers are still funded by foreign donations and the state's funding consists of several percentages in the overall budget. This was also shown by the latest foundation competition in which human rights NGOs went very badly and will continue to demand funds from foreign donors to do important work for the Republic of Croatia in the civil sector. The National Programme should give greater role and meaning to government organisations and the Croatian Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia for the simple reason why certain tasks cannot be done by government institutions, and often the state itself is not organised to do so. NGOs play a specific role in human rights education and can play a major role in the creation and development of civil society, as the following problems remain. One, not knowing all the legal rights of citizens, especially by poorer and extraneous groups of citizens. Material and financial obstacles in the exercise of their rights. Unconnection between the institutions of the state which the institutions are dealing with human rights with NGOs and the public defender. Ignorance of the laws on human rights by civil servants and civil servants in the public sector. In particular, it must be sensitive when it comes to associations dealing with minority issues. In part of the media right to work, freedom of work, the right to carry out work and work in public services. For example, the media recently published a survey by an NGO dealing with human rights, which found that in 17 municipalities with a significant number of minority populations there are no employees of minorities in public administration bodies. In the process of decision-making of national minorities as well as their participation in them, it is certainly most important to mention the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government. Article 3 of the amended and updated law on the selection of representative bodies requires units of local self-government to determine by their statute the number of members of the representative body from the ranks of Croatian national minority representatives in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. It is further stated that the representative body of a unit in which members of national minorities are entitled to an adequate representation within that body is obliged to comply in a timely manner with the provisions laid down in Article 3(1) of that Law in a manner prescribed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities before each regular elections. As is evident from the previous newspaper article, otherwise this article was published in the "Ferlau" of 10.12. last year, these provisions of the law are not yet fully operational so it is necessary to implement additional efforts, primarily with the competent Ministry of Justice and local administrations and self-government, that units of local administrations and self-government start and apply this legislative provision in practice and preferably fully. The role of the National Minorities Council of the Republic of Croatia, which should also have a body in its composition that would serve, or solve the daily problems encountered by national minorities, is primarily to assist national minorities in the advisory form of finding financial resources in order to help in the faster process of achieving minority rights. Of course, as far as legal aid is concerned, they can and must be played by NGOs involved in the protection of human rights. The program can be perfect, but if the measures are not taken, the same will only remain a permanent dead letter on paper. In order to protect human rights and prevent the protection of the same rights of vulnerable groups of citizens, such as victims of family and other violence, refugees, asylum seekers, disabled persons, etc. It is necessary to organise and provide free legal assistance through a network of legal counselling centres that could be financed by the state, which could also be implemented by NGOs, thereby significantly strengthening the civil sector and the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. The provision of free legal assistance as well as the protection and affirmation of human rights primarily rests on the awareness that the provision of free assistance and protection of human rights is necessary in both democratic societies because of the simple fact that no society, no authority or law itself is an automatic guarantee that in the sphere of protection of human and civil rights the situation will be satisfactory. In all these countries, there are poor citizens and endangered and marginalised groups and individuals who would be left without legal assistance and whose human rights would be threatened if there were no organisations providing free legal assistance. The neighbouring Slovenia can serve us as an example. It would also be instructed to establish the role of perhaps a Ombudsman for minority rights who would be independent and independent in his work in respect of the work of the Ombudsman for children or lawyers for gender equality. This would not call into question the action and role of the attorney general. We at the HNS and PGS Club suggest that this programme should only come into second reading together with the operational implementation plan, with specific objectives developed, measures established, obligations holders, deadlines and means to implement them, but would also add criminal measures to those persons and institutions who obstruct this implementation. Your program can be perfect, but if you don't bring in the implementation measures, it'll stay like I said before, just a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31970	Thank you. The HSS Club, the Honorable Representative, Željko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31971	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the honored representatives of the ministry and the office. Let me refer on behalf of the HSS Club to several sentences on this National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the Republic of Croatia for the next period. I am sorry that we were left at the beginning by our minister, and I would say that the HSS club supports her proposal that this national programme can only be understood as a first reading, given that the proposal is visible, and also here in the debate is often said, that this programme could be more called as a catalogue of certain notions about what one of the individual committees or institutions should do, and not as a programme. Since since 93 and Vienna's Declaration, we can say that when basic guidelines for the implementation of human rights insurance and protection of human rights have been adopted throughout the world that the recommendations of certain human rights promotion activities are particularly at national level where countries can most influence them and then it is recommended that national programmes be developed for each country and in this part of the world, it has been many years, and it seems to me that this material has been written that this programme has been working for a long time, it seems to me for two years, I personally expected that after such long work, we will get an excessive document that we might then be able to discuss in more detail, and especially what this national programme provides for 17 areas of protection and promotion of human rights from the rights of national minorities, etc. We expected, at least I personally expected, that after so long we should have an operational plan to protect human rights in which we could see today a special analysis of the situation according to every human right we speak of. In this way, if we had one quality analysis of all these rights that we are talking about, then we could also see and discuss in particular what is the situation in the Republic of Croatia today in these areas of protection and see what is missing in certain parts, and that is why this national programme lacks such an analysis of the situation. I would like to read a quote quoted in a report by the Ombudsman who says: "From her independence, the Republic of Croatia has taken more steps to ensure respect for human rights in the country. Democratic institutions exist and the Constitution contains a detailed list of numerous human rights and fundamental freedoms. There are legal guarantees for minorities and NGOs are active. However, it would be premature to claim that human rights have been fully achieved. There remains significant visions in the country that are still recovering from the effects of war characterized by the characteristics of ethnic tensions and the wider deployment of the population." It's a finished quote. Since this is also visible from this quote, and I also think that we can say that there are a large number of complaints where citizens complain about certain institutions, the slowness of their work. For example, on the slow work of courts, on the return of property, on the inability to enter property, on infringements of property and household rights, etc. What I am particularly interested in as a biologist and a forester, and it is evident that a growing number of those who are complaining about rights for environmental protection that have been injured is already taking on a significant percentage already over 5% where it is visible and that these rights are getting more and more injured in people, and they are not being dealt with in the right way. We've had a lot of objections about this these days, from the pipelines and the rest where certain human rights have been violated. And that is why it is necessary, here, to specify the objectives set out here in this programme as general and they are present otherwise in other strategies to work in detail on all the carriers and times in which they will be spent. Because if we get a program that only generally lists something without who's in charge of spending parts of that program, without what time it's going to have to happen and do it, then it's not enough. And it's not enough to just put out such principled attitudes, but to operate them in the right way. The HSS Club advocates that operational plans that will be an integral part of the National Programme will be adopted by the beginning of next year, at the beginning of next year, and for this year until 1 May of this year. And to elaborate in them the executioners of certain goals that are numbered here. It shall also provide financial resources for the implementation of those programmes. The supervision of the implementation of the National Programme will be ineffective if there are no defined target holders, i.e. those who need to carry out the activities, and the operational programme will be adopted by the Government, as is here in the proposal. In this way, the implementation of the programme will depend on how and how much funding certain institutions will have, and this Parliament will not have a direct control option but only through annual reports. I think that at least for now, given that, if it were proposed by the promoter that this program go into another reading, it would be logical then expect us to get this Operational Program together in a second reading with the state analysis. And for this reason, the HSS Club proposes that our National Programme be complemented by the current state of individual human rights, to supplement the programme with operators to implement the objectives, and we certainly accept the proposals submitted here by the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Human Rights of the National Minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31972	Thank you very much. The HSLS club, the DC has already been reported twice, so first it was Mrs. Adlesic, and now Mr. Piploic. Here you go, HSLS Club, DC.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31973	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us one material that we believe is a good basis for the development of the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in Croatia. Like I say, this is one material, not a document. We have yet to come to the document on the basis of what is offered here in this material, based on this current debate and I suppose another reading, other debates, and as far as I've heard from my colleagues here, all those who can make their contribution to Croatia for the period 2005 to 2008 receive one strategic document indicating basic tasks in protecting and promoting human rights. I would in my brief debate I would look back at these areas, these 17 areas that were offered here. During the debate there were words that this material was actually one catalog of human rights. So it can't be said that it's a catalog of human rights, we don't have these lists of human rights, but it can be said that it's a catalogue of areas where Croatia will invest its forces, energy, potentials to achieve greater, greater protection and promotion of human rights in these areas. I say, there's these 17 areas. The question arises whether these 17 areas have actually been chosen because they are the most endangered human rights in Croatia or because we consider these to be the most important areas where we should engage all our resources in the protection and promotion of human rights. There have already been some suggestions to be completed. I would also like to make one of my proposals to give another area that I consider to be current and where the area comes to, there is a violation of human rights. And that's the right to privacy. In Croatia, privacy is often violated. We now have the freshest example of listening to journalists. It was on TV last night. What does a child, father or mother of one of my fellow journalists have to do with his listening? It enters into life, in the privacy of individuals in the family, etc., etc. So I think it would be wise to put that area in place because it's really threatened. I do not want to elaborate with other examples now, these are many examples, you can see it from the daily press in Croatia. And maybe you should put one more area, that's the right to express your identity. Croatia is an open country, it has been declared, declared an open country, but we are a country with many diversity, cultural, national, political, etc. The country in transition and the issue of identity expression is, in fact, the issue of achieving democracy in Croatia. I'm saying, it's kind of some kind of remark, my thinking about these areas. We never suffered from how much I see in good programs, but the problem was always in the implementation of good programs. If we finally get to a good programme, or strategy, of the national human rights protection programme, and we don't have instruments built to ensure its implementation, then we haven't actually done anything. We propose that in this Operational Programme which should be made after 6 months after the adoption of this National Programme, there are specific details for each of these areas of work, detailed, operational programmes with dynamics, deadlines, personnel and resources. I'm focusing on the frames. In the implementation of this National Programme for the Protection of the Promotion of Human Rights, we should put particular emphasis on human resources and we need to make sure that we achieve within Croatian society and in international frameworks credibility in protecting the promotion of human rights. And to try to prevent all those who have violated in any of these areas from coming to some leading places, from being the bearers and organisers of promoting human rights in Croatia. That's why we're losing our credibility. And even at the end, I'd say two three words. This is where my colleague Sobol mentioned the question. In fact, on page 35, the implementation and evaluation of the National Programme is being discussed and recommendations are being made to the units of local administration and self-government, counties are being called on, cities to partner with state organisations and with civil society, that is to say, civil sector, and that is to say, to propose that counties, cities, municipalities, or the state itself in NGOs, through the promotion and promotion of human rights, i.e. funding of the programmes themselves. Obviously, you who wrote this material that you didn't know or perhaps predicted that we still have restrictive laws in Croatia today, there are laws that restrict implementation. Let's say when it comes to NGOs, NGOs are burdened with VAT, on the donations they receive, and it seems to me that this document will be discussed, at the debate of this Assembly, that colleague Željko Pavlic is proposing this amendment and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value that it really should be taken into account that everything where we are not credible in laws, that we throw out such things and that we show really good will and willingness for the whole society to help promote the protection of human rights, and that the non-governmental civil sector is one of the fundamental pillars of promotion and protection of human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31974	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31975	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I do not support this Proposal for a National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the Republic of Croatia from 2005 to 2008, as it was presented and proposed to this House of Government. I would not like to repeat everything that has been said so far, and in my own words not only on behalf of the SDP Club, but also on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, namely the home working body which does not support this proposal of the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights as proposed. And as Mrs. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister heard, she was no longer in the Parliament. But I am not particularly pointing out this because all the legal assumptions have been fulfilled that the Secretary of State here represents this proposal, as indicated in the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31976	Excuse me, the vice president has gone to open an assembly to protect minority rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31977	However, I am saying this because this same minister, the Deputy Prime Minister when she was a parliamentary representative, was not a debate when the deputy ministers sat neatly at the time, but there was no minister, so there was also the same situation that she did not warn about. So, she's just the one who kept warning about it, she's gone. It's good. But I'm saying, it's nothing. I think this proposal for a national programme is indeed an insult to Parliament. Because I don't know if this text has ever come to Parliament, and it's about a very, very important text, or should it be important and important. He's just locked up. So Parliamentarians teach themselves that they are human rights, etc. and the textbooks are prescribed, so the government did so and did one textbook and what it was obliged to do in primary and secondary human rights education schools would do a lot, but perhaps this example, a copy in that direction, also contributes. It is incomprehensible that the government doesn't even know what's been done... during the coalition government in a legislative sense just in promoting and protecting human rights. So where everything is already regulated, the issue of implementation and implementation and the protection of these human rights, i.e. implementing mechanisms and the effectiveness of these legal solutions, is being raised that legislation will, in general, be amended. Which, what, in what direction? Nothing. Very, very unserious and very, very irresponsible. Well, let's get it straight. There's a mention of humanitarian rights, so that's how it's listed, and then the goal. What's the point? Raise the level of consciousness of each individual about the importance of knowledge and human rights. Because our citizen is not aware of his rights, he is not aware of his rights, but he is in agony about the protection of his rights. He's in a position to ask himself at all, does it make sense to fight for the ideals of justice and justice? Why? The issue is the current policy, how much of its citizens really want to create citizens who will proudly speak, we are citizens, holders of sovereignty of the rights and responsibilities of course. Or we need the subjects. So it's a very important and dominant atmosphere, and I think it's primarily a big role for the government, which he thinks about, but what he's really doing. Because writing it like this doesn't mean anything. When applying international human rights instruments, that's how every right and goal can be listed, but I'm just going to point out a few of them as much as it allows me to time. So here it writes to you to fully comply national legislation with the international instruments of human rights which the Republic of Croatia is a party. Well, wasn't this the moment and time to then look at all the conventions that were ratified and was the adjustment done in that sense? In the vast and vast majority, what is it, how is it being spent? Which isn't, to be listed. Because like this, it just doesn't mean anything. And with this comes the Croatian Parliament. In public administration in the exercise of human rights, I think this is a key issue of human rights protection, more than judicially, the goal is to raise the level of public administration expertise. And what are we doing with this public administration? Where are our professional people? How many great students have a chance to get into public administration? But I guess they're more interesting Coca-Cola and other multinational companies. On the other hand, we boast about the excellence of knowledge, the valorisation of knowledge, the countries of knowledge, the young future. Thus, the government is also tested for what it does and what it does, or what it should do. Civil society organisations, which is extremely important, may be the most important in protecting and promoting human rights, so civil society organisations identify and list NGOs, and then say the goal is to encourage cooperation with NGOs in promoting and protecting human rights at national and local level. And when associations do, they're punished. It's Gong's punishment, they're punishing the babes. Because they talked about human rights violations. And then when, when these NGOs aren't in the service of praise to the government, there's no money for them. Then it doesn't even have to be written. The trade union and employers' association stand, encourage and develop alternative settlement of individual labour disputes through settlement, which is also extremely important. During the coalition government, a law has just been passed that allows alternative dispute resolution. On the way to rest. We have equally brought consensus, the most significant perhaps normative act in the protection of the human rights process in civil law, the Law on litigation. He has an important, extremely important standard, that the state is obliged to recognise all the obvious claims so when an individual comes across the country. How it is implemented and whether it is implemented at all or rejected smoothly and burdens the judiciary again. Here's a concrete example now with these impulses on the phone. We will see exactly how the state as a great owner in that part will manifest itself, whether it recognises the claims or thousands and thousands of cases will go back to courts despite the legal norm and despite the legal obligation. But the media might be the most interesting. The media that are the key to democracy and the protection of human rights on them has been pummeled by the government and says that the goal towards the media is, therefore, not to improve independence but to systematically encourage journalists to education because they are uneducated. Of course, everyone needs education and there is no education that lacks education. However, it is precisely in the definition that the implementation of the legal provisions shows that there is insufficient media interest in the mentioned problem and in the attacks on the media, on their protection and sanctioning that this does not happen anywhere. Human rights is talked about a lot, but again in high school and elementary school, what should be done in concrete terms. Gender equality is also much talked about, however, today laws are passed which amend laws that have been passed during coalition authorities that disrupt gender equality, etc., etc. It would take an hour and a half to list everything that suffers criticism so this national programme, much more than it would take time for it to be read. So, absolutely inappropriate, and here we are now wasting our time discussing this. The Minister should have been here as soon as she heard about the Committee on Gender Equality immediately withdrawing this act to do so, or not to do so, but a completely new methodological approach with concrete objectives, and then it would be one serious job to prove that these issues and thoughts are serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31978	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31979	The first correction of an incorrect quote by an esteemed colleague is the following. She said, quote, that the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights proposal is final. He is not a decisive esteemed colleague, it is a serious document studioically and comprehensively prepared for discussion in this House of Commons. It's really not inconclusive and everything you've analyzed and explained is actually in favor of the fact that it's not locked but prepared studioly. And a second correction to an incorrect quote. You have said, I quote, that the state has, in terms of the amendment to the CAP, so the Law on the litigation procedure has taken over the obligation to recognise the claims. There, and we heard that the state took the obligation to admit the claim, I quote exactly what you said. It's a lie absolutely, you know it very well as a lawyer and I. Therefore, the State did not assume the obligation to recognise the claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31980	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31981	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! I've actually been, for a long, long time, maybe I've never seen a more pointless document in my life. Look, he's so general that his value is zero. That's where it's carefully said, saying on behalf of the clubs, there's no analysis of the situation. And what was meant when it was said that there was no analysis of the condition? So it was thought that here in this document it was not said whether human rights in Croatia are being violated, even if they are being violated, where they are being violated, who is breaking them, and what is most important that the government is thinking of ending it. And that should be written in something called the National Protection and Human Rights Promotion Programme. He is a bureaucratized document that testifies to one bureaucratized approach to this issue. And what's the point of bringing, who needs this anyway? A document like this, I don't think anyone needs it, absolutely no one. This is an unnecessary document, but the government is saying that the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights from 2005 to 2008 that the Government is clearly directing its efforts to improve the human rights situation in the Republic of Croatia and is proposing measures to protect human rights in the best possible way. First of all, it says that the government is clearly directing. First of all, there's nothing clear about it. There's absolutely nothing clear about that. Secondly, no measures are proposed and at least concrete measures are proposed. Counted are the goals, that's the truth. Each chapter sets out goals but they are so general and sometimes incorrect that they insult the intelligence of those to whom they are directed. So when it comes to corruption, in the corruption chapter, it lists the following objectives, it says, raising public awareness of the inadmissibility of corruption. My dear gentlemen, the public awareness of the inacceptability of corruption in Croatia is very high, you do not have to encourage it, but be willing to fight corruption. That would be the task of the national programme. And don't worry about public consciousness at all, don't worry about it, you don't have to encourage it a bit because ask anyone on the street what they think about corruption and you'll hear about it, anyone. Therefore, do not deal with matters for which there is no need at all, but make a plan for how to fight this corruption. I'll talk about corruption a little later. I listened very carefully to the representative of the HDZ Club. He, apart from quoting us the Constitution because he read it the same way in this document because it is introduced in this document by the Constitution as a very useful contribution document as if MPs do not know what it says in the Constitution, so you should teach them about it. A representative of the HDZ Club spoke of the right to a healthy environment as a fundamental human right. Yeah, I agree. It is important to live in a healthy and clean environment but my people, my dear, so is this the area where human rights are most violated in Croatia, so whether it matters. That's the HDZ's position on this. We protect the environment, we do everything, and then we protect human rights to the best possible extent. That's what's important. Look, who breaks human rights the most and the most dangerous human rights in the world? Who's in a position to do that? First the state government executives and then when we talk about it, look what's going on. Well, that's where the Anti-intelligence Agency is investigating the press. This is what she does again, and again after we thought that in 1999 and 2000, it stopped. No, no, they were ahead of the election when they saw what they could do, what the election result might look like then they went to justify themselves a little bit, courting the new prime minister there, so the new prime minister forgot that the same head of the Anti-Intelligence Agency had put together some kind of note a long time ago, so now it needed to make it right. That's what the anti-intelligence agency, the former boss, and then to justify it, it's after the press. At the same time, the anti-intelligence agency does nothing to protect human rights, for example, against organised crime. Who were they investigating? Who was given special measures from the drug mile before the court? Who? I'm looking for one name. Where was he processed? What court? To what punishment? And there we had the other day a report on, about the fight, the fight against drugs where the data was defeated. Defensive data. Extasy costs less than Coke. Drugs are getting more and more endangered. And what did they do? There's certainly not a word about it here. What about the Fate Authority? What about the Fate Authority? Where are human rights protected when dozens of criminal proceedings go out of date? The judge deliberately lets his criminal case go out of date. And thus the one against whom the criminal proceedings are conducted, that nothing, he is free of guilt. And to the judge, nothing. And we all keep our mouths shut about it. And you're writing a national program about it, of course, not a word because it's not a problem. Protection, a healthy environment, that's the problem. What about the victim? What about the victims of these criminal proceedings? What about their human rights? Well, you know, if someone committed a crime, then that crime has its own victim. Well, that victim has some rights, too. What about the public work of the courts? We have a 309th member of the Penal Code that prohibits commenting on the inadmissible verdicts. And now be careful we must not comment on the work of Judge Domic, who has written half of Brač in two private names. You can't comment on that. No, I don't. He has to keep his mouth shut about it because it's been coerced against a judicial agent. Tens of millions of EUR have been registered by the Court's decision, recorded in the private account of a member of the organised crime mileage. No, keep quiet about it. That's the pressure on the judiciary. Judge Lozin. There are people killed in Lori, people killed. So is there a greater threat to human rights than the right to live? Then he examines the key witnesses and makes an acquittal. And we have to keep quiet about it, we have to. Because it's also the pressure on the judiciary. So why don't you write about 309? KZ? Why don't you suggest we cancel it? I wish it could be commented if nothing else. There's not a word about it here. And mostly it's a document, my dear gentlemen, that can't be fixed. It can't be fixed. All those who suggest this goes wrong in another reading. It can't be fixed, it should be thrown into the basket. It's below the level of one prom. You know, it's one of the combinations of something. A little constitution, a little bit of some collected laws that were passed, a little theory from some book, so then we made a document and sent it to the Parliament. It can't be fixed. That doesn't fit his name at all. This is not any proposal for a national protection programme. It's nothing. It should be thrown into the basket, replaced by the whole crew who did it, to the one who was doing this to give some easier jobs, and to choose a new team that would make one serious plan. Which will describe the situation and tell you how to fight it. Including a healthy environment, but first corruption, first corruption, protection of the rights of national minorities spoken of by Pupovac, control of the anti-intelligence agency where human rights are violated then the environment, this all other thing that comes in order and thus come to the Parliament, with this coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31982	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure are not intended to throw into the basket, which is whether or not, and changes are made in some other way. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31983	Although fellow Stazic used the agenda point to talk about everything and everything, and at least about what makes the subject of this, these points of the agenda, it is a proposal, a proposal for a national programme, protection and promotion of human rights, I will correct what little he said about the programme. It is therefore incorrect to say that it is pointless because its meaning is clearly highlighted and consists of protection, promotion and promotion of human rights, the level of consciousness of each individual on the importance of this area, improving cooperation in the Republic of Croatia, establishing a system of education for human rights and creating conditions for the rapid development of civil society. So that's quite a clear point and what he said was that this report should give an analysis of the situation I hold that it's quite incorrect because it would be another document that would be called a report on the state of human rights in the Croatian state that we will also get. So here, I'm correcting only those two allegations from a bunch of what's been said, and it has nothing to do with the agenda point, so I'm not going to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31984	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31985	This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure make it clear what is the correction of the incorrect assumption. In doing so, this was not a correction of an incorrect quote but a classical replica, only that the representative does not have the guts to learn in the replica, so he hides behind the correction of an incorrect quote by correcting nothing. You can replicate. Raise the yellow tile, throw yourself out of danger to respond to that replica, but don't violate the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President of the Parliament, don't let that happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31986	Dear Representative Stazic, I guess a hundred times already all the MPs have heard and warned that article 209 is only talking about the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, you have not listed any of the articles of the Rules of Procedure, any injury to which it would apply. Third, a colleague of Trakostanec was correcting your allegations. She marked them incorrectly, and you referred to an exact business correction of an incorrect allegation under the company's injury to the Rules of Procedure. You know it perfectly well, and I can't skip now so I don't give you a warning. 'Cause you're Hurt the Rules of Procedure multiple times. [[- Insect: Bravo!]] Other correction of the incorrect quotation is a respected, respected representative of Emil Tomljanović. [[I'm proud to accept it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31987	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representative Stazic incorrectly said that the Croatian democratic community's position in the field of protection of human rights is most important in relation to the healthy environment, repeating this, while putting the floor, in a connotation of eviction and a little mockery of the view expressed as the Croatian Democratic Community's position. That's not true. The position of the Croatian Democratic Community presented from this speaker on environmental protection is precisely such that the human rights of the third generation implies the right to a healthy environment, cultural rights and rights to development. These are the human rights of the third generation, and your exposure has only confirmed that you know absolutely nothing about human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31988	Honorable representative, honourable representative Miroslav Korenika. When you enter a lot of drama and then, and a lot of theaters then you come to these positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31989	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I must say that normally, it would ordinarily be normal and common for any program to be done on the basis of any data and analysis of that data. Therefore, they cannot agree with all those who say that these analysis of the human rights situation or data in Croatia is not necessary. I think they're necessary, though. I would like to know on the basis of which the Government is, or, and vice-president of the Government, who has set out on behalf of this Government, on which it has come that the objectives of certain segments are so and so. However, we should know what human rights in Croatia are most frequently violated, and based on such analysis, these goals have also been achieved. But I've got to get in line. When we have objectives on certain items we are very consistent, we are very precise when we say that we should consistently translate European Court of Human Rights rulings in Strasbourg. However, when we talk about justice in the Republic of Croatia, then we do not say that one of the objectives of this national programme should also be consistent with the implementation of judicial judgments and the judgments reached in the Republic of Croatia. We know that one of the, we don't have the data, I can now laminate here that one of the human rights that is more endangered is the speed and efficiency of Croatian courts on one side. We know that we have court proceedings that last for years, even such jobs as enrollment in garneries in Zagreb and some other cities take a long time. And days I'm talking about how a final judgment is carried out in life. From the top to the bigger stuff. That's not even a letter here. I hope that since not living in delusions and illusions that the government will withdraw such a text, but as the Deputy Prime Minister said, it will go into second reading, hopefully until the second reading will be completed. When it comes to state administration or public administration, no one is talking about the problem, which is the silence of the administration, the silence of bureaucracy. Here we have a list of wishes that there might be more public, everything else. However, we are witnesses also know from practice that there is something called the silence of the administration. It seems to me that we should discuss this specifically in public administration goals. Something about the attorney general, we say, is the aim of legally empowering the institution of the attorney general. And we ourselves remember how long it took last year to get the white smoke out of this room and finally pick out the attorney general. However, it is not enough just to legally strengthen the role of the attorney general, and of all the other defenders. We have often discussed this in this high house that it is also necessary to financially strengthen the role of defenders. And everyone else. If, for example, the lawyers do not want to list the days to be too clear or precise, that certain lawyers and their deputies do not have enough financial resources to visit those who should use their services. Because we must be aware that the general state of finances in the Republic of Croatia is not such that those whose human rights are often threatened are simply not able to pilgrimage to Zagreb but should come or should have deputies who can travel and visit and, ultimately, on the ground, be convinced of the way in which certain human rights are threatened. One of the objectives I consider not to be sufficiently precise in spite of the constitutional category, which is one of these objectives is the constitutional right to union organisation. We also know that there has been a lot of public talk that we have even the most common foreign and domestic trade chains that do not allow union organisation in their companies. I think we need to regulate stronger and better and especially punish the legal ones that make it impossible for the union to organise. And perhaps as one of the goals, a commitment to a stronger and more frequent dialogue at local levels between employers and trade unions is often missing. But also as far as this labour legislation is concerned, it seems to me that we should persist and perhaps more education about making I know that social partnership and collective agreement are agreed by the two sides but perhaps more education interested in getting better quality collective agreements than we have now. One of the things that is often said and said is the right to work. It seems to me that about the right to work we all talk a lot, and from a single county to a particular county that right to work is extremely endangered. Perhaps a more consistent and quality indication of the right to work and what the government will do and make it more accessible to all. Because it certainly is not the same right to work in Varazdin County, in the City of Zagreb or, for example, the Personal Senj County where we know that this working structure is far worse than it should be. I think a lot is said about the human rights of national minorities. But it seems to me that in the goals, we all advocate taking care of national minorities and so on. However, often the laws are lagging behind practice and yet we do not have criminal provisions for many of the things listed in this national programme, where we may have in some things and relatively good goals. But we just don't know how it's going to work. As far as real patients are concerned, I think it's a special story. We ourselves must admit that we do not have the same human right to health in Zagreb or in some other environments. Unfortunately, both the state and government, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute does not treat all the county, all the hospitals, I will only talk about decentralised resources. Where, despite the fact that certain counties get a certain amount of money, we have no clear criteria. And for example, Varazdin County per patient gets significantly less money than Dubrovnik County gets, for example, and so on and so on. So I didn't say that, dear colleague. Because I think there are other reasons, we're all aware that money probably doesn't have enough. And that you often go through some kind of relationships and acquaintances, and that may not even have anything to do with political parties. But if you're a member of the HDZ, you're saying it and you're saying it, then you're probably right. I can't say you're wrong about that. So it seems to me, and finally. I think that the second reading should certainly be given to the state of human rights, not in one year but perhaps in a certain cross section, because there has certainly been an improvement in the human rights situation in certain segments in the Republic of Croatia on one side. I think we should have an analysis of this situation because it's absolutely certain that the national programme has to be done based on some analysis. But what is already highlighted in this debate, what is a lack and what I think should go along with the national programme into the procedure and be adopted in this high House. That means we get an operational program. That's what we were talking about. That we have deadlines and carriers to do it. Penal provisions for non-execution, but also what is particularly important and important money that is provided for in the national budget each year to be provided for in the national programme. 'Cause I'm afraid the best-thinking story without money just remains a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31990	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31991	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations that my colleague said about the violation of the right of patients and that the Croatian Health Insurance Office is treating some county and county hospitals unfairly. It's just not true. The Croatian Institute has criteria for the distribution of money. And I'd like to remind you that the system's handiwork was primarily created in 2002 when a former administration just did a harbinger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31992	Dear Representative Drago Prgomet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31993	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. Although this could be expected, today it is a national programme or a proposal for a national programme for the protection and promotion of human rights for the next four years. The good part was a clear speech about the state of human rights, the current state of human rights or the state of human rights over the last 15 years of Croatia's independence, so allow me maybe for two reasons I'll say something more on the subject than the national programme itself, because I don't think at least we sitting here in the Croatian Parliament should forget that we are witnesses today and that is certainly true and cannot be killed by individual violations of human rights. Why am I pointing that out? Let us not forget that 15 years ago we lived in a system where not only could not be consumed but also talked about the human rights they were about, human rights were disabled in terms of political declaration of public speech in which religious, national freedoms were denied, intellectual addiction. It should not be forgotten that we were witnesses during the wartime echotate endangerment of humanitarian rights followed by tens of thousands of exiled, burned-out houses. And it should be fair and not forget that even in the last few years we haven't been able to notice the threat of human rights in terms of the right to private property. Fortunately, all of this is behind us, although we look at all of this, then it still gives us one reason for optimism and faith that the period ahead of us in human rights can be far better than it is now. And clearly this is expected of this government and also of us through legislative authority. On the other hand, I point out that because I think that all of us in the Parliament who were witnesses of those times should, with special sensitivity and feeling, talk about human rights. I'm saying that because, unfortunately, that's what I'm thinking about in the decadent examples of human rights violations being overly politicized, too much to ask for a political profile. I will mention here everyone well-known case of a journalist by the intelligence service, where he was indeed an example of a violation of one person's human rights. Unfortunately, however, it is not possible to take the impression that the good part of the case has received one political unnecessary dimension, one populist approach, and that the very person who was the victim of human rights has finally been forgotten. In the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights there are several highlights from which I will single out this about promoting the work of NGOs, and they are indeed a football dictionary, looking at or calling them assistant judges whose duty is to the main judge, or legislative authority, to suggest to the executive authorities whenever human rights violations occur. And I think that's what associations do for good. Unfortunately, there are also different examples, I cannot forget the example when we passed the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights when one of the NGOs ultimately asked that all its amendments be accepted, if not that in that case all patients would be left at the mercy of the medical staff. Personally, I do not think that it will contribute to the further protection of human rights or the adoption of measures or legal acts that regulate this problem. The media is certainly a very important participant in the exercise of human rights where journalists rarely themselves become victims of human rights abuse, but it should not be forgotten that unfortunately this year, if I am not wronged by the United Nations, we have had an objection to the violation of the privacy of children in the media, which is also one of the examples of human rights abuse. Human rights violations are not limited to continents or certain political systems, social norms or religions. There's hardly a country where one year, there's not a single violation of human rights. The value and strength of the state is reflected among other things and perhaps above all in how capable it is to protect the most incompetent citizen in the sphere of human rights, and vice versa to the degree of trust that a citizen has in that state. And the more powerful and ambitious these two elements will be, the more ideal the situation in this aspect of social life will be much more quality. It would be naive to expect human rights to be violated. What is realistic to expect will be more sensibilities, more feelings of all segments of society for this problem. But indeed, when it comes to human rights, they are also called their real name without additional politics or anything like that. I will say that the proposer has put forth a great deal of effort in preparing the proposed document and that it is certain to make a significant contribution from the numerous bodies of the institution of this government and this authority, and I believe that this one, since it is the first reading that this legal act will be completed until the second reading and will indeed have that function, which is to be enforceable. Therefore, my observation which could be heard and on several occasions from my colleagues, the participants in the debate, is related to the hasty adoption of operational plans from which they would be clearly seen who the project holders are, who will provide financial means for what I have already highlighted to be acceptable or applicable in everyday practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31994	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31995	Here I have a replica. So I agree with that part where a respected colleague speaks and highlights the work of NGOs. I agree, therefore, that they must play an important role in controlling and monitoring how human rights are created. However, on the other hand, we have the fact that this government has, in its Regulation of 20 April 2004, therefore adopted a Decision amending the Value Added Tax Regulation which has deleted non-profit organisations, associations and institutions from the list of legal entities which are the release of VAT payments on goods and services paid or received from foreign donations. So they're damaged to a large extent. Just to remind you that non-profit organisations promoting these values are not only humanitarian or sports character but include promoting human rights, protecting the environment, democracy, the rights of persons with special needs, etc. The government therefore abolished the provision that they were exempt from VAT payments, thus making it difficult for them to act. On the other hand, there is a group of MPs among whom I have also submitted at the 9th month last year of the Bill on Value Added, which would free these associations from VAT payments again. So the law was passed here in the Parliament on 24 September 2004. Until today, he didn't get the government's opinion. On this basis, it could not have been processed either at a committee session or at a plenary session. This is how we read the government's overall policy towards NGOs that we think is not good at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31996	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31997	Dear colleague, Mr. President. I find it very difficult on the basis of one indicator to agree with you that this is about the government's position by requiring or adopting a Regulation to pay VAT and by humanitarian associations. So I cannot really agree that only this one element can say that the government's position is to call it negative to associations or contrary to good intentions or plans, i.e. projects that these associations have in the extreme case, with positions that all are equal before the law and that associations as other social organisation institutions should pay VAT. However, when it comes to associations, I think they still have far more opportunities to work positively towards us as a legislative authority and I think, and I believe that you have had the opportunity to watch a certain day of television show in which, among other things, they spent more time discussing who received the money, the funds and who was in whose presidential election headquarters. I personally don't think it's an association's job, but I totally agree with you that they are a very important segment of society especially in such a sensitive problem or in such a sensitive issue of everyday life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31998	Thank you. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u31999	Thank you very much. I know that the Rules of Procedure do not know how to throw any document into the basket, and then I would advocate that the Government withdraws this document for a simple reason, neither in the first, nor in the second, nor in the third reading of this document, a excess document can be made. I also disagree with those who, given the government's rhetoric, blame the administration or the expert group for such a document. This document was sent to us by the government to be represented. I'm not going to go into whether any member of the government has read it or not I don't know it, but I could now talk about the indifference of this document for three hours, conceptually, contentally, etc. I just think it would be better for all of us to withdraw this document like I said. Because as someone here has said, in this assembly we are in a position as part of a state-run apparatus, a state-run system most often protected by human rights, actually in a position to prescribe how these same human rights will be defended. So we're in a bit of an awkward situation, and in that space, I think we need to find the right solutions. I'll put it this way. I'm not sure we need a document like this. The first part of this document, and I don't even know when you look at it whole, even below the level of some script or manual for some high school student about knowing about human rights. If you try to make a careful analysis of the text, the word that is most often repeated in the goals, which is training. So it looks like some kind of training program for some high school kids. So to train this one for what, to train this one for that one. So let's just say it's mentioned that there is a need to promote and ensure that journalists are trained to promote human rights. I don't know what these mechanisms are, let's say the government doesn't say the Parliament, which we're going to promote and force the press to educate themselves to promote human rights. Let's say when you take it, I'll take something like that. Here, let's say you have the title "People's Rights in the Republic of Croatia" and now you expect behind that title that you will get some sort of a precedent in the Republic of Croatia. But when you start reading it, you can see it's a theoretical debate, but then if it's a theoretical debate, there's no human rights in Croatia. Human rights were in Croatia, were in Hungary, were in Madagascar. And then when you read human rights in Croatia, which are human rights and then in some history, into alimony etc. I think that, after all, the MPs or the vast majority of MPs are this way underrated in this House. The second question is what part of the colleague also said. How much sense does it actually make to list such a wide range of human questions especially in the area of priority and now you just get the situation that at the same level are all these 17 human rights. Is it possible that Croatia with its capacities, intellectual, human resources, material, etc. It goes equally at all levels of human rights. I know that's what we're expected to do, but I think first of all we need to talk about human rights and come up with a human rights program not as mentioned on page one, second page here for the sake of the Vienna Convention, for the United Nations. I don't think the first sentence in this can be the Vienna Convention and the United Nations but must be because of the better quality, safer life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So this, for us to know that we are bringing this for ourselves and our citizens, not because some convention or some international institution prescribes it. So he is to say so in writing what I would say from the sleeves, with this before it is also said that the working group was formed in 2002. I don't know when the task force was supposed to write this material for two or three years. What this material certainly won't provide will not ensure that what is announced here comes from it, some kind of operational plan. I don't know how in this wide area, the spectrum that is listed here, the human rights that should be promoted, protected, which should actually be elaborated in a certain way, how it will be protected, how it will be promoted, who will do it, how much it will cost, etc. I don't know how it's going to be translated into an operational plan. Because actually the overall activity of this House should be focused and every law should actually be focused on promoting human rights and if we stick to that principle then we don't really need to specify all of this. Let's say there I noticed around the priorities it states that among those seventeen priorities is the right to work. And right to work, that's a lot of words, too, put in 17th place. At least give it for visual effect put it first. Because today in Croatia, I mean the right to work, not in Croatia, but beyond, unfortunately, one basic and important human right. It is a human right that affects more than 300 thousand people today in Croatia. I know that this programme cannot be expected to elaborate on how this human right will be achieved, but the whole policy of both the Government and the Croatian Parliament should actually work to promote the economy. There is another space that I have come to be honest about, I expected something more when I read this material and here I see actually for the space of the operational plan if it is already being brought, but based on this I say it will be very difficult to bring, and that is to take some tens of no more things that are current in Croatia today and which significantly determine Croatian reality and try to concentrate on them. I don't know which NGOs also participated in writing this program, because I don't know if all these participants who write there are for a simple reason because I'm not so sure that I'm with someone and I contacted them to support them, that they support this concept. So I suggest that we try to move away from some patterns and obligations that are prescribed by someone else and try according to what we know, and I don't think it would even be a problem if there were five pages of introductions that give an assessment of the level of human rights in Croatia today, because, besides everything else, I think that we are moving forward from day to day as far as human rights are concerned. And now there would be this trend of some kind of growth, it would be absurd to stop or I don't know how to draw attention from that trend with one document that doesn't actually guarantee even the protection of the level achieved, but not their further promotion. So I won't be able to raise my hand for this proposal even in the first reading if there is such a proposal, and I appeal to the applicants to withdraw this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32000	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32001	I agree with all my predecessors who said this document should be withdrawn. I understand why the Deputy Prime Minister is not here today. She is a person who has decided to promote herself with only positive projects in her mandate. This is absolutely one project that is hard to defend, which therefore has no argument that you can defend this papacy that we have today received under the name of the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights for 2005 to 2008. I think we are all together, primarily our citizens tired of documents, strategies, programs, big words written in many of the documents this House has brought. However, each of the citizens when they begin to seek their fundamental human rights in our institutions each time they hit their heads very hard against the wall and see that it is not so easy to exercise some fundamental rights in this country. In recent times, newspapers have often been written about how police abuse our citizens. We sent Minister Mlinarić a letter a month and a half ago in which, for example, we warned him of increased police violence. Unfortunately, the minister returned to us in a letter and told us that at the very least we were speaking inaccuracy and talking nonsense. I'm asking you after this program that we're all talking about today, about human rights, which are human rights protected in the Republic of Croatia when you have the title "police officers brutally beat him and trampled him because they replaced him with the real guilt". So, you have a little problem, and that's that you just happen to look like some kind of criminal. So then he says "a cop threatens a woman with death" no less than a cop who should protect women from domestic violence. Second, "a cop tied a man in his head banging on his car." The police who are supposed to protect us say, "Here's how she beats people's heads in the car." Not a full month and a half ago, members of the SDP Youth Forum were beaten in Vinkovci just because the police appeared to be similar to some kind of criminal. So much for human rights in the Republic of Croatia, and I think it is really one segment in which we should see what to do because it seems to me that according to statistics that, unfortunately, very late for the past year come from the Ministry of the Interior, there is a growing trend of violence when it comes to police towards citizens. Let's see what's wrong with human rights and family protection. It is said in this document that the basic right is the right to work. Unfortunately, everyone here has already pointed out that it is in 17th place on the list of human rights priorities, so in the last place. It is often said here about families who are on the verge of existence, and therefore, what should be done is not given social assistance but to provide these people with work, provide a job and enable them to earn their own living and thus ensure their family's existence. It's for this government in the last place. I understand why it is in the last place when, for example, in the past year, credit lines for small enterprises that have produced very good results in the opening of new jobs have not been spent a single lip. Simply, this HDZ government is obviously not a priority. Therefore, there was no reason for projects that had worked well for the past two and a half years, to have been completely stopped in the past year and all the funds in those positions remained neutral. It is also said in this document that successful parenting should be encouraged, affirmatively going towards it. My dear gentlemen, you have done nothing to try to find a model for paying child alimony. What are we talking about? What responsible parenting? No more commenting on responsible parenting. Let’s do something to make your parents truly responsible for our children. When we proposed the Alimentation Fund in this House, we suggested only one model of how this problem could be solved. Unfortunately, you said there were models, that you knew that you could do it, and that what we're proposing is something that is simply unnecessary to this country. I claim that there are over 120,000 children in this country who do not receive alimony not to agree with you and think that this is a problem that is of existential importance to them and that should have been solved. So much for the human rights of children and families. This is about improving the health care of pregnant women, births, and so on. What promotion are we talking about? Do you know what it's like to be in maternity care? So you have a situation where you have 10 births of two toilets? Are we talking about human rights? For me, it's a very endangered human rights. It's about protecting women's reproductive health. Once again, a declarative norm here. Let's see what's really going on? For the past year, a discussion has been held at the ministry, although expert teams are, therefore, experts of people who have been dealing with the sexuality of adolescents for 20 years. So a program of sexual education was designed in schools to educate children because they need to be educated at the earliest age. It's where our children's reproductive rights are most protected. Unfortunately, after advertising the Church and some others gave up on this one project and now some expert groups are being created, some groups that, I fear, are spilling from hollow to empty because they do not want to admit that sexual education in schools does not want children to be taught. This is something that is unnecessary, we have a program that is absolutely unsuitable for today and cannot teach children how to protect themselves and how to responsibly enter into sexual relations. Therefore, the story of the protection of reproductive health of women falls simply somewhere at the very beginning. It is said here, it is necessary to encourage and strengthen the development of services intended for families. Well, gentlemen, dear, at the Ministry of the Family, you are, though, in the Ministry of the Family a virtual ministry when it comes to family. You have absolutely one virtual ministry, and you have no authority whatsoever. And what you did, which was started as some kind of service and help the families, and you stopped it, and you didn't suggest anything new. Absolutely nothing new. There's also talk here about how women need to be hired. We've had one growth in the last year that's been terrible. We've achieved for the first time in 50 years that we have 60% of unemployed women in the total number of unemployed because you cut the credit lines for women's entrepreneurship last year. So they're not realised. And secondly, because she left your government, ever since you came to power, one retrograde policy, which is that women should stay home and have nothing else. Therefore, we should completely get out of one world of work. As for preventing domestic violence, too. He's talking about how something should be improved here. So when it comes to improving, give what you can do now, and that is to write as a government certain implementing acts to fully revive the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. So there was only the Ministry of the Interior to write an implementing act, no other ministry. For what? When you talk about abused children, you talk about how to do everything with NGOs, how children should be helped in psychosocial protection. You know what you did? In the first month when you came to power at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, you abolished the funds that were received by the only institution that was involved in the protection of abused children, it was the Poliklinic for the protection of child abuse of the children of the City of Zagreb, so you abolished the funds that were coming from the Ministry of Health and Social Care. So much for your care for the children who have been abused. And as for helping as well by mental health experts, well, you gentlemen have made an appointment here, because in the past year and a half of our government has started hiring mental health experts in primary and secondary schools, because in 96, the current minister kicked them out of the school system. So, in the last year and a half of our mandate, we've secured resources and started hiring mental health experts. The first thing you did in your first act of budgeting was delete these funds and stop hiring mental health experts in schools. So, this here is simply what it said would be telling you a story of real human rights in this country are simply at a very low level and this is a document Mr. President if there is no possibility in our Rules of Procedure to throw it into the basket, there is the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will withdraw it and for the second time not be embarassed in front of this Assembly, but in front of the Croatian public with one of these documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32002	Thank you very much. In '93, ladies and gentlemen, in Vienna, there was an international conference on human rights at which the members of the government, the member states of the United Nations and NGOs and members of the international community, and the Conference on Human Rights, which also proposed recommendations to all the United Nations Member States to approach the development of the National Programme as a plan for the protection and promotion of human rights. The recommendation sets out which, which should include the national programme, are therefore at one general general level with a view to indicating the objectives. Today, here in the debate, they criticise the government's moves of individual ministries, and not refer to what the programme means, in line with a recommendation from the Vienna Conference, on the basis of which all members of the United Nations approach the creation of national programmes, but rather simply to be analysed, they focus on the criticisms of the Government, the law, the individual measures, which is quite something else, rather than on what is meant as the topic of this debate. So much bile and so much caricination and assault on one proposal, I don't know if it's necessary. But we are different proposals for the programme in this House that have several pages, proposals, recommendations, have the right to, only that is the right to do so, because I am obliged and empowered to provide explanations in the adoption of laws, recommendations and some other colleagues Stazic. I know you understand, but obviously it's not clear. It's the same as that, well, it's human right to be vague. But let's go. A little correction of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32003	It is an incorrect allegation that I quote this government's "last priority employment problem". Absolutely not. That is absolutely not true, and it reflects exactly what we have now had the opportunity to hear very well, that you tried to use the debate on human rights to criticise the work of the ministries and the government, and not only did it not work out for you, but it is not at all the subject of this debate. And such examples or corrections of incorrect allegations can now list you five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32004	Next correction, honourable representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32005	... Mr. President. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] I would correct the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, who said that retrograde policy is a government that allows a woman to work or not to work after childbirth. Retrograde colleagues would be if they didn't have that right, and that right was taken from them. However, I would still like to refer very briefly to the segments in your family presentation, so I've corrected family, youth, so let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32006	Well, take it easy, don't fix it, take it easy. Well, don't. Steady. If you do, don't caricate fellow Stazic. Create a theater atmosphere. Leave that. You've corrected the incorrect quote and on it, and hold on. Do you have any other incorrect allegations, not an observant comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32007	I do, but I'm interrupted, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32008	That's right, yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32009	My colleague said that the segments of this document that speak of family, youth, children are not intolerably bad like this, like this. I would say they are not, but they are good colleagues, but it is retrogradely unacceptable that you as a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports have not been on that committee once. Therefore, you are neither interested in this committee nor family, youth or sport, or there are no TV cameras there, so there is no need to step forward or speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32010	And the next amendment. Comrade Opacic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32011	Well, Mr. President, in violation of Rule 209, I'm asking you nicely to protect me, this is now...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32012	It can't, 209 can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32013	This wasn't even a correction to an incorrect quote, this was the anger of my colleagues because of everything I said. He has the right to his anger, but I beg you to do so in his debate, not in correcting an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32014	Not exactly an esteemed colleague, Opacic. First of all, you didn't call which rule of procedure would be violated, and I don't have to repeat it to everyone anymore. In his opinion, MP Bagaric corrected allegations he considers incorrect. And then don't if someone corrects your allegations, then you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you wish to have a correction of the alleged incorrect assumption. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32015	Thank you. It is entirely incorrect and malicious to say that the policy of the Croatian Democratic Community towards women is to sit at home and give birth. I don't think I should elaborate that specifically. This has offended not only women in HDZ, but also all those who vote for our policy, who are no less educated, emancipated and businessable than those in the SDP and their sympathisers. And another incorrect allegation is, now I'm not going to hand the book down again, because I've already given it to that side of the SDP, so the press of the Ministry of Economy in which you have different programmes between the in-houses and now in implementing those that promote entrepreneurship in young people and women especially, so on the website all those who want to see that this government encourages and entrepreneurship in women, in particular, and women are also in all other categories that are, where it's possible to get credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32016	Please. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32017	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of the Trakostanec already fixed what I was going to say, but since I have a book here, I'll read something else. A colleague said that this government has left all projects related to women's entrepreneurship and employment. And here is the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, along with all these programmes where women such as local development project, business project, project, export, beginner, innovation and all other projects can participate equally, and this is women entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32018	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32019	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I think that no one in Croatia and the Croatian Assembly today... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32020	There was a great injustice. Honorable representative Jurjevic signed up neatly for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32021	I forgive your confusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32022	Not to me, I'm not confused. Don't forgive me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32023	Well, you've forgotten that I answered the line and I forgive your confusion over this confusion that's been created a little bit, and because of one thing I think, I have a strange feeling that a little bit of rape isn't a human being but a Rulesman, our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32024	Who are you replicating and what are you replicating?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32025	I'm replicating my colleague Opačić because her debate led me to think about how it wasn't really Mrs. Kosor here who, as a representative, was right to warn me that there were no ministers here, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32026	Comrade Jurjevic, you know what the replica institute is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32027	I know, I know. Allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32028	Well, then replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32029	Yeah, let me get to the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32030	Well, you won't be able to make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32031	Namely, I'd be talking here about protecting the human rights of agents. It is my right and my desire to see the Minister here when it comes to the subject of her territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32032	Which one of my colleagues are you replicating? It's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32033	Well, here you go, fellow Opačić, you see, I think it would be very good to change the rules of procedure to allow the minister to address us as a Member so she doesn't have to come, not to bother. He sends a letter to the MPs, protects our rights, protects himself, neatly elsewhere, here is a debate and everyone is pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32034	My colleague Jurjevic, a colleague of Opačić, didn't speak. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32035	...that was my thinking and I think you should support this initiative because it protects our representation rights. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32036	Now if it weren't unserious, this would be something like this, let's say a little bit would have been some kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you have here as you had yesterday with Franz Ferdinand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32037	The day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32038	The day before yesterday, so is today. You need to know what replica institutes are. It's a replica when you replicate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Oh, come on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How long will it take you to repeat that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32039	It's a Latin element.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32040	Oh, the elements of Latin, yes, yes. And they're replicas. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] It's replicas. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32041	Thank you, Mr. President, for the second time. I don't think anyone smart or normal in public and here in the Croatian Parliament is thinking of us MPs and MPs being against the idea and need to bring up the National Programme for the Protection of Human Rights and it seems to me that when people and citizens watching this debate today and the session think such an important topic and they're actually having such a rather unserious discussion. So there's got to be an unserious debate about a non-serious document. Namely, I said, and I totally agree with the idea of bringing the program in, bringing in what the program is. Not a declaration, not a strategy, but a program because what we have here is colleagues, but before me has actually just said the catalog of what feels like it should be done, and given what it says and the expression in the document itself, it seems to me that or doesn't know how to do it, and then it's insane to bring in at all that document that there's some kind of cover there, because then there's just some illusion that's going to eventually be scattered or there's nothing concrete about what I personally don't want to believe. Maybe it would be more right to call this document really a declaration, call it a real strategy because it's not a program. I will here look back at the discussion of two aspects of this program or two parts of that program where I hope to argue this initial thesis that I said. What I think is most important to me as a teacher and in this area of protection of human rights it is a question of education and education for human rights. First, it is totally unacceptable to support human rights education in a national programme that I repeat is not written, I quote, in order to build a sustainable development of democratic society. It is too weak a formulation and a completely unacceptable statement since much more should be done than support because the issue of education, awareness of human rights is much broader than that. The fact is what is further stated in the document that Croatia adopted the National Education and Education Programme for Human Rights in 1999, but few people know what is the real situation at school with this national programme. It's kind of like this program to be adopted like this and adopted like this. The programme formally exists within the framework of the curricula and the programme, but it does not fall under any teaching subject. It writes neatly at the beginning and then says it will be carried out in teaching in all classes in all classes. Unfortunately, the everyday life at school is such that what is being spent always and always is not being implemented anywhere, and it seems to me that if this document stays this way, it is the same fate that awaits him. Let's look at the goals. Encourage education on human rights. It's not enough to encourage education. A new course should be introduced, a special course that would deal with education on human rights and on civil society. Further, professionally train and perfect educational staff in the field of education for human rights. I agree with that goal, but I do not believe that this government wants to implement it and that it wants to implement it she would have already implemented it. Two things. Human rights education funds have been abolished in the 2004 and 2005 budget. I personally and as an advocate wrote an amendment to those amounts because I find it totally unacceptable and it's not a bad interpretation, it's simply a fact. And on the other hand, not one single 10 million in primary education and 5 million in secondary education that should have been related to the training of teachers and professional associates and their permanent training, including for this programme. The third goal that I personally have is very, I don't know what it's really supposed to mean, I'd like to get an explanation. Legally regulate education for human rights under educational legislation. It doesn't mean anything but absolutely n. For one who knows educational legislation and for one who knows how school works. To strengthen the educational role of the school and to encourage implementation, I think I agree with my colleague Lucino that there is something stronger, promotions, incentives, but the programme needs to answer the question of how to strengthen it, how to implement it, what measures to implement it. Mr. President, Bologna, the Vienna Declaration you are referring to right now has a formula for having to bring forward activities rather than declarative attitudes and general things related to respect for human rights. The second issue of youth, the question of family. It's completely wrong. I ask that, and here, especially right now, I am speaking to a representative of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. It is particularly wrong in the context of the human rights of young people to bind exclusively to family. All the research that exists, everything that shows that we are even in a position to single out young people as a discriminated group for which their human rights should be protected is precisely what the fact that they are difficult to isolate their primary families, that they are difficult to hire, that there are problems with housing, etc. And it is completely wrong to tie young ones to children, and it is completely wrong to put it all in the family especially as young people do. That young people are special in Croatia today, but Croatia is not that exclusive, there is more evidence discriminated against. One of the perhaps more significant which, like this entirely of our daily political aspects of the UNDP when it published a report on social development this year for the first time since 7 or 8 reports, has produced an exclusive and thematic report on youth. So they have already recognized that there are things in Croatia that are not right. Sama, one of the most important indicators and the question of social participation of young people at an extremely low level, and not to tell one here, but in the Croatian Parliament a famous story, the national programme of action for young people that has been adopted, is not being implemented at all. What is the problem here in Croatia, which unfortunately does not recognise, and recognises for other groups of people, has been recognised for women, although not enough about this programme, is recognised as national minorities, is recognised as disabled but it is not recognised, however, that there exists within society and statistics by age, and that there is much to be done to avoid this type of discrimination. All trends in Europe and documents and Europe and the European Commission and the Council of Europe, as well as the UNDP already mentioned, say that this is recognised as a problem and that this falls into one, possibly not the third, but the second generation of human rights to be protected. In addition to this principled one attitude towards young people here, there is a proposal for programming and inaccuracy. I quote: "Institutional mechanisms have been established in order to promote, promote and promote the rights of children and young people." Which, which institutional mechanisms related to young people? Well, Minister Kosor, on my 3 parliamentary issues, answers me in writing that no body has been formed, that the national programme is not being implemented then I guess the government is misleading itself or doesn't trust itself. I mean, I just don't know what this is about because the minister herself who's in charge is saying that it just doesn't exist. So that's one formal inaccuracies I'm asking you to correct. One question. Youth goals say social policy will improve towards young people. In addition to that, is it generally possible that this means that the ruling party's promise to introduce children's extras for students will finally be carried out? Is this perhaps the fulfillment of the promise to young people that the number of scholarships will increase, not as they have been reduced in the last two years? I think, take a look at those documents of yours and try to specify because this part about young people and the very national program that you're quoting is totally in your fight with what you're saying here. At the end of the day, all the programs and what ambitions are called the program, and they are not only weak instruments, but they are both necessary and important, but here one operationalization is necessary given the too high level of generality of this document I do not think that it will be able to fix and indeed agree with the appeals that it might be better to spend time and money to really gather people who will make a concrete programme because while we are here talking about human rights declarations are one very specific thing. Human rights are not protected by declarations. Human rights are not protected by those compassions, human rights are not protected by tears, they are not protected, they are not protected by this type of activity. And in the end, I was impressed by the list of respected people who worked on this, on this program, but still, I can't support all these dignitaries for the reasons I said earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32042	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32043	Thank you. I need to correct my young colleague that, uh, this program is unserious. So he's very serious. It is based on very serious international documents and Croatian laws from the Constitution to the lower and cannot be said to be insane to implement it. I think it's perfectly normal to accept a program like this that will be operationalized, and my colleague is still based on her faith. So she admits that it's exactly what it says in that program, but she doesn't believe it's going to be implemented. So I can't believe she could say it at all, and I'm correcting that assumption once again that they're not protecting themselves, another allegation that they're not protecting themselves with human rights by declarations, documents or whatever. You protect your colleagues by doing so, and then by implementing them in reality and control and implementation in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32044	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32045	Well, here's what I would do to my colleague, Lugaric, who was offered her last sentence or two, and looking back a little bit, I was inspired by what Pupovac was saying. At first, I began to be appalled at the fact that Pupovac was criticising this document when two prominent Serbian organisations supported the proposal. But then he mentioned my name. And now I look back at my colleague Lugaric, so I was amazed to hear that I am, says an outside associate in making this proposal. So then don't be lazy and call any other names of external associates from the Supreme Court's judges, I'll talk about it in detail, prominent professors, human rights activists, and all of them unanimously claim they weren't any outside associates, that they might have participated in this or that round table but that no outside associates were. And I think it's worth talking about, but I'll talk about it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32046	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32047	Well, a respected colleague would personally be very uncomfortable with me in your situation, but it is obvious, however, that the example you set for you and your colleagues also shows all hypocrisy because in a document where human rights should be protected, fundamental human rights are not protected, people who are completely wrong and contrary to them in the end mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32048	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament... interrupted this debate for an hour to discuss the proposal for a decision to amend the decision to set up an investigative fact-finding committee concerning the issued state guarantees of private company creditors at Viktor Lenac Shipyard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The motion for a decision is the Investigative Commission. That's what we found the other day on the agenda. It is that the Commission has requested an extension of the deadline for a month and a half. The deadline he was granted is February 15th. They have not completed their work, and on February 15th, the deadline should end, so we will now continue with this point and we will ask the President or the Secretary of the Investigation Commission to briefly explain only the proposal for an extension that I have already explained to be. We should now continue the debate on the proposal for a national programme for protection and promotion of human rights, but here comes the time of the break, and we will stop this debate. We'll continue it on 16th of February at 9.30 p.m. The debate is followed by a respected representative of Gordana Sobol pa Davorko Vidovic, etc. How many more MPs do we have left? Yeah, there's 12 other MPs. At 3:00 a.m. vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32051	Thank you, Mr. President. It's very short, and the essence of the matter is that you said it yourself. The commission is near the end, and we need more, here it is proposed within 6 months, so the extension of the deadline to complete that task for which this High House has therefore entrusted us with the Croatian Parliament and I suggest that we support this amended decision as I repeat the commission could bring our work to an end in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32052	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of HNS representatives of PGS, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32053	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I got a little breathy because I didn't know it was going to fall into the agenda like this. I'd be very brief here, but I'd still have a need to ask in connection with this proposal of five questions. First, did a colleague and colleague ask the Commission to do the job on an unreal short notice, so for the second time, they are now asking the Parliament to extend their deadline. Second question. Is it true that the investigation committee decided not to question some members of the former government because if the answer is confirmed, then the third question is. Is it logical that because of the shortening of the list of those with whom the talks will be held, an extension or a reduction of the deadline is required? The fourth question, if it has already been concluded, is that it is not necessary to talk to the most responsible people from the past government and the subject of the investigation is just government guarantees. Then we wonder if the commission should continue to work at all or give us its report right now. And the fifth and final question. Is it possible for colleagues and colleagues to make fools of one of the Croatian citizens and of us MPs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32054	On behalf of the commissioner for the secretary of the commission, honourable representative Emil Tomljenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32055	Thank you, Mr. President, I will answer all questions very briefly and precisely. So we need a deadline, a total of six months now that it's also a legal deadline. We're within the framework of the law, of course. The work of the investigating committee is not just about examining these or those people, or as witnesses. If you have time, I will show you the comprehensive documentation that we, as members of the committee, have had to study which is a comprehensive and extensive job if it will be done in a serious way and implemented and if the commission is actually then it can be expected to carry out the task that this tall House has given. So that's what this deadline is about. They will give an investigative commission, and which persons as witnesses we called in the commission's work, of course, the witnesses were questioned by them, they gave their statement. But this is not, therefore, the hearing or testimony of witnesses is not the only way or methodology in which a factic substrate or all of those matters that are important for the commission to make a proposal for a decision or a proposal for measures that will, in a very quick manner, be patient here, it is only for a month to present this high House. And in the end, no one and not the least members of the commission make fools of anyone. If we have a task we are aware of responsible people, we want to do it in the best possible way not to do it but to do it. Respecting the right order this institution has given us this task. But there's nothing we can do if it's too short. We're just asking for a deadline so that the task you've entrusted us with in the best possible way can bring an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32056	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Szazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32057	Well, it's no secret that the SDP Club or myself, because right now I'm talking here personally, I'm thinking about these investigative committees. The joke with the investigative committees is their establishment. That's the moment when someone can unargumentedly turn on someone to try to blame. And then what happens in the commission is what we'll see. Another thing about these committees is that it is strange that this commission is based on a parliamentary majority proposal, and the parliamentary majority has a majority of its members. On the other hand, the fact that it has the power to examine all the allegations that the commission should be able to examine the authorities of the state, and it should and had to do so in a weird way. But the fact that he who proposes to establish the commission has a majority in it confirms that he will sue and judge them. We haven't heard an explanation here why we need an extension now. We haven't heard too much. Look, someone came in here and said, look, we've started the interrogations now, but we've come to an obstacle, we can't get some documents, they promised us those documents in two months, and we until we get those documents, we can't. You know, some kind of excessive explanation. We just heard, we need a little more time. Until more time. I think somewhere up until the local elections that you set it up like that. Somewhere up to the local elections or somewhere ahead of the local elections, if the cadium which filed the indictment and which verdict could be reached with the same arguments with which the investigation committee had asked to come out with the findings. We did not object, though we supported the establishment of this commission, supported it to complete its work. In advance, I express my doubts. In advance, I express my doubts, due to the relationship between the parliamentary majority and the minority in the credibility of these conclusions. But some facts won't change. Facts are facts. And all the facts that this commission comes up to will hopefully these facts will hopefully present themselves to the public. Independently on the political aspect or political aspect of the establishment and operation of the commission. I don't mind extending the time limit to the commission, if that has any valid arguments. That's why we haven't heard them here, so I'm warning the public in advance that it's obvious that they're asking for that deadline to be extended to somewhere before the local elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32058	Thank you. Replica's respected representative Ivo Lochar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32059	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, Mr. Stazic said that you know who the cadiya is, that you know who to beat who to court. He spoke of the parliamentary majority talking about the majority in the commission. If memory weren't cheating on me, I'd ask my dear and esteemed colleague, Nenad Stazic, if he was accidentally in the Parliament about the past term when an investigative committee was set up for the wheat affair, which he was talking about at the time, which was why the commission wasn't working then, who was in power then, who was the cadiya and who was then suing and who was the judge at the time. Let me remind you. And the other night I watched you on TV, you were with Mr. Zlatko Tomcic and he had a huge fight on that show with the truth when he said that the commission didn't work. And for you to know as well as this Parliament and the entire Croatian public, I personally asked in this House 16 times why this commission does not work. Whether it was then dependent on the parliamentary majority or on the parliamentary minority. And I know a dear colleague that you know as well as I do that it was such a crime that is not remembered in Croatia. I have evidence that the then government robbed the Croatian state, Croatian peasants and Croatian taxpayers for a billion kuna. And the whole affair is a billion and 560 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32060	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32061	I am convinced that this parliamentary majority will support you in this. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32062	Thank you. Honorable representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32063	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to argue because I didn't think there was any need for this request from the commission to this House of Commons to extend the legal period, but obviously there are some misunderstandings both for Mr Stazic and for members of the HNS Club and probably also for the Croatian public, so here I'm going to use these 10 minutes to say a few words about what the commission has done so far, which has not done and which is why it has not done and what it has to do if this House decides to extend the deadline for the commission. We have since the first day taken responsibility to do the work that this House has entrusted us with and I must say that from the first day on, we have come upon the plantings on the side of those who were to serve this House, or this committee with documentation that is necessary and necessary to enter into a thorough analysis in order to get answers to questions that interest both this House and the Croatian public. I would single out only one of them since we're going to talk about it in a full report that we're going to present in this House, it's the bankruptcy manager, Mr. Skrell, who was responding to our writings in style, and we don't have the documentation, we don't know where the documentation is, you're looking for that paperwork there and there. When we requested the address Mr. Škrlec referred us to, the answer from that address, that documentation was not with us, we owed that documentation four or five years ago. So you can see clearly from this what kind of problems we're facing. In an analysis of these problems, we asked ourselves questions as to how the Trade Court had set up a critic for one of the bankruptcy managers of Victor Lance. What's behind that? Is there something behind it? Wasn't the appointed man targeted to cover up some of the things that were going on in "Viktor Lenc" so as not to answer the questions of the commission, the House and the Croatian public. And these are the reasons why we spent days and days, weeks and months not getting answers to the questions that we were interested in. It's been four and a half months if I'm not mistaken. We still haven't come up with an answer to the question of who owned Victor Lance. We don't know who owned Victor Lance because we didn't have any insight into the stock books. There's a clue to the stock books. You witnessed through the media what you were able to hear and find out that the stock book just wasn't there. Nobody knew that, didn't Mr. Squirt as a bankruptcy manager where the stock books were, didn't even know the revision that made the reports where the stock books were. The stock book just wasn't there. Mr. Vrhnik said on the committee that the book of shares is not even available, he even issued a statement, so that I do not intreminate him he issued a statement published by HINA and all the media where he decidedly claims that the book of shares never existed. And that day when Mr. Vrhnik issued a statement that the book of shares was not there, that day the stock books appear, are loaded into the truck and brought here to the Croatian Parliament and the stock books are handed over. We are not experts in financial experts in order to carry out an analysis of what is in these stock books, and it is normal that we have to engage for this authorized house that will carry out a thorough analysis of what the shares say to be seen in history, the history of acquisition of ownership of "Vicor Lenco" from the first day of 1991 until the moment of bankruptcy. And the least we're interested in is in 1999, so in 2000. It is not at all disputed at all, I can say it now, in my own name, not on behalf of the commission that no mortgage could be recorded on the maritime well-being. It is not disputed that Victor Lenac is on the maritime good and that what happened could not happen. That's not at all controversial. I repeat, I speak for myself. I'm also using this debate to answer Mrs. Zgrebec if it's true what today's newspaper says that I'm avoiding Mr. Racan. That's how I want to deny what Mr. Stazic says, that "when you're being sued by a cadiya judge". There have been proposals even from the chairman of Mr Djapic's commission to invite Mr Racan, Mr Linic, Mr Jurcic, and I don't know yet some Croatian government ministers, Mr Church, to what I said on my behalf that I think it is early, that there is no need to call Mr Racan, Linic, Church, Jurcic until we have a review of the situation that was happening there, given that in this case we will have to call this gentleman twice and more times, and that would probably be seen as a shagging or attempting to compromise our distinguished party colleagues, the former Prime Minister and former ministers, which we have not thought of. And we just don't want to do it. ... I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I wasn't a party member, so... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, I'm not, I'm not. Therefore, my dear fellow parliamentary colleagues, this commission really wants to do this job in a high-quality, responsible way without intent to compromise anyone, without the intention of compromising members of the former government, members of your party, without the intention of creating a distorted and false picture of what was happening, is already our only goal and intention to present in this House the actual facts. [[All right, Branimir, let's get on with it.]] And we need time for that, so we need at least these months and a half more. I believe that we will end, in addition to that and the law obliges us to end it within this time limit, we will end it, but it is necessary that this historic reconstruction of ownership in Victor Lenc from 1992 to 2000, and for that we have decided to choose one house, I will now tell you for the first time, this house is called the "Sortium Code" which ran the stock books by the end of the year 2000 and has information about what was going on. And in 2000 books were handed over to the Central Depositary Agency. So the commission's decision will hire the house. And yesterday we were informed by this house that the reconstruction of the books of shares takes them at least 21 days and that if we opt for these services of this house there is also the obligation of the commission or of the Croatian Parliament in the amount of 119 thousand kuna plus VAT. So we're looking and we're going to ask for the consent of the responsible people to spend this House's budget money on this decision and this move. If there is a decision that the Parliament will not pay these expenses of this house to carry out a historical reconstruction of the stockholder's books, we accept it. If there is a decision that the Parliament will stand behind these costs, we are prepared to do this job in quality and submit a report to the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, so for the longest time in 45 days. Here's what's in the shortest lines of what you're interested in. So, one more time, I'm done with it. I reject all insinuations of those who are trying to cast a shadow on the work of this committee and, on their behalf and on behalf of my colleagues, I say responsibly that we will do this job fairly and correctly and professionally and truly inform the Assembly of what the information and facts that the commission receives through its work, or the conclusions it accepts and brings to its sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32064	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32065	I would like to thank Mr. Glavas and ask the sixth question, was it not possible to come up with these clear arguments immediately so there would be fewer questions, less doubt, less inconvenience for all of us. Thank you very much, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32066	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32067	I completely agree with you. The commission is working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure say that public documents, public appearances on behalf of the Commission, have the right of the President of the Commission and the Secretary of the Commission. The President of the Committee is on the official road this week and has not made statements, and the secretary has reported in the shortest lines, so here is an open debate and in this relevant place we are telling you truthfully and accurately in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-11-0.u32068	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. And a proposal for a decision to amend the decision to set up the Research Commission to determine the facts relating to the guarantees issued, the creditors of the private shipbuilding company Viktor Lenac d.d. The debate is closed. That's her for a month and a half extension. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that the decision was made with 101 votes for, six abstentions and one against.
