ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u45839	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judgment Council, second reading of the P.Z. No. 258. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. .../Speakers speak out loud./... I skipped one. Correction of an incorrect allegation. So I'm crossing, I'm sorry, I skipped. Technical error.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46784	The next item is - Proposal for a decision to set up a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports in accordance with Article 6. The law on the promotion of child rights. The government delivered an opinion. Additional explanation on behalf of the Committee, Honored Vice-President Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46785	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law stipulates that the Republic of Croatia is awarding a prize for promoting the rights of the child for exceptional achievements in the protection of the welfare of children. The law was passed in 2003 with amendments and additions 2005. According to the law, the prize is awarded on 20 November of each year on the date of adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The prize is awarded as a reward for life's work and as an annual prize. The prize for promoting the right of the child is awarded by the Committee for the Prize, which consists of five members, and is established by the Croatian Parliament in time of two years. The members of the Committee shall be appointed from the ranks of known public employees dealing with issues related to the rights of the child, and on a proposal from the Assembly Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, which shall be both the parent board and the proposing of this proposal, which shall be before the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. At the 22nd meeting of the Committee held on 6 October 2005, the Committee decided to propose to the members of the Committee well-known public employees: Prof. dr.sc. Mira Alenčić, longtime head of the Department of Family Law at the Faculty of Law, University of Zagreb, is now retired. Dragan Zlatovic, director of the Sibenik Theatre and the Sibenik International Children's Festival. Academia Alicu Verhaj Merballetić, vice-president of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and a prominent demographic. Tanja Radocaj, professor of psychology and head of UNICEF's office in Croatia, as well as Božica Šimleša, professor of Music Culture and Croatianism and highlighted on the establishment of a peaceful reintegration of education in Croatia's Podunavlje in the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee for Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament proposes representatives of the Croatian Parliament to accept this proposal for a decision to set up a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. And in the end, I would say one famous and beautiful saying: "That little children are like dense stars that rejoice and shine in the dark night." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46786	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. My colleagues and colleagues, I would now suggest that we stop this debate and declare a decision to set up a Committee on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, because this Committee should meet very quickly and take the necessary activities for the award. Okay. Since this is a consensual decision by all, that the answer has unanimously established this proposal, I propose that we vote with the raise of hands. Please, who's in favour of the motion for that decision? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 82 votes, a decision has been taken to set up a Committee on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child in the text and in the composition of the proposal proposed by the relevant Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46789	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. In front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance, we propose the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Affairs Act. The Foreign Exchange Act regulates the business of authorised exchangers by prescribing that exchange operations can be carried out by residents with legal personality status and by entrepreneurs of individuals using a protected computer program for carrying out exchange operations with a business bank and registered for the performance of such transactions. The adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act is foreseen as a legislative measure in the draft under the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the Association of the European Union for 2005. The draft law has been initiated by criticism and recommendations of the Council of Europe Special Committee for the assessment of measures against money laundering, which highlights the need for the regulation of procedures and the authorisation to carry out exchanges operations, respecting similarity criteria for exchangeholders. Those recommendations aim to extend the preventive system for the prevention of money laundering and to the activities of exchange offices, in accordance with Article 1 of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. On the basis of the above, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act was therefore drawn up, with the final proposal for a law which, in addition to the conditions laid down in the applicable law, introduces an obligation to obtain the approval of the Croatian National Bank for the conduct of exchange operations. For this purpose, the provisions of this law provide for documentation which applicants for the authorisation to carry out exchange operations shall apply to the request for reasons and for the refusal of applications as well as the reasons for the withdrawal of the authorisations granted. The activities of the issue, the withdrawal of the authorisation for the conduct of exchange operations, have been placed in the jurisdiction of the Croatian National Bank since, in its jurisdiction, the adoption of regulations governing the operation of authorised exchangers as well as the control of the operations of banks with which the authorised exchangers conclude a contract on the conduct of exchange operations. The Croatian National Bank also certified the computer programmes that the authorised exchangers are obliged to perform when performing the exchange operations. The transitional and final provisions of this Act provide that authorised exchangers operating under the applicable law shall comply with the provisions of this Act within one year of the date of entry into force of this Act. The second thematic area, which is amended and complemented by the provisions of this law, is the use of data that residents are obliged to deliver to the Croatian National Bank on foreign transactions and transactions. In view of the differences in understanding to which data must be used that the Croatian National Bank collects for the purpose of monitoring the projection of the balance of payments of the Republic of Croatia, this law adds to a provision that formalises the possibility that the collected data, except for statistical purposes, should also be used for the purposes of foreign exchange control. It shall also be added to a provision whereby the provision of data on the supervised person required in percentages of the surveillance is not considered to be an official secret. Those provisions are in line with the supervisory role of the Croatian National Bank and the foreign inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance. So much for the government, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46790	Thank you very much. The committee's rapporteurs. Legislative, finance and state budget, European integration? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46791	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club discussed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Affairs Act and fully supports it. We believe it is necessary to point out the particular basic reasons for proposing amendments and additions to this law, which can be summarised in three basic facts, which are firstly that the existing law came into force in June 2003 and birth in accordance with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Community of the Republic of Croatia, under which it had to be able to liberalise certain segments of capital transactions in foreign exchange. The full liberalisation of foreign exchange must be achieved by the Republic of Croatia to achieve full membership in the European Union. Second, the Special Committee of the Council of Europe negatively assessed certain provisions of the applicable law and recommended that it be amended and supplemented. The evaluations of the Special Committee of the Council of Europe attach great importance to the Council of Europe in particular in the criteria of strengthening the system for the prevention of money laundering, the stability of financial institutions and ensuring confidence in the entire financial system. Third, the legislative regulations of this area are also provided for in the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for joining the European Union for 2005 in the chapter on freedom of movement of capital and in the chapter on the prevention of money laundering. Realising the position of the Republic of Croatia and the government's efforts in the process of joining the European Union, these reasons must be accepted. The law accurately regulates two important thematic areas and extends the conditions prescribed by the applicable law. The first thematic area covers the conditions under which a resident, a domestic legal person, can carry out exchange operations. An obligation to obtain a licence from the Croatian National Bank is introduced, the conditions to be met by a resident who wants to carry out the tasks of an authorised exchanger are laid down, the documentation is prescribed to prove that those conditions are met and the authorisation procedure is prescribed. We also consider a very important provision containing the reasons and conditions under which the approvals granted are withdrawn. In this law, it is prescribed that exchangeholders operating under the applicable law must comply within a year with the provisions of this law. If they do not comply with this obligation within the prescribed period of one year, they shall be obliged to apply for the removal from the court register where they are registered within 30 days. In addition, this law introduces a criterion of similarity for exchangeholders under which the Croatian National Bank does not grant approval if the owner of the craft or member of the management of a legal person is punishable for criminal offences prescribed by this law, i.e. for the criminal offence of money laundering. In addition, if the documentation attached is not possible to establish the identity of the applicant, whether it is the owner of a craft or a legal person or its share in the underlying capital, the authorisation shall not be granted. This means that very strict criteria have been introduced for exchangeholders, which we consider to be a significant improvement of the law. These conditions are precisely regulated in Articles 46a, 46b and 46c of the new law which precisely regulates what must contain a request for the authorisation to carry out exchange operations, what is the method of deciding on a request for the authorisation to carry out exchange operations and what are the reasons for the withdrawal of the authorisation to carry out exchange operations. In particular, it should be stressed by the provision which requires the authorised exchanger to carry out the tasks based on a pre-contract with the Croatian National Bank or a pre-contract with the manufacturer of the computer programme to deliver the contracts in question or to withdraw the authorisation. The second thematic area governed by this law is the area of use of data that residents are obliged to deliver to the Croatian National Bank, i.e. the Ministry of Finance. So far, there has been a dilemma or a difference in understanding to which this data may be used. This Law now adds a provision that allows the use of collected data, except for statistical purposes and which is very important, both for the control of foreign exchange and foreign foreign exchange transactions. This provision is in line with the supervisory function of the Croatian National Bank and the Foreign Affairs Inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, by supplementing Article 49, residents are obliged to report to the Croatian National Bank on capital operations with non-residents and, at the request of the State Inspectorate, to provide information on the real owners of non-residents with which the business was concluded, especially if he is outside the territorial entrepreneur. The new provision added in Article 56 states that the provision of data in the supervised person required in the surveillance procedures is not considered to be an official secret. The Croatian National Bank will determine the conditions, i.e. the content, manner and procedure of reporting non-residents. The supervisory authorities involved in the supervisory and control procedure shall exchange information with each other, and a special act will regulate the way and content of the exchange between them. Penalties prescribed for legal and natural persons are appropriate because it has been proven that fines and prisons can introduce order and discipline in the implementation of any law, including this one. These provisions shall contain, in addition to fines and prison sentences and protection measures, the prohibition to carry out activities, and the withdrawal of foreign cash or cash in kunas in whole or in part. The prescribed criminal provisions may be harsh at first sight, but their consistent application will allow for equal conditions for the work of foreign exchange institutions. Strengthening these activities and liberalising capital transactions, which is ultimately the objective of this Act. This is ultimately our mission in the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal gains of the European Community. That is why, as I said at the outset, the Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the adoption of this Law by an urgent procedure, especially as we still have a lot to do if we want to keep pace until we reach full membership in the European Community. And that's all our undeniable and unique goal and commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46792	Thank you. The HNS Club, the Honorable Representative, Happy Ferenchuck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46793	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Unlike my discussion on the Law on minimum protection measures in the cash business that was passed on to a shortcut and without real consultations, I would like to say for this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act that a good example of the method of adoption is because the proposer has consulted science, profession and all interested parties. Therefore, this Bill of Law is an amendment and an addition to the Law is a good one, and the HNS Club will support this proposal. Obviously, the reasons why this proposal for a law was approached stemmed from the need to further adapt the legislation of the Republic of Croatia to the criteria and practices of the European Union and specialised committees such as the Special Committee of the Council of Europe for the assessment of measures against money laundering. This Bill proposal is well adapted and in practice it will not disrupt the existing business in that segment. The Foreign Exchange Act of June 2003 allowed the liberalisation of certain segments of business while full liberalisation of capital transactions will be possible at the latest when Croatia becomes a full member of the Union. One of the reasons for the adoption of these amendments to the Law is that the existing Law does not prescribe the licensing of authorised exchangers, and the recommendation of the Council of Europe to assess measures against money laundering is that this type of business should be determined so that it cannot be done without a licence. As well as that exchangeholders must obtain regulations of similarity criteria. In accordance with... The Croatian National Bank will prescribe the terms and conditions of the exchange operations, and the Ministry of Finance, the Foreign Affairs Inspectorate and will continue to monitor the business of authorised now licensed exchangers in accordance with the applicable laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These amendments also bring about changes in the manner of reporting relating to the addition of the CNB's capital investment report and increased control of the Ministry of Finance, i.e., the Foreign Affairs Inspectorate of business with the real owners of residences with which they make their business if the non-resident is outside the territorial enterprise. The further novel is to modify information from the competent authorities. The addition of this article is very important because it allows the provision of data on the supervised person who needs... control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This provision is very important to provide for by law because it prevents the damage to the use of money laundering. The penal provisions of the applicable Law are complemented by the items relating to documents and data, and the essence of earlier provisions remains unchanged. The HNS Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, which is another step towards the harmonisation of the legitimate Republic of Croatia with the acquiss of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46794	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46795	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Listening to the position of the HDZ Club and the HNS Club, it seems to me we haven't read the same text of the Law. It seems to me because they haven't read or I haven't read the same text of the law on behalf of the HSP Club. Namely, I would ask you, here, when you are already praising this Law, tell me how you will apply Article 9(2), which says: “authorised exchangeholders”, means those who are now performing exchange operations, “in paragraph 1 of this Act which do not comply within the prescribed time limit with the provisions of this Act”, says, “are due within 30 days of the expiry of the time limit set out in paragraph 1 of this Article to submit to the Court, i.e. a trade register, for the erasure of the activities of the exchange operations from the register”. It's the same variant as asking bank robbers to file criminal charges against themselves. Instead of simply standing is the provision that they will be deleted under official duty. Because look what you've done now as well as the promoter, and praise it, but this is impeccable. What if the person who now has the authority to carry out the exchange operations and the National Bank in the procedure finds that he does not meet the conditions and that he cannot have the approval anymore. So you in law will find that he is obliged to report himself to delete himself from the register, but it's legal to do so if he doesn't apply, no one can do anything about it. Then what are we talking about? This is just one piece of evidence, it's just one piece of evidence why, by that principle, why would something be simple when it can be complex and complicated? Here, you have obviously not read this law, in particular Article 9 which is important. So the thing is very simple in this law, which is what we want to support. The aim is to bring our legislation in line with the legal gains of the European Union relating to exchanges matters that say briefly and clearly, the first issue of exchanges in Croatia can be carried out by one who meets the requirements and gets the approval of the Croatian National Bank. Secondly, the one who is doing this now is obliged to coordinate his activities within a year so that he can continue to do so. Any person who does not comply with his action shall be deleted from the register. Here's the easy shortness, laconica bravitas, short and clear, and you're going along that variant when students in high school ask about Poland, so he says Poland borders with Russia, the capital of Russia is Moscow and then says to the Red Square and everything else and eventually everyone forgets that he was asked by Poland. Here, this is the problem that we keep pointing out here, and the government has to team up for this process to comply with our regulations with the legal gains of the European Union, because there are others. Look, this is a PZE mark, which means we can't even ask the government to step down from the urgency or anything else. Let's at least try to simulate, don't make it up when you see that article 9 is falling. So it's going down, it's not going to be carried out. Therefore, I ask you government representatives to change this or with your own amendment, because in vain the effort of your players, you will do nothing. Be careful, the one who now performs the exchange operations, who will not meet these conditions that are prescribed, and in order to get the approval of a new one from the Croatian National Bank will continue to do so. They won't be able to do anything. So we have to really, the European Community doesn't care where we... Hold it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, she wants to know that Croatia has to have a cladder, now whether it will keep it on the ceiling, whether it will keep it in the left or right corner, and we must, when and when we copy those directives, have to simulate and see what it is, because I obviously don't believe that in the directives of this kind of variant that someone can stay working, or they will delete themselves from the register if they register themselves. So, we have to be serious, because we're going into a pretty serious area, and that's a synchronization without simulating with obviously a pretty bad team, I mean for simulations and legal statements, and if we keep this up, we're just going to produce additional legal uncertainty, and we're going to ask the government in the future to really look after what he's proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46796	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word on this subject. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. He's gone. He's losing his word on this agenda point. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46797	Thank you very much, Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So here are just a few principle reasons why I personally support this bill's proposal with these doubts that I believe can be very easily removed, even defined if necessary. The current law was in line with the SAA and with the European Union directives. It also determined that, that is to say, the liberalisation of certain segments of capital accounts over a period of 4 years after the entry into force of the SAA, and the full liberalisation at the latest until the entry into the European Union, which means that we will achieve it. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption of this new law are to comply precisely with the provisions of the European Union directives, especially when it comes to exchanges. I will not enter into the provisions of certain articles and there is no need, but in principle this harmonisation is at this point optimally proposed, despite the defined conditions, general conditions for those performing exchange operations must have, which is that it is registered, that it has a contract with a bank and a third one has a protected computer program. The CNB also prescribes the conditions that a person will have to fulfil, or within which deadline the CNB will then issue a solution for the approval of such transactions, or within which time limit it is required to respond to such a request. The CNB will also respond either to this doubt to resolve who does not have and when those licences are withdrawn or as similarity is said there, and the word does not somehow stand for me, but harmonisation, therefore to withdraw the licence and under what conditions. So, in addition to this provision, I keep it fundamental that this is also a contribution to preventing "money laundering" with all the provisions in that segment that are standing and that this is how this shift will be achieved in line with this European legislation. Finally, there may be certain doubts in the reporting or necessary data that these users need to deliver either to the CNB or to the foreign sector in the Ministry of Finance and for the purpose of control. First, for statistical data and monitoring of certain movements, and secondly for control, so control of these operations. .../Speaker disabled, reactivated./... Yeah, I didn't turn it off, so I don't know what's technical. And the second reason he says they need to deliver amongst other things the data on ownership structure, especially the thought of... Company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now there may be doubts, but some say it's a business secret, but it has to be entered into one part of the data that must be available to at least those who oversee that foreign exchange business. I say either the Ministry of Finance or the CNB. In that I believe that this provision may, if necessary, be clarified, but that this is quite enough to answer that question. And in the end, with these criminal provisions within a year, what Pero has a remark, I keep the deadline for a year as appropriate so that everyone can coordinate their business, and if not, for me logically those who oversee it will also apply legal provisions and prevent them from continuing to operate because they have not harmonised their acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46798	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46799	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Squirt obviously didn't understand what I said when I was talking. I was talking about the fact that Article 9(2) states that authorised exchangers who are now performing these tasks must comply within a year with the provisions of this law and therefore must be granted the approval of the Croatian National Bank and now proceeds further in case they do not receive approval, then it says that they themselves must report, submit a request to be deleted from the Register or in the Trade Court or Trade Register. Well, that's your variant as if you're asking robbers to file a criminal report against themselves, instead of simply saying that they will be deleted either from the court register or from the trade register on the basis of the notice of the Croatian National Bank. What are you talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46800	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46801	Well, it seems to me that Pero was something away, so the last part of my comment didn't listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46802	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46803	Thank you very much. Here, let me just have a few words, because I personally support this bill. It is indeed in line, i.e. the need to comply with recommendations and with the institutions, standards of the Council of Europe and their regulations. However, this may be an invitation to think, so I would say the necessary changes and some other provisions of the Foreign Exchange Act, but not just the Foreign Exchange Act. And here's how strict the conditions, the strict norms, are going to have to be subjected to right now. I'm just pulling you a parallel when you start a company, a company. Isn't that an indication of how to handle things on our own? Why are we allowed? It is therefore necessary to return an old provision to disable registration and the establishment of a company, businesses of those owners that thus avoid executions. Whether the debtors themselves have stood up against them or that the state appears as a debtor. That's necessary. Here's how they take care of us and how only when others warn us of something we do. However, what seems very important to me, and it is precisely on this topic because this whole adjustment is done precisely because we are effective in countering here not only corruption but also money laundering. It's something the former government met with, and it's open to say that the Money Laundering Office has neither been successful nor we know its work at all. He is inefficient in good work and because he is within the Ministry of Finance itself. We see great turbulence around USKOK not only in changing laws but also in personal solutions but also in order to really fight corruption effectively, so that USKOK is effective this office has nothing to look for in the Ministry of Finance but just in the USKOK. I think it's our common interest, this is indicated on several occasions, but nothing happened. Namely, as far as we have a situation, cases where USKOK has just requested certain data from the office itself which has been called on to give and supply because it is thus imagined to supply exactly the law enforcement bodies and on its own UskoK. He makes it more difficult often with the obligation legally to meet the demand for USKOK. And also what I consider for the sake of our legal certainty. It's not good, it's not good that these criminal provisions regarding criminal offences, not offences, are here now in this particular legislation. How hard we tried to unite all crimes under the Penal Code. It has often been the case that in certain laws we encounter certain crimes. It has created one confusion and in some ways criminal law itself, which is not united in one law, loses on that message, loses on that sharpness, and in some ways is incinerated in width. Far from such norms being needed as a criminal offence, as incrimination in the Penal Code, but we have a similar norm, and then we ask the question of whether they are mild, whether the sharper that is in the fundamental law, and here we now have in particular legislation. Finally, from the point of view of the legality and determination of the crime itself, a provision is questionable. So, I'm saying exactly criticism is something that doesn't change and it's necessary to change. This is the provision of Article 75 and... and 76 of the existing law, which unfortunately does not change in this content. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, in a completely different way, the incrimination of what is normal or necessary in criminal law, where each criminal offence has its own name. This is where it gave up. Well, you also have such a strange nomochnik that first the prison sentence was prevented and then alternatively fined. It is from the point of view of nomotechnics and making and one logic followed by the Penal Code inadmissible because the fine is always a milder punishment, and then always in such a way as to prevent it. The provisions of Article 76 also require amendments in view of the amendment of our existing legislation. It should not be disturbed with the mind that here it is already now almost two years in force of the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Legal Persons. Therefore, this was a corruption because there was no Law on the criminal liability of legal persons at the time. This is where you talk about the person who's responsible who's putting it together. Now this is an extraordinary opportunity for us to expand that crime catalog there that the legal person is responsible for. Therefore, here is my proposal to transfer the provision of Article 75 to a joint criminal incrimination within the framework of the Penal Code and to incorporate Article 76 of the Law amending the law in such a way as to intervene with the amendment of the Law on Liability of Legal Persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46804	Thank you. Final review of Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46805	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs! Here, I thank you all for the comments of the law. I would just say that the government supports amendments to the Committee on Law which it says will therefore be deleted from the court or trade register on the basis of a solution from the Croatian National Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46806	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to vote on the debated agenda points. As regards the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and value, at the request of the Government, in order to agree on individual solutions and possible amendments to the Government would not vote today, but somewhere next time. The rest of us are going to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. First, the Final Proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, P.Z.E., the debate concluded, the amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were adopted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 94 votes for and 1 against the proposed law, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46809	Mr. President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs! Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. So, in July 2002, the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion on the need to unite non-bank sector supervisory institutions. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at a session held on 27 October 2004 to launch a process for the unifying of non-bank financial sector supervisory institutions as of 2005. On 15 November 2004, the finance minister made a decision on the appointment of a task force to draft the law, and in the process of drafting the law, the unification of existing supervisory institutions is also part of consulting companies. The existing supervision institutions that are united in this law at the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency are the following: the Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia, the Pension Funds and Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Insurance Companies. The Agency shall be established as an independent independent legal person responsible for the Croatian Parliament. The main objectives of the Agency are to promote and maintain the stability of the financial system and to monitor the legality of the business of supervisory entities, in this case the non-banking financial institution. The agency has a management that consists, so here it is proposed in law, of five members of which is one president. The President and members of the Agency's administration shall appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Council is the advisory body of the Agency, consisting of nine members of which three members are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the other five members are elected by representatives of the associations of surveillance entities in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce while the chairman of the Agency's administration is a member of the board of directors of the Agency's office. The agency will oversee non-bank financial institutions whose assets today cross 40 billion kuna, increased for all emissions and turnovers of shares and bonds that occur on the Zagreb and Varazdin stock exchange. The current market capitalisation of both markets is about 150 billion kuna. The establishment of a single institution for supervision of non-bank sector financial institutions and a national risk management project and the development of the financial market. This is even more important because the European Union is introducing so-called this year. 42 open market measures and defines the PAN European network of Member States' supervisory institutions. When it comes to the benefits of united or consolidated supervision from other countries' experiences, then most often the following are pointed out. The combined supervision means greater professional capacity for supervision of financial conglomerates, enabling better flow of information and increasing the degree of coordination of the supervisory authority. Interinstitutional traffic within financial conglomerates are better monitored, monitoring standards are harmonised and regulatory means are increased. The competition between individual supervisory institutions and the organisation of functional surveillance is dodging. The possibility of early crisis detection and better crisis management and avoiding regulatory arbitration, therefore, the problem of real competence for a particular problem. The adoption of this Act will finance the agency in a mixed manner both from the state budget and from fees, non-financial banking institutions up to 0,8 prominences to be engaged from assets and revenues held by financial institutions or supervisory entities. The individual burden of fees will be separately governed by the rules on fees which will regulate the basis and frequency of the collection, the fees taking into account the specificity of each institution on the financial market in, under the supervision of this Agency. It is estimated that in the first years, the agency will finance up to 1/3 of the necessary expenditure, while the rest would be settled from the state budget, so that the total amount from the state budget in the first years would not exceed the amount of expenditure now spent from the budget for all three institutions that we have listed, therefore, commissions, agencies and directorates, which is around 25 million kuna. Therefore, this establishment of the Agency does not create additional budgetary expenditure. With the development of the market and the increase in the basis of the fee, the level of expenditure of the agency that is being settled from the state budget should also be reduced and the share financed by supervisory entities should be increased. This Law does not cover regulation and supervision of banks that continue to oversee the Croatian National Bank, one of the main supervisions for this is the complexity of the process, complete unification especially due to the introduction of a new "basel 2" standard in 2007 and any implications that could result from new regulatory supervision of banks. However, the provisions of this Act also lay down the obligation of the Agency and the Croatian National Bank to cooperate with which the prudential regulation and supervision sector of banks will be attached to the agency in the medium term. This Law shall enter into force on 8 days from its publication in the National Journal and shall apply from 1 January 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46810	Thank you. The Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget. I'm opening a debate. Club...... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The President of the Committee is a respected representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46811	Thank you very much, Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It is necessary to read once again this position of the Committee for the reason that we have proposed an amendment that I believe is necessary and that is why I want to explain our position briefly. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 40th session held on 8 November 2005. Proposal for a law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament since 13 October 2005. Council of Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence of Article 65 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Law in question as the home working body. Introductoryly, the Government's representative explained his position as well as the Committee for Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Employers' Association's observations were submitted to the Law in the amendment form in question. The debate on the Committee supports the Croatian Employers' Association's proposal to more precisely regulate the right to compensation, the president and the members of the Agency's administration to resolve those functions. Namely, it is unclear that the provision of Article 6(9) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is inconclusive. The final draft of a law which does not show in which cases the president and members of the Agency's administration shall not be entitled to a cash compensation up to a year. When they're resolved from these functions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In relation to the provision in Article 11(2), it is proposed that it be applied in a way that the advice as an advisory body of the Agency consisting of 9 members of which 3 members are appointed by the Government shall also consist of 5 members elected by representatives of the association representing supervisory entities and not representatives of supervisory associations in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce as proposed by this Act. That proposal was not supported by the Committee but prevailed in the opinion that 5 members should be selected by representatives of surveillance organisations in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The Committee supported the proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to comply with Article 59. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget decided by majority vote 6 for and 2 against proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of that law and the amendments we propose in the end are as follows: In Article 7. The final proposal for a law shall be added to the new paragraph 4 which reads: "In the event that the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article are met, except for the conditions of permanent loss of duty, the provisions of Article 6(9) of this Act shall not apply." Recital: That amendment shall be submitted for the reason that it is not notified that, in the event of the discharge of the duties of the president or members of the Agency's administration or of the resolution on its own request and especially for the reasons implemented, infringements of the legal provisions shall be paid by them for another year. Now to try to reconcile it within that article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46812	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46813	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I hope that this day in Parliament is not the day when the laws pass just because what we need to discuss today and especially this Law is more than important, more than important for the long-term regulation of an important area such as the area of financial institutions, both in the sphere of their strengthening but also in the sphere of their supervision. Namely, on the functioning of these financial institutions, these are some important, important long-term goals of the Republic of Croatia such as economic development, the creation of domestic capital sources, we know how much we are discussing selling the country to foreigners. One of the reasons why this is happening more or less is precisely the absence of a domestic strong, domestic capital market, capital sources, but also this area is important because of one for the citizens of an extremely directly important segment, which is a segment of the pension system that for future pensioners, those who are today starting a career through voluntary or compulsory pension funds, not only this existing solidarity fund but these other two pillars that also fall within the sphere of supervision. In order to make it more clear to those who are laymen, who are not experts, I will say that any disturbance, or any incident, for example. in those pension funds in those two, which are included in those two pillars, it can cause bankruptcy or failure of the Peace Fund, and that means for some future pensioners who are now investing in these funds to ensure a peaceful age can mean major problems and difficulties. Not a peaceful but completely insecure age despite the fact that some of these funds are guaranteed by the state as well as others. We know she guaranteed it, so we know how they did, how people had their time. This is why it is extremely important to regulate the area of supervision of financial institutions in the right and the best possible way. In an explanation of how this Law took place, the Proposer called for the conclusions of the 2002 Parliament and the government's 2004 conclusions. The promoter also calls for trends I would say European practices that go towards unified supervision or integrated supervision of all financial institutions. There are three key models: fully integrated, partially integrated and specialised. Croatia currently has not much debt and not exactly I would say too positive, but fortunately neither negative experience with a system of specialised supervision. In particular, the bank is supervised, the banking system via the National Bank, the pension system via Hagen, insurance companies have a special agency and so on, not to mention. The very fact that the trend in Europe, to go to an integrated system, is not enough and can not be enough for us in this House to accept one completely so easily, I would say an undeveloped law that should provide supposedly modern and more quality supervision as it says in the explanation, and as we have heard from the proposings at the outset. The speed that this is doing, or the speed that the law is supposed to happen, is in itself an important fact that warns that something about this is wrong, but it warns of something else. That something else is hiding behind the alleged desire to make everything more modern and quality in this area. Kolars say that behind this is the individual interest of people who have prepared this law in part in the working group and who should tomorrow sit on all-powerful three and five chairs in this agency. I'm talking three or five because these three or five people or women or individuals are going to have this law, as well as how the system is arranged is boundless power. A power such as neither the President of the State nor the Prime Minister together. The power to manage, and without almost anyone in due time, accounts for it with all domestic capital sources. And more than that. It is something that in itself warns that we must approach this topic and this law that has far-reaching consequences in a different way. First of all, not by emergency procedure. Secondly, after an expert debate that should have preceded this, which you trust me to believe, despite the fact that the previous government was late in preparation, and this government is also late in preparing for a system change that did not happen anyway. It happened in some circles more or less professional but certainly closed and exclusive. No one has asked and no one has allowed people with some experience to project the consequences of this law. I said one example of a future pension payment to see what should be done and how, how to make a mistake? In fact, the best criticism and warning that this bill is wrong in a broader context is the very conclusions of the 2002 proposal. It is therefore necessary that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in cooperation with all these supervisory agencies which so far operate in this specialised system, prepare a programme of supervision of financial institutions and financial markets on a consolidated basis. But no one saw that program. Neither did the Croatian Parliament, nor did the Croatian government see, nor did the professional circles that I say were minimal but discussed. We have received the law and it is only one law that is very superficial and very irresponsiblely supposed to answer all these questions. The Council concludes that the programme should contain a proposal for the necessary changes in the legislative framework. In addition to this Law, there is a whole series of laws that should be changed due to changes in the system. But there isn't. The programme should contain an institutional structure, structure and organisation of the Agency. There isn't that either. We are going to pass a law that should enter into force in two months, and it is not known what the agency should look like in that technical, organisational sense, which means it will not even work when the law enters into force. It is then said that the programme should contain the necessary human and material resources. The material resources here are defined in this law but very superficially and vaguely. Those who know how, for example, regulated funding should have a very concrete observation that it is quite unclear whether those 0.8% of the promiscation goes to pension funds from companies managing assets and incomes of companies managing pension funds or assets and pension funds. Which doesn't matter at all because it's very big financial differences. As far as the human resources are concerned, other than the fact that some see a very good position for themselves, no one has discussed which category, or what qualifications these people should be, in both professional and moral terms, given the limitless power that I warn them that by sitting on these chairs in the agency, they will get. It is said that the programme should contain a transitional period. We have transitional and final provisions, but there is no transitional period in them. The law enters into force on 1.1.2006 and ends. Everything has to start working. That's impossible. That and layman knows it's simply impossible because it's highly complex and complicated processes. The programme should, and this Law also does not contain deadlines for the realization of certain phases. Reorganisations and changes, switching to a new system. Levels of mutual cooperation and exchange of information between supervisory institutions. This is where it only comes in when we put it all on the pile, then that communication will be better because it doesn't exist now. And finally this programme should, which also does not contain defining the holders of individual jobs. My colleagues and colleagues, I appeal to your responsibility. I think that this has gone quite lightly through the government and that no one who should have dealt with the seriousness of the consequences that can cause this kind of adoption and then the application of this law. In principle, we do not object in the SDP Club to an integrated system that is promoted through this law, but we cannot generally vote for this law because the way it is proposed and everything it does not contain with what it contains, and we think that in the very articles of this law should be corrected extremely unacceptable and dangerous. This isn't just the thesis coming from an opposition political club. This is the thesis you can hear if you are interested in and can check with any well-intentioned individual, an expert in this area, who knows something about European practice, who knows something about the system in Great Britain or Hungary and who also well knows this system that currently operates in Croatia. We can't be unhappy with what we have today, because other than the poor functioning of the Directorate for the Control of Insurance Companies, other supervisions with certain problems, but with the completion, with the possible repairs functioning quite well. And let me warn at the end of a few very important parts of this law. So, pure legal text, which is extremely problematic. The most problematic is the period of application of the law's entry into force. I already said that. It's impossible, we can make any decision we want, but this agency can't function 1.1. Second. De facto while the agency has five members, three members have the possibility of making decisions on everything even though it is said that the two-thirds majority of three out of five is not a two-thirds majority, there is a discrepancy within this law. Second. These three members do not have clearly defined, i.e. they have over-determined obligations, over-indications, too many diapazon jobs that they have to do despite professional services that will be organised we do not know how it is not seen, that is what is missing. They won't be able to do that. To find three geniuses, three of the most brilliant men in the world, they won't be able to do it. Second. They're doing it without any supervision. The advice that should function within this agency is only an advisory body and it is one of the biggest mistakes in this law. What would be minimum if, by example, some advice in HAGENA or National Bank advice were installed here. However, the fact is that the main author of this law is one of those who has been sitting in the advice so far, that he knows how much he's moved and veered I would say that the administrations of these agencies would do better, so obviously he doesn't want to see himself at the top, that he doesn't want to produce himself that kind of problem, he wants to do what he wants to do, manage this country without political elections and without political support but without the right basis. One mistake, three individuals in this agency can cause far-reaching consequences both citizens and the whole state, and therefore we cannot vote for this law. That is why we ask that either conduct the debate in the first reading or simply withdraw and make all these advances based on the Assembly's conclusion should be made and then discussed and set out to amend the financial institutions' supervision system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46814	Thank you. State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46815	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here, I'd just like to say a few words about this law. It is this law that solves the problem of the control of non-banking, financial institutions that has been divided into several institutions in Croatia so far. In addition, there are several other sectors that have not been covered at all, which will be covered by this law, which are, above all, liening companies that we know to have exceptional growth after 2002 after certain monetary measures have been adopted and, in that sense, it is also necessary to regulate them. Furthermore, the power of this institution is no greater than the power of other agencies that are also under the authority of this respected House. The Croatian National Bank, the Competition Protection Agency, all have the same level and same power. There's no greater power here. Furthermore, about working groups. Over a hundred people have worked on this law in the last year, various institutions are involved, of course all representatives of existing supervisory institutions including the Croatian National Bank and so on. About pension funds. This law will allow pension funds to be properly regulated and covered because pension funds, as you know, and management companies are owned by financial conglomerates, will allow this supervisory authority to supervise non-bank financial institutions which, as you know, grow extremely quickly and there is no united supervision for which this law and this agency are allowed. As far as funding is concerned, zero-eight-promise funding will go from companies, not funds. So it won't burden the pensioners. It's about advice. The advice is standard, and in some ways it is about the presence of members of the business community who will be independent and thus enable progress and the possibility of the regulation that will be applied by the Agency in this respect being advanced and in line with the needs of supervision of non-bank financial institutions and noting the reduction of risk in the non-banking financial sector which is extremely important and which is currently not supervised. Furthermore, I would say that this law is very important and related to compliance with the European Union in the sense that both with screening and for negotiations on these chapters, such an agency is necessary to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46816	Thank you. The HNS club, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46817	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Mrs. Antunovic actually said most of what I wanted to say. In fact, it is difficult to speak against the intention of this law itself, because European models say there are more solutions. We have so far had practically these three agencies plus the CNB as an institution that controls the banking system, and now it is proposed by this law to convert practically these three agencies or two agencies to one commission to move on to the model of one agency. There are such solutions, however, I fear if the law is passed by emergency procedure and if all of this is implemented in the way we know it, which is the hill, the valley, that we will actually have the opposite effect of what we want and that is why it would be good that at the very least this law provides for it to be implemented gradually. So, if one agency wants to prepare it because it is the way it is proposed and everything it does not contain with what it contains, and we think that in the very articles of this law, it should be corrected extremely unacceptable and dangerous. This isn't just the thesis coming from an opposition political club. This is the thesis you can hear if you are interested in and can check with any well-intentioned individual, an expert in this area, who knows something about European practice, who knows something about the system in Great Britain or Hungary and who also well knows this system that currently operates in Croatia. We can't be unhappy with what we have today, because other than the poor functioning of the Directorate for the Control of Insurance Companies, other supervisions with certain problems, but with the completion, with the possible repairs functioning quite well. And let me warn at the end of a few very important parts of this law. So, pure legal text, which is extremely problematic. The most problematic is the period of application of the law's entry into force. I already said that. It's impossible, we can make any decision we want, but this agency can't function 1.1. Second. De facto while the agency has five members, three members have the possibility of making decisions on everything even though it is said that the two-thirds majority of three out of five is not a two-thirds majority, there is a discrepancy within this law. Second. These three members do not have clearly defined, i.e. they have over-determined obligations, over-indications, too many diapazon jobs that they have to do despite professional services that will be organised we do not know how it is not seen, that is what is missing. They won't be able to do that. To find three geniuses, three of the most brilliant men in the world, they won't be able to do it. Second. They're doing it without any supervision. The advice that should function within this agency is only an advisory body and it is one of the biggest mistakes in this law. What would be minimum if, by example, some advice in HAGENA or National Bank advice were installed here. However, the fact is that the main author of this law is one of those who has been sitting in the advice so far, that he knows how much he's moved and veered I would say that the administrations of these agencies would do better, so obviously he doesn't want to see himself at the top, that he doesn't want to produce himself that kind of problem, he wants to do what he wants to do, manage this country without political elections and without political support but without the right basis. One mistake, three individuals in this agency can cause far-reaching consequences both citizens and the whole state, and therefore we cannot vote for this law. That is why we ask that either conduct the debate in the first reading or simply withdraw and make all these advances based on the Assembly's conclusion should be made and then discussed and set out to amend the financial institutions' supervision system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46818	Thank you. The HSS Club, a respected representative of Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46819	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Ministry, Government, colleagues and colleagues. For a long time, the obligations of the Croatian Parliament that we have taken in previous sessions on the need to unify and unify supervision of financial services on a consolidated basis and on this subject there are conclusions of the Croatian Parliament which bound the Government in one way to come up with a proposal that we will discuss and which is right in front of us. In fact, the world’s experiences and conditions and this domain are different in view of the countries we want to compare with. 27% of countries have one supervisory institution, 7% of countries have 2 supervisory institutions and these banks and the capital market one and the insurance companies the other. Two supervisory institutions with a slightly different content have 13%, and two supervisory institutions, again with different combinations, have 9% of countries, but 3 and more supervisory institutions have as many as 44% of countries. This tells us that the solution that we now have is quite satisfactory and that there was no reason for this bill to be followed by an urgent procedure. Especially when we know that in, precisely in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it is clearly defined which topics and what laws we can and must adopt by emergency procedure. It took far more time to carry out such activities in these same countries as well. Here's one table where the average number of years to do the job is from 0.7 to 2 full years. If in this way and in such short time, we make a change and unite the supervision of the non-banking sector it will be a record over the record because I have a chart on which it lasted from half to 3 months to 3 years in different countries from world to Canada. And we're going to take the famous or infamous first place on that chart. The basic issues to be regulated by this law would say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided at its session of 27 October 2004 to initiate the process of unifying the supervisory institutions of the non-banking financial sector and the decision requires the Ministry of Finance to submit to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 30 September 2005 a final draft of the law and legal act to implement the process of uniting the supervisory institutions of the non-bank financial sector into one agency. Therefore, the decision is to unite only supervision of non-banking financial institutions while supervision of banks would remain in the Croatian National Bank's control and supervision of savings and credit associations in the Ministry of Finance's intelligence. On 15 November 2004, the finance minister made a decision on the appointment of a working group to draft a bill from officials of the Ministry of Finance and all supervisory institutions, but not on the proposal of those institutions. It is indicative that from no supervisory institution that should be connected, which is the HAGENA Commission and the Ministry's working group, the minister has not appointed leaders but their deputies. Later, following the appointment of the Director of the Supervisory Directorate of the Insurance Society during this year, a member of the Working Group becomes the newly elected Director of the Directorate, while the President of the Commission, the Director of HAGENA, remains outside the working group. Is this the reason why the Commission and HAGENA are responsible for their work to the Croatian Parliament which appoints its officials, while the Directorate is responsible for its work to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is appointed by the Director of the Directorate. That's what I think we can logically conclude. The Ministry of Finance is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the last day of the deadline, i.e. On 30 September 2005, she submitted the text of the draft Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency with the Final Proposal for the Law. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted that proposal at its session on 13 October 2005 and delivered it to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. The reasons for passing laws by emergency procedure are absurd. In view of the above, it is stated that the reference of this law by emergency procedure to the same Government of the Republic of Croatia meets the deadlines, which is set out in its own decision to initiate the procedure by the joint competent institutions since October 2004, which also takes into account the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the need to unite the supervisory institutions of the non-banking sector from July 2002. Neither the first nor this quote in this argument is entirely correct. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 27 October 2004 as before and said, it tasks the Ministry of Finance to submit by September 2005 a final proposal for a legal act to implement the process of uniting the supervisory institutions of the non-banking financial sector into one agency. It is not stated in the decision that this is also the deadline until which the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to send to the parliamentary procedure, and if it is the date when the Government of the Republic of Croatia intended to send it to the parliamentary procedure, why the Ministry of Finance did not make a proposal before and delivered it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in due time to debate and refer to further procedures. The second allegation is not true, because again, as was said in the July 2002 conclusion, there is another conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the same subject since 12 June 2003, after being delivered to it a programme of unification, which reads: "A proposal for a programme of supervision of financial institutions and financial markets on a consolidated basis is accepted." And below 2. "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to establish a permanent committee to coordinate the regulation of financial services as soon as possible." We do not believe the promoter was familiar with this second conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. The absurdity of the adoption of this law by emergency procedure is even higher, as I said earlier, in the provisions of Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which reads: "Extreme law can only be passed by emergency procedure when the interests of defence and other particularly justified state reasons are required, that is, in order to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy." What are particularly justified state reasons, i.e. what are possible or existing disorders that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is seeking to prevent or eliminate by including this law by means of an emergency procedure? All three supervisory institutions, as far as I know, whose unification is proposed to work normally. The report for the past year has been delivered to the Croatian Parliament or the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it has been accepted, the situation in the financial system is almost best under their supervision from now on, so what imposes on the urgent adoption of this law, we must ask ourselves, and we must eventually seek some answers. Regardless of the above, since the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposed proposed a number of amendments, which will be addressed to the proposal for this law, are also high and low-level and half-determined. Furthermore, if it is already going into unification, the HSS wants it to be implemented in a quality way, i.e. that all organisational, technical, personnel and personnel preparations are carried out before the formal unification itself, and not simply from three institutions create three different sectors, three different locations, and then to enjoy walking who knows how long the problems of functioning are solved which will inevitably lead to the neglect of the basic functions of these agencies. The main difference between this proposal and the amendment of the HSS and the proposal for the law of the Government of Croatia is primarily in the direction of the new Commission's advice. While, in the proposal of the Government of the Republic, the Council of the Commission is merely an advisory body in the proposal of the HSS and its amendments, the Council has a governing role to play in determining the policies involved in the action of the Commission and the strategic decision-making process, while operational decisions would be taken by the Commission's administration. In our opinion, the advice should play a certain role or should not be. The provisions in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the advice of the Agency give an opinion of expert and scientific advice for the development of supervisory practice sound good, but what if no one asks or needs those opinions. It can happen that the advice can never theoretically and never meet. The difference in the proposal for a way of financing the commission under the Croatian government and HSS law is also different. The financing of a new supervisory institution from the State budget's resources from the property and income of supervisory entities and compensation for the services provided and the competence of the supervisory institution's part-round, however, exists and these are important. The Croatian Government's proposal provides for a compensation of up to 0.8% on the burden of supervisory entities, with the possibility that if the unpaid fee is not sufficient to cover the expenditure, the lack of funds is compensated from the state budget. In the event that the unpaid fee in the total revenues of the Agency exceeds the expenditure, the surplus shall be the revenue for the following calendar year. In other words, the burden of funding of the agency will easily fall on the burden of the participants. The HSS proposal goes from a ratio of at least 51% to a burden on the state budget and a maximum of 49% on the burden on control entities. As has been said in advance, the current commission and HAGENA are being financed entirely on the burden of the state budget, and only the directorate is being financed on the burden of surveillance entities. Since the expenditure of these three supervisory institutions in 2004 amounted to 25.3 million kuna, the expenditure of the Directorate amounted to 4.2 million kuna, i.e. only 16% on the burden of control entities. We are afraid that this approach would be a very devastating funding that would quickly fall on the burden we feel a state budget in full or in the most part. In this way, a quality balance would be established that would allow for all those relations resulting from such funding. What is also important, as already mentioned in this law, are activities in so-called “the law. ” a transitional period in order to avoid the destruction and operation of a new supervisory institution in a long time, neglecting its basic function and mission. Under the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Agency will adopt its statutes within 60 days of the date of application of the law and submit it to the Croatian Assembly for confirmation, and within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the Statute, acts listed by that law will be adopted. This practically means that almost all the following year, the agency and its employees will do their own work, not their own. Under the proposal for an amendment to be tabled by the HSS on the statutes, dealings with the statutes and organisation of internal acts would be dealt with by a small group of people, mostly members of the new administration, and everyone else would normally do their current work. So, according to us in the HSS, this law aims to achieve an effective process of uniting the content of three supervisory institutions into one supervisory institution in a transitional period of one year to two years, to do all the pre-productions that are necessary and which will not interfere with the implementation of its law of the prescribed tasks after the start of work. This is an HSS proposal that I think would be helpful in reorganising and changing supervision of financial services. Although there is no clear foothold in other countries' experiences about such a way of working, we in the HSS have nothing against uniform surveillance and roads in this direction, but we warn of all these dangers that I have put forward and that we will change our amendments, that is, to make the law more quality and not to produce those effects that no one wants. The fact is that the work of supervisory institutions at this point is quite satisfactory, that the situation on the financial market is relatively stable and there is no reason to rush through the adoption of this Law, so HSS would, of course, suggest that this goes to another reading. But since it's an emergency procedure, we in the HSS are going to make amendments in this sense that I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46820	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46821	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative, Mr. Roic said there are no valid reasons for the urgent adoption of this law. This is not true because the current situation in the area of supervision of financial services is quite dysfunctional, too broad and at least complicated. There's a lot of illogicality. In fact, if you look at it, let's say, the Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia, it has expenditure per employee of 240 thousand kuna. At the Pension Fund and Insurance Control Agency for 2004, the cost per employee is as much as 380 thousand kuna. The insurance company's supervisory directorate has a expenditure of 275,000 kuna. I think it's really illogical that needs to be prevented in some way and I think this new approach to control regulation will strengthen the stability of the system and prevent these payments from being paid to employees in supervisory financial institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46822	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46823	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. So about integration and the number of financial institutions, I would just say, so the distinguished representative mentioned that more than 44% of the countries have 2 and more supervisory institutions in the financial sector. So, in this case, Croatia will also have 2 when this Law is adopted, therefore, institutions for supervision. These are primarily the Croatian National Bank which will oversee banks and, therefore, this Agency, which this respected House should establish through this Law. So we're going to have two agencies, which is consistent with the best practices of all countries. Furthermore, funding, I think I am also in the opening statement, I would say, in the future, anything less than possible on the burden of the state budget. Therefore, to be financed from the funds of non-banking financial institutions that we know have and, therefore, large profits. They contribute to their queens on the one hand, and, on the other hand, they have sufficient grounds for having the property to support the regulator that will ensure, therefore, that inside the financial system they all operate, so that they are profitable. Which is not only in the interest of Croatian citizens but is also in the interest of these institutions, as this will in some way ensure their long-term continuity. Thus, this Law will by no means question the continuity of supervision. The continuity will continue, therefore, to be maintained in line with the existing agency. But, of course, it is necessary, therefore, to provide a legal basis for the agency to go, therefore, with all its affairs. Including personnel and technical and any other changes. As regards the task force, I would only point out that three current institutions were involved in the task force by people from their highest positions. It is, therefore, Mr. Šulenta, Mr. Letinić and Mr. Vrljić who are members of the boards and agencies and Mr. Vrljić as Director of the Insurance Directorate. In this way, of course, the Ministry of Finance would not dare, therefore, to work such an important law without their help and without their opinion. Of course, what I would say is that, in the Avis of the European Commission, too, it is recommended that Croatia joins the supervision of non-banking financial institutions. I note once again, therefore, this Law will include institutions, non-banking financial institutions that have not been included so far. First of all, therefore, it is about leasing companies that have a major growth in activity in the last few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46824	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46825	Your Honor, Mr. President. The secretary of state said this law will not question continuity. On the contrary, we hereby establish continuity and supervision, as the HDZ lady said. So make a deal. HDZ claims the same as I say there is no continuity. That the system needs to be done effectively to start operating this system. So, we've got a piano with this law, we've got a piano, we just need to find a pianist now who's gonna do it. That would be the shortest answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46826	Don't shoot a pianist. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46827	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen from the Ministry of Finance. We are facing an ambitious project to create a Croatian mega-age agency to oversee the entire non-banking sector. According to the opening statement, this agency should monitor the flow of money that is indeed extensive. So, investment funds of 8 and a half billion kuna, formerly converted into holdings of 4 billion kuna, traffic on the Zagreb and Varazdin stock exchange of some 95 billion kuna, 4 compulsory pension funds with assets of 10 billion kuna, 24 insurance companies with assets of 14.4 billion kuna, 15 leasing companies with assets of 15 billion kuna, etc. All in all the people who will be in this agency, the people who will lead it should control the capital at the same time as the Croatian State budget. Of course, we wonder if it will really be effective, we wonder if this kind of unification will produce the right results. It is clear that the development of the economy also means the development of the financial sector. That, with the development of the financial sector, we must have far better institutions to monitor. But the big question is whether this model is really effective, whether it will be effective and what will happen to other legal acts that should improve the work of this agency. Such an institution should therefore have powers, strength and size almost as former financial police, so that it is indeed an effective institution. Better supervision will not be achieved by inflation of institutions rather than by the effectiveness of legal implementation. What is particularly important, however, is that, at the same time as we have the unification of the institution for the supervision of all these institutions, or economic operators dealing with financial services, on the other hand, a number of separate laws are being prepared, according to our information, to regulate private types of economic services, financial services. So, we will have separate laws for leasing, separate insurance laws and so on, while on the other hand we are going to a large system of uniting supervision of these entirely separate and different financial services. In this regard, we are interested in two very specific questions. Is it one thing for this Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency today, tomorrow to be responsible for monitoring micro-credit institutions and the other for the entire system of savings-credit cooperatives? We believe that savings-credit cooperatives as deposit institutions should be in the same group with banks and should be monitored together with banks by the Croatian National Bank. In all the countries to which we respect the structure of financial institutions is the following. We have a central, central bank, we have deposit institutions, so banks and deposit savings institutions, so savings banks, savings banks, savings-credit cooperatives, cooperatives, housing savings, postal savings, etc. And thirdly, we have non-depositary financial institutions, these are insurance companies, pension funds, investment funds,... houses, microcredit facilities and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If this Agency refers to non-depositary institutions, then it is okay, but from such an explanation it is not clear whether the savings and credit unions are in the jurisdiction of this Agency, which in our court is bad or in the jurisdiction of the Croatian National Bank, which is good in our court. On the other hand, it is unclear where microcredit institutions are in all of this. Are they really here under this Agency, is she monitoring them, or will she be under some new body again? Without such clear answers, we cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46828	Thank you. The HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46829	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I well remember somewhere in the first half of 1997 when pension reform and the introduction of a second pillar of pension reform were under discussion. I remember well that with the insistence then in the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia to go to a public debate on the issue, whether in the union or not, but then the government brought it somewhere in the 7th month and the debate that was promised in the autumn, that debate never happened. I remember how this went on, the introduction of pension reform itself and the basic guarantee of the second pillar was the supervision of money, the supervision of the management of savings money, or the user of the second pillar of pension insurance. So, I'm talking about the institution now. Therefore, the transparent surveillance by Hagen was one of the basic arguments that should have given confidence to second-degree users to support, i.e. to feel security for their money being allocated to the second pillar of pension insurance and indeed Hagen has established a daily system of control of pension funds' operations and we must publicly acknowledge that what is working in Croatia and that we need to preserve it. It implies that at 4:00 p.m., they know in Hagen what the trust fund sold and what he bought during the day. At that point, prices of these assets in purchase and sale are controlled, which means that by the afternoon or at the latest the next morning they would know that some of the funds committed a violation, he bought property that he had not been allowed to buy or sell by law at a price that did not correspond to the market price. In this bill of law, we have the need to regulate supervision and some other institutions, savings or something like that, I would express myself in the public language, financial wells where there is no day-to-day surveillance for now. Secondly, there is no legal basis for setting up day-to-day surveillance. On this basis, the key question arises, should surveillance be combined, supervision of different financial institutions before more quality supervision is established in these monetary institutions which do not have the obligation to establish current quality supervision? So how can we connect something where different rules of the game exist? That's what I want to trouble you with. Surely, the requirement to look from the position of citizens would require better quality supervision and would be justified according to the savings. However, experts say it would collect savings operations which would naturally harm clients, but the important thing is that in the system of compulsory pension savings, daily supervision is logical because savings is also mandatory. I choose whether I'm going to go to the savings bank, whether I'm going to be provided with life insurance in some insurance company, that's my choice, and I'm taking the risk. However, pension insurance in the second pillar is compulsory pension insurance and there is a criterion that, in the event of anything that would happen in these pension funds, the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds has prescribed that the state is responsible for the property, so there is a completely different approach than in insurance companies. The point is, at the very least, that there is a need to control the pension funds and ensure that it stays at the level at which it is now, not to use that level of supervision for all equally. It is important to monitor that different regulations and different investment limits for savings-credit cooperatives where we have a total liberal, according to insurance companies, are somewhat less liberal than pension funds. The bottom line is, through the implementation of this law, to ensure that pension funds of the savings and insurance companies are seen separately, i.e. selectively, not according to one single game, which, I must admit, I am not reading from this bill. What is similar to all of them is the way they express return on property, but it is too little to make all of them even under the same criteria. The question should certainly be warned whether it will be possible to find sufficient quality experts who know how to control pension funds and insurance companies and savings-credit cooperatives. In fact, at a time when Hagen began the market, there were almost no people who knew anything about the business of pension funds, and it was all from the beginning and it was all very thorough and very responsible. Now that we've raised people, we're going to gut them into some kind of agency, or create a hybrid. The question is who and how will control the payoff? Namely, savings-credit cooperatives are aimed at taking more interest and giving less interest, i.e. to earn money. I think that's the same goal when it comes to insurance companies, including pension funds, but in the case of savings-credit cooperatives and insurance companies, it's none of my business, so it's my concern and my personal risk where I'm going to save in a savings-credit society or where the insurance company is going to be provided. I can also troublesome the ministry behind this bill. It is not without reason that HAGENA is run under the Ministry of Economy because the Ministry of Economy has a pension insurance portfolio and this savings has primarily a social character while a savings and insurance company is not the case. I admit it to the insurance company there's something more social than a savings-credit cooperative, but there's a reason why the state encourages me to invest in them. I'd like to say this finally next. In front of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club, we would be very happy to see this as a first reading regardless of what might be an important law for controlling the non-financial sector. That's not enough reason to rush this. And I'd love to, so I'd like to see Hagen experts on this. After all, they are in a high position in this country, in high rank and are not without meaning and we cannot ignore them, and I would like to make clear through the proposal for this law this selective approach given the diversity of financial and monetary institutions entering this system. Finally, we have no objections to the proposal's intention to set up a surveillance system. If anything is needed in Croatia, then supervision must be necessary over many segments of financial business in this society. However, we do not have to do it this quickly, or we do not have to wait for the last moment to pass by an emergency procedure that has very far-reaching consequences and could, if we go carelessly into it and endanger some good vibrations related to another pension column that has gone to safety. I'm not talking about the satisfaction and dissatisfaction of the pension reform but I'm talking about the good vibrations that went away because there was quality supervision over the second pension column. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46830	Thank you very much. I report that at 11.53 p.m., it's time for a ten-minute debate. Continuing the session of the Committee on Gender Equality in the Hall of Eugen Quaternik at 13.30 p.m. and the Committee on Legislatives also at 13.30 p.m. in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić. Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46831	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs! Well, first of all, I'd like to remove just one clue that has come up in the last two debates. So this law does not regulate savings-credit cooperatives. Until the adoption of a new Law on Savings and Credit Cooperatives, which is in the government's plan for next year, the Ministry of Finance will continue to be in charge of overseeing savings-credit cooperatives. Therefore, deposit institutions are not mixed here with non-deposit institutions. Furthermore, regarding HAGENA or the supervision of the second pension pillar, I, in front of the Government or the future agency, am responsible for saying that this law will not endanger the second pension pillar, as it will continue to continue with the quality supervision that has been carried out in the framework of HAGENA, and in this sense, the future agency will certainly in no way question the second pillar funds in which all future pensioners and I am personally saving, and I am certainly in the interest of having that second pillar brought to life and that, at the moment of retirement, I am getting out of retirement. Furthermore, the emergency procedure remains in place when the law is to be passed by an emergency procedure and certainly again, so HAGENA is fully and HAGENA experts have been involved in the drafting of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46832	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46833	In fact, it is incorrect not to threaten to violate the quality supervision of pension funds or, primarily, the second pillar of compulsory pension funds. It is true that united supervision and the agency itself will not violate this surveillance, but the way it wants to do so will not only undermine it but will significantly compromise the supervision of pension funds and respect for the laws but also as they satisfy the interests and progress of those who are members of those funds. There will be a halt in the functioning of this agency due to the hasty and the inability to do such a big job within such a short time, and this can have really serious and far-reaching consequences on the quality of capitalisation of what future pensioners single out into compulsory and voluntary pension funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46834	The HDZ representative club is a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46835	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Here, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I want to point out our argument and view of this situation today and the way out of this situation without, of course, entering the rights and attitudes of any individual or club. In order to explain to the public the current situation and, in some way, the introduction to the present situation, the need for a solution to such a situation should be pointed out that in the first phase of the 1990s from the transition of the socialist market, as it was called or self-government socialism, because there was no market in the market economy, there was a change in all sectors, and of course there was a change in the financial sector that made and the market only then re-established, the entities on it, legislation and supervision. Why am I pointing this out? So just reminding ourselves of the problems that have arisen in that time, and in that period, in fact, many problems arise for the application and formation and functioning of such a market. We remember the problem of financial engineering, bank problems, bankruptcy, savings-credit cooperatives, etc. and it seems to me that all of them were the common denominator of the problem of controlling jobs and functioning at that time. Today's total financial market is estimated to be roughly somewhere, they say it's about 270 billion kuna and the banking sector is about 225 billion kuna. So, very little, forty billion kuna makes the other so-called. the non-banking sector. These data are necessary precisely to see how much money is controlled in the area because we will see that this banking sector is controlled through the CNB mechanism, so the largest amount of capital that is controlled in this society remains in this area. Here, so far common to the overall financial sector, and banking and non-banking is actually this risk management problem and it is current and then today and also in the future and here we are expressing concern individually and we see that, in fact, possibly fear of such risks still remembering these bad times can be current. Here are the reasons why in the world, in fact, that market world that has a little more experience than we do in that area, there are different models of managing these risks. Mostly there are three models that apply, it says it's institutional or targeted, functional, not to explain what it is to whom it's done, but it's more and more recently being applied so-called. a consolidated model which is then applied to many countries and increasingly finds its application. There is a united, we hear and we also point out, different united models in the world that control the overall financial market, there are those divided that control separately, and two that control especially banking, especially this other non-banking sector. The specificity of the Croatian market has already been said, in the introduction, which is why I gave that introduction to clarify that it is actually the so-called the banking system in Croatia because the largest capital is located in the sector and all those problems, of course, arising from such a banking system. In our conditions, this system is becoming increasingly visible, producing, or resulting in so-called I don't explain to the universal bank now that it's back on time what it's all about inside but it's coming up next to all of those so-called content that's coming up. The universal bank, some new content also arises, especially by apostrophe of the problem of leasing which has a strong impact on financial flows again. And that when we see what's in the line of duty, the external debt, and when we see their content, then it's actually the biggest part of that Leasing is in the application or sale of the car with everything that's of course following that dam. Therefore, there is a newspaper that now belongs to the non-banking sector, and owners are either actually under the auspices of banks. The question of perception is raised and the part of which, of course, is then to be put under control and otherwise controlled in every sense. Because such a situation is for us a newspaper, I say the market is gradually stalking, forming a walk, and we need to respond to that situation. We have already pointed out, we point out once again that the reasons for the adoption of this Law are precisely the problems in this banking sector and not the banking sector with all these segments. And secondly, in fact, the Parliament had then, no matter how in 2002, concluded the need for unification. Now I can't enter on behalf of the club why, until now, or when I should have, but I'm simply finding that fact and I'm saying that it could have been accessed. This new agency system would actually cover three agencies so far, three institutions, so from now on, about five levels of supervision, would be three levels of supervision, these three agencies are now either directorates or as they were all called, which would be united in the agency would remain HMB in the control of banks and would remain the Ministry of Finance in control of savings credit cooperatives. Here are the three levels in our assessment would be more effective and, of course, they will suffer from certain problems and stalking, but we believe that this problem of unification should be approached as soon as possible and that this kind of unification is essentially the security of the financial, not the banking market. The reasons for the possible doubts that arise, they can always be human resources, or human potentials, and I keep that problems and congestion in the control itself should not be and will not be, and that the problem and control issues can also be asked for days depending on human resources. Well we saw in three of those so far levels of control that actually all three in different ways satisfied that function that we had so far. I also want and it is necessary to point out that, in fact, given the level of controls that we have so far and the number of subjects we have had, we have had different legislation, so more laws that regulate separately individual sectors, both functioning and supervision within. Here, this kind of unification will, according to our assessment, cause the necessary and necessary in the next time and probably both the accelerated and the unification of legislation in this area that will regulate in a new and different way, we keep absolutely more quality than it has ever been. Around the agency itself, around the funding agency we have heard, so far the goal is not to cost the state budget more than it is so far and that in the first phase we already have a transition from about 1/3 to users who will be controlled and in the next period to gradually move on to it, and I could freely say the market financing that is, of course, under the control of the Croatian Parliament because the reports will come here and the financial plans will also come here and that Parliament will have the instrumentation, control their budget, or plan, that is to be adopted financially and ultimately and then deliberately and to control the height of these funds, so that this instrument remains under the control of this House. That's why I point out that this surveillance, the future supervision that the agency and its administration and the amendment that we've given as the Committee on Finance, can now set up some of these dilemmas, the doubts that are here to be addressed in walking. That's the problem, which is when, if someone that I'm resigning or possibly in this area, so I guess you can't even name someone who's already been legally punished for violations in this particular area. For example, in banks or any sector, or not in the financial sector, and equally so that, later on, if so through its work, it would eventually commit such an offence that it would not be able to enjoy any compensation that would follow. So we think that this can be solved now in walking, necessarily solved at these two levels and then there would be no doubt. Those doubts that were raised about supervision may, on advice, be regulated in different ways, but we believe that this advice will be chosen from the most professional people to be able to contribute to the management of risk control or management and that composition proposed there is also heard by different opinions and earlier than the various entities but we believe that this one can optimally satisfy or ensure, ensure the stability and security of the sector, not the financial sector it oversees. Applicable from 1. 1. Of course, it can cause doubts with all the possible consequences, possibly the consequences, but we believe that the current institutions will continue or most employees will normally do their part of the job, and that this harmonisation with the law can be carried out in that time, of course very quickly and speedily, and therefore we believe that the adoption of this law will not compromise the stability of the financial system, although in the future, after these first initial, possible stalkings, i.e. to ensure much greater stability of such a market, which is the goal and adoption of such a law. Therefore, we support and propose the adoption of such a law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46836	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Nenadić. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46837	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. As I said before, the current situation in the field of supervision of financial services is quite dysfunctional, too broad and at least complicated. There are 4 financial institutions that oversee financial services and markets, which are the Securities Commission, the Pension Fund Supervisory Agency and HAGENA, the insurance company supervisory directorate and the Croatian National Bank. In addition, the Ministry of Finance and, within the framework of the Financial System Administration, oversees the work of another 123 savings and credit cooperatives by the following year, when the Savings and Credit Cooperatives Act will be adopted. These financial institutions, in line with the growth and development of the financial services market and acted on different legal basiss of around 10 laws. In addition, these institutions are responsible for their work differently, some of the Parliament, some of the Government and some of the Parliament and the Government, which questioned the efficiency and coherence of the control of their work. By the new law of the first three mentioned agencies, therefore, the Securities Commission, the Pension Fund and Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Financial Services Supervisory Directorate, an independent, independent legal person responsible for the Croatian Assembly with fundamental objectives, which is: promoting and preserving the stability of the system and overseeing the legality of the supervision entities. The benefits of this united surveillance, which have already been seen in the countries where it is used, are significant, and I will only point out some. First, more professional human potentials unite. A better flow of information is enabled. Monitoring is standardised and efficiency is increased and the problem of competence is avoided. Another advantage is the creation of a single financial institution, which opens up the possibility of adopting a single Financial Services Act in due time. It will be a great relief in the application, monitoring and supervision and sanctioning of this matter because we now have about a dozen laws and even more accompanying regulations, regulations, regulations, decisions and the like. Furthermore, the implementation of this Act will not require additional budgetary resources, as the current way of financing will be taken over i.e. from the budget and the fees. So the same form and the same means from which the existing supervisory institutions were financed. The experience of countries where such joint supervision applies shows that the share of funding from the budget is reduced and that, by gradually strengthening and developing the financial market, the share of funding from supervisory entities is fully switched to financing. Finally, the unification of supervisory functions is primarily in the interest of institutions providing financial services and the development of the financial market and the interest of the Government that protects the stability of the financial system, I propose that this law be adopted in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46838	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46839	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency means uniting supervision in the non-banking sector. I can see from the debate so far that we've all said yes. And it's not a question of whether to bring the non-banking business together through the agency. And I don't think there's any doubt about you either in clubs. What we're very different about is that we're trying to see the way and the method of unification. And that's where we differ. We differ because the proposal by emergency procedure, the way the law applies from 1.1 next year, the way the unification will be carried out in the proposings means importance, means safety, means efficiency. For those of us who disagree with the proposal, neither the emergency procedure nor the way in which this law is implemented, it is considered to be a risk and uncertainty. So the law that next year's 1.1 and this emergency procedure differs. And it is certain that the implementation of the law with unscheduled proposals, with unscheduled implementation procedures in the coming year, will mean certain uncertainty. And why are we so different? Why are we so afraid? Well, we're afraid precisely because the introduction of supervisory institutions from 1995 to today has shown how much the lack of these supervisory functions have caused enormous crimes with enormous damage. Whether or not we talk about PIFs, are we going to talk about malfeasances, are we going to talk about the problems of the stability of the insurance market? But it is evident that under-organized and high-quality supervisory services have potentiated precisely those entrepreneurs who cannot bear the name entrepreneur but I would say more people who obviously wanted to use the market and I would say an unorganized market for their own personal illegal promotion. And that's why it's also such an important day the way and speed of carrying out these procedures. Therefore, in the very explanation of the law, insufficiently developed techniques of the Agency's work and functioning, the transitions of certain now supervisory bodies to whether the agency, the agency's directorate, are underdeveloped. It is underdeveloped and I would say a proposal for legislative activity next year which should also be in the non-banking sector because it is evident that certain legal solutions will bring together complete matter rather than be as segmentally worked out as they have so far. Therefore, the guarantee to all those on the financial market is not given to the quick introduction of the agency into life. The risk remains, the fear remains. And that's what we're conflicting about today. So my proposal to the promoter is to really try to understand once again that this hastened process, by pushing the procedure, tries to see if it will cause fear and anxiety among all serious entrepreneurs in 2006 and whether the interests of those who are not entrepreneurs will arise, but are speculators to abuse this mid-phase, this stalking of the Agency in 2006. And that's the point that we're different about. So it may really be possible to find a solution that, through the gradual introduction of the law through another reading, we try to develop certain dilemmas, and on the other hand, to try to work out the process of joining existing supervisory bodies. And it's obvious that if we've defined ourselves to two, two types of surveillance. One is banking through the National Bank and the other is the non-banking sector through this Agency that we also had to find a solution for credit, savings and credit cooperatives, not that they stay with the Ministry of Finance. I think it could have been found at this stage. Therefore, the adoption of the law would, but delay the application until it has been discussed, not to elaborate procedures to avoid all risks and any uncertainty among the responsible entrepreneurs. And maybe what we're different about, too, in the law itself, I think that's two points. One article is Articles 11 and 12 which discusses the relations of administration and advice. The proposer proposes advice as an advisory body. A part of us who thinks that the administration will have enormous power assesses that the advice should also have the ability to decide in strategically important points to sort of share that power between administration and advice and that, in this way, possibly I would say the problems that power can give management can be reduced through the importance of advice. Therefore, the view is that the advice should play a more decisive role, not just advisoryly. It's a subject that experts should hear about. We needed to see the pluses and the negatives so that we could somehow see which system was better. This is what we differ in the very points of this Law. I personally have a comment on Article 20 because I appreciate that we have now decided with a new solution and the adoption of the proposal for this law on a different way of financing supervisory functions in the non-banking sector and the non-banking market. Why? In the period until the end of this year, it is evident that most of the costs of funding supervisory functions were on the budget, and I would say maybe 20 per cent in the financial market itself. So that relationship was about 80:20 if not more on the burden I would say tax payers and on the burden of the budget, and less on participants in the financial market. The question remains whether this is the time when we could decide to transfer total funding to the economy. The next item is the Support Act and it is evident that we will be cutting support and that we will be looking for a stronger market orientation of our entrepreneurs in Croatia, that we will have to deny many support. This way to stimulate the arrival of the financial market, to help the economy in some way, without burdening it with the full cost of the financial market, we are now changing and transferring the cost of supervision to the economy. I have a feeling that we could take another two, three, maybe four years of this adjustment to European competition to bear the burden of budget supervision, not to transfer it to the economy, and in this way I would say financially burden the results of our economy's business, and we ourselves know that they will be a series of other activities that are related to compliance with the European Union bear that burden, not only through the reduction of support. We are speaking here and through the harmonisation of our acts with laws in the area of environmental protection, so perhaps one part of the burden should have been transferred to the state budget for the last three, four years. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46840	Thank you very much. It's up to the representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46841	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is unquestionable that the financial sector's situation is a very important element in the assessment of the overall state of the economy. Reforms in the sector are almost continuous, they simply continue on each other and represent one framework in which the overall economy is moving. Of course, the relationship between the banking sector and the non-banking sector is very important. In the last debate on the role and place of banks and the Law on Banks, we talked about the need and we concluded in this direction that it is necessary to carry out further reform in that part of the financial sector, which is that, given the experience in other countries, it is necessary to open the space and action of other smaller financial institutions not only banks that operate at a certain level in which competitiveness is almost in some way uncompetitive in content itself. Opening space for smaller financial institutions that monitor the needs of certain segments of society is something that is a visible need. Unfortunately, we still haven't changed the Banks Act and turned it into the Financial Institutions Act, in order to have that part, but a very important part of the financial market that has a very significant impact on all segments and financial markets and societies in general, given the needs of citizens and society in particular. Also in this segment that we are talking about today with the experiences of relatively short ones, the question is that we are in this market where there have been four levels of surveillance so far, what is the state of such a market, how this market has found a relationship in the needs of citizens, how it has found a relationship with the investment market, with the market for development, with the situation in the economy. What are the experiences gained from the day the financial market started in Croatia. It is unquestionable from the securities market to the pension market that it has simply strengthened such a way of activity in Croatia, that these activities are very important and in all the amount they participate in the overall financial market and that the system of supervision within that divided system has acted positively, it has pro-pulsively encouraged the creation of habits about the good character of this type of financial market and that it has also created a very strong basis for that financial market. The supervision by the Securities Commission via HAGENA via the Insurance Supervisory Directorate, and to the Croatian National Bank itself is unquestionably from the international institutions' point of view, gave one serious support that Croatia can continue a good direction of movement in this regard and I join all those who speak in favour of the creation of efficiency in the system of supervision through unification, through this agency something that is quite natural, something that is evident. But I also join those who think that one more quality and more gradual way to get to that goal that we absolutely all support, which is the effectiveness of supervision. Namely, as is often happening in our practice and in the adoption of certain individual drafts of the law, their quality vision and reasonableness are usually broken down about sometimes unnecessary treatment in this case, it is an emergency procedure. On the second level, this is either an opinion or an opportunity to consider that unification is done in such a fast way and because of human resources, that it is done for certain pressures that cannot and should not be in close interest with the interests of the Croatian financial market, etc. Thus, such a course of action imposes solutions that create resistance in their way of thinking. They're actually destroying the quality content that they need to get exactly this quality proposal to unify surveillance. Therefore, I want to make a distinction between that part which I think is missed in the procedural sense of the way that we will come to quality supervision and these supervisions clearly have a divided full financial market and one which is controlled by the Croatian National Bank clearly with the necessary needs of the Bank Act, which is to respect the fact of small financial institutions, which are small banks that have a specialised character and which in the nature of their content should create a flexibility on the financial market which is generally monopolized. It is not only in the case of banks owned, mostly owned by foreigners, which is an additional problem, and we also see in the last few days that through the case of the Privredna bank Zagreb it is escalating in one very, very strange way with insufficiently clear positions that should have been said, of course, in terms of such a contract that is discriminatory in its character in relation to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because one community gives something that it should not have, but should enjoy all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And given the fact that a large amount of funds is being entered into the Privredna bank, not only the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but the funds discussed by this Parliament, means the funds from the budget of the Republic of Croatia are talking about the unsustainability of such thesis. Therefore, it is absolutely good to break the contract, a contract that has been discriminated against by Croatian citizens, that is, the vast majority of Croatian citizens. However, as regards this supervision of this sector and the unification through this Agency, we think that it is absolutely appropriate to the very content that is positive, the intensity that is intended to be achieved, which is efficiency, and thus to strengthen the financial market. And even if it were to be traced to the seriousness of this House, I absolutely prefer that this and I wish this were discussed in two readings, I believe that nothing more significant would have happened. Of course. That there remains a doubt and a question of a five-member agency with five members with enormous competences, with enormous responsibilities that the Council in a vague manner may be a control mechanism in terms of a lever with which it can be attached leaves that part of the doubt and dilemma. And I believe that through the amendments that the HSS Club has submitted and which are on track to bring this law into that technical, operational and procedural sense in a more quality step so that these doubts and dilemmas that I have observed would not apply to this bill. I believe they can give a lot of space to really bring the Agency back to life. It is highly doubtful whether the deadline for reviving the new agency is too short and whether it will cause some problems in the financial market itself. Because it is, as I said, so dynamic and so demanding that it simply cannot endure any restrictions and cannot endure relative lagging behind legislation. And unfortunately, in our very segment of the financial markets, both the banking and the other develop in their emerging forms far faster than the legislative legislation responds to both the case of supervision and the case of handling in terms of the development of new forms of that financial market. So very often those who operate in these institutions find themselves in doubt that the market has made a step that legislation unfortunately cannot be sufficiently monitored. Therefore, this very dynamic nature of the financial market is one of the arguments why it would be good for all the measures to be adopted, all amendments and additions to the laws to be adopted in one period where there will be no possibility of a standstill, false interpretation or of an unauthorized state which will put the meaning of the law at risk of being misperceptive in the financial public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46842	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP club, five minutes ago, Mr. Miroslav Rozic, who is not here. Does the secretary of state want to? Yeah. Mr. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46843	Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Well, here I'd just like to say a few words in the short term. In terms of competence, the responsibility of the Agency's Parliament, I think that the Agency, or I have already said several times that the Agency has no greater or less responsibility, or no less independent than other agencies. So, once a year, they will report to the Parliament. After that, when we talk about the Agency's work, the statutes of the Agency will be proposed to the Assembly. Therefore, within 60 days the Agency has proposed the Statute to the Assembly and the Assembly will determine the statutes of the Agency. Therefore, when it comes to uncertainty, it is very important to say that Article 27(4) ensures continuity of supervision. So there's no way to talk here about any way that it's going to make it impossible, so the continuity of the surveillance. Furthermore, it is the law that ensures, as the esteemed representative Linic said, about the possibility of exploiting certain holes in the law. Therefore, it is this agency that will unite all supervisory agencies that will ensure that there are no holes that can be used, that there is no possibility that individual entities in the non-financial banking market will therefore find holes and interdependencies of funds from one fund to another. Since we know the financial conglomerates and owners of these management companies and very often leasing companies etc. able through surveillance and administration to do it. Therefore, this agency will make it possible for these things not to happen, so that there is no exploitation of the gaps in the law and thus to enable and improve the supervision of the non-bank financial system. For financing, I must therefore say that funding is gradually transferred from state budget funds to compensation, so entities in the non-banking financial market, that this is in line with best practices, that this is in line with reducing the deficit and burden on the state budget and that in this way the Croatian financial system as a whole, including state finances, is as stable as possible. Here, in this case, I would end up with this and, of course, I would say that it is very important that the law continues to go into an emergency procedure, since the law is important to align with the European Union and that in some way the speed of law enforcement and the speed of implementation of this law therefore shows responsibility, the efficiency of this government to deal with the problems that exist and which in some ways show that the Government is determined to address these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46844	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. He'll decide in two days, most likely.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46845	The final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency was submitted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, representative Drazen Bošnjaković and the Club of Representatives of the HSS. I'm asking Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. First amendments to the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46846	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46847	Actually, one only has an amendment. Accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. We now have amendments to MP Drazen Bošnjakovic. Amendment 1 to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46848	It was consumed in this amendment by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. So he's accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46849	Representative Bosnjakovic. Retracted. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46850	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46851	It becomes an integral part of the law. And Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46852	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46853	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendments to the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46854	Amendment 1. The government does not accept for the reason the amendment proposes that the competent authority in the management of the agency be the advice of the agency in addition to the administration. The proposed competence of the advice on the implementation of the Securities Market Act would prevent any operational decision on the management of the Agency concerning day-to-day supervision, for example, trade in the stock market. Therefore, the measures to be taken urgently in the event of the prevention of market price manipulation should be subject to the agreement of the advice, which is totally unacceptable and inoperable, because it would then practically affect trade in the stock market and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46855	Honored representative Luka Roic on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46856	Mr. President, the intensity of this amendment is as the minister has said, in fact, a different role of the agency's advice. While the Government's proposal, as the Agency's advice, only the advisory body in this proposal has a governing role to play in determining the policies that are related to the Agency's action and with regard to the decision-making of strategic decisions. In our opinion, the advice should have a certain and strategic role but it, or should not actually be. For the purpose of efficiency in the work of the Agency, the management shall, in addition to the implementation of the decisions of the Board and shall take instructions for the uniform application of the decisions of the Council, take all decisions, operational nature and all regulations and decisions of the internal nature on its own. The HSS proposal just shows the difference between the concept and I would ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46857	Thank you. Please, who's in favour of this amendment. Oh, sorry, yeah, let's go vote the same with the key, let's get involved. We can vote. Score. For Amendment 30, 2 abstentions, 64 v, did not receive the required majority. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46858	Amendment 2. The government does not accept for the reason that the amendment on the composition of the council in view of the fact that the advice and the jurisdiction of the advice as proposed in Article 11 of the first amendment would lead to a conflict of interest. The members of the council may not decide on the supervisory measures and regulations which apply to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46859	Dear Representative Luka Roic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46860	Well, I think that all of our amendments are actually about the concept and strategic differences in the Agency's actions, given that our proposal has not been accepted, I am giving up the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46861	This one or everyone?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46862	Well, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46863	Everyone, thank you very much. The other amendments withdrawn, thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 67 votes for, 4 abstentions and 26 against the proposed law, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46864	We're moving to agenda five, today. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z.E. number 370. The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the suggestions by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure are an emergency procedure, unification of the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance, the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Mr. Ante Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46865	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, the Ministry of Finance therefore proposes a final proposal to amend and supplement the Customs Law. I note, therefore, that all changes are and in a certain way these laws happen gradually. The government adapts to any change under customs laws within the European Union. That's the way it is in this case. Therefore, two essential features of the proposed amendments or additions to the Customs Code are. Continuing the process of harmonising Croatians with European customs procedures, and achieving a degree of efficiency to which customs services, the European Union countries. The proposed amendments and additions should also contribute to the simplification and acceleration of the implementation of customs procedures by applying European criteria in the assessment of the degree, the risk of certain forms of cross-border trade and the construction of a normative basis for establishing European standards of customs service handling in the implementation of customs procedures. The implementation of the European Standards for Risky Goods allows for further simplification of customs procedures for all participants in customs legal services who carry out their obligations in a timely and timely manner to the state budget and provide the necessary guarantees for the settlement of their customs obligations. The efficient implementation of customs procedures significantly narrows the area by the abitral behaviour of customs officers, and thus all forms of irregular implementation of procedures including the possibility of corruption. The implementation of European standards of transport procedures requires the completion of a Croatian guarantee system for the settlement of public debt in the transport procedure in particular with regard to its more efficient and cheaper implementation. In accordance with European standards, certain provisions on the creation and limitation of customs debt are specified. The proposed law regulates the provisions on customs offences in order to comply with their respective amendments or the provisions of customs regulations, rules on the protection of cultural goods or animals, etc., or compliance with the level of penalties prevented under general infringements. Taking into account the complexity of customs infringement procedures, it is proposed to extend the time limit for antiquity of customs offences from two to three years. Furthermore, a new modernised EU Customs Code will be adopted during 2006. Preparations are under way for the adoption of the Croatian Customs Code and its implementing rules to be adapted to the circumstances related to the imminent accession of the European Union. The content of the new Customs Code would fully comply with the new customs code, any other legal norms as a national part of customs law, would be transposed into customs regulations, or rules on customs and financial infringements. The government, since it is a law that has the P.Z.E. mark, therefore a mark for compliance with European legislation, proposes that this law be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46866	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Happy Ferenchuck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46867	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. One of the most important strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia over which there is no opposition in any segment of society, including in political terms, is Croatia's entry into the membership of the European Union. In addition to fulfilling political conditions, one of the most important tasks is to bring Croatia's legislation into line with European legislation. Thus, with this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Code, one important part of the Croatian legislation is harmonised with the provisions of the EU Customs Code. The HNS Club will therefore support this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Code. In addition to harmonising with EU legislation, the government has proposed amendments to and additions to the Customs Code and with the aim of creating preconditions for the smoothing of customs procedures and improving the legal certainty of participants in customs legal traffic. In particular, provisions on the demarcation of the customs office's establishment units which perform operationally in the implementation of export, import or transit customs procedures shall be specified. What is important to highlight in the amendments to the law was also taken into account the acceleration and cost-effectiveness of customs procedures as well as the full protection and interest of the state budget in such a way as to create mechanisms for avoiding, or preventing customs fraud, increasing the level of protection and equating customs service practices. These are issues which pay great attention to the countries of the European Union, and at the same time are issues that we must be very interested in in Croatia and which we must pay even more attention to, above all, because of ourselves, and not just to comply with EU legislation. In Croatian customs practice in recent years, several open issues have been recorded in the implementation of new Europeanised customs rules, both from the point of view of the legal certainty of the participants in the customs procedure and the protection of the interests of the state budget. The procedure for the adoption of new rules of the customs system is under way in the European Union, the modernised customs code which should enter into force next year, and in any case significantly prior to Croatia's accession to the European Union. In this case, Croatia will have to work even more to modernise and bring its customs legislation into line, as well as all customs services. The HNS Club supports this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act, primarily because we are obliged to bring this important part of the legislation into line with European legislation, but with particular emphasis on further strengthening efforts to train the Croatian customs service and relevant economic structures to European customs and procedural standards. For, prior to Croatia's accession to the European Union, it is also necessary to count on the adoption of a new Croatian Customs Code and its implementing rules in full compliance with the modernised customs code of the European Union. We also believe that, in addition to normative compliance with EU legislation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia needs to make much more efforts to address the situation in the customs service in which the situation is mildly unsatisfactory. Because in these two years since HDZ's government, there has been a quiet but systematic and complete politicisation of all positions in the customs service, while the profession is the expertise and independence of the service and staff in a completely different way. That the state was alarmingly warned multiple times by the profession, but without success. The government should certainly be reminded if it has accidentally forgotten that the basic objective of reform and harmonisation with the EU and depoliticalisation, i.e. the full professionalisation of services and officials, which will not be influenced by any government, will neither depend on its change. So if we want to really make and quality changes besides harmonising with European Union legislation, we need to pay much more attention to the internal reform of the customs system as soon as possible. We therefore propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia very soon to send a proposal to the Croatian Parliament to amend the Customs Service Act, as it will thus show that indeed professional and quality public service and professional and quality employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46868	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46869	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the two fundamental reasons why the State Secretary cited it is the first alignment with the European Union's gains, and the second is to comply with the treatment, customs treatment is two important reasons why this law is passed. But of course, I think that Croatia also needs to pass this law for our sake. The fact that the flow of goods and people today represents either making it difficult or, on the other hand, a quality reason for better plurality and people and goods in the space of one country speaks best of the meanings of this bill. Namely, the fact that Croatia is a tourist country and that a huge number of tourists come from the European Union every year, and this year we have had opportunities to see this arrival, and despite the fact that Croatia's road infrastructure today is almost accessible to the needs of tourists coming to Croatia, the images at our border crossings are not as touristic as the motive of arrival is touristic. Of course, Croatia is not the only one and is not the main reason for the traffic at border crossings, often our countries are neighbours. Of course, any coordination aimed at better pro-proliferation of tourists and other passengers is clear with respect to supervision, control and all that is important for the security of the overall, that it is of course time that at least on our part to coordinate certain actions, methods of action and that they simply adapt to the structure of those passengers entering the country. I think it's a very important guideline that is often lost in these rough methods that try to paint what the job of customs services is, which is the task of a customs law and what is the subject of action. In this so-called, hard math often suffers the character of those travelers entering the country. And given the evident fact that Croatia is indeed a tourist country and that it is one of the biggest obstacles or, if you want in this year's study of feelings, by making remarks and showing that foreign tourists who were both made at the border crossing points and in the places of their temporary stay, are saying that the largest number of complaints, the biggest complaints refer to this period, the period of crossing the state border. Of course, our tourists give a pretty good rating to our officers at the border crossings, which tells us that Croatia is in that part and has managed to make a certain shift. Unfortunately, however, the largest number of remarks our tourists left for 2003 and 2004, and the relevant research confirmed from Thomas further that, unfortunately, it refers to our neighbours. Our neighbors. I won't be rude if I say that most of the complaints refer to our neighbours of the Slovenians. I think that even in this sense we must act preventively, it is our job here in Parliament to point to the Government, and the Government that its measures to bring procedures together to create better conditions, I say, for this structure which, by its character, can clearly be a risky structure and can be hidden in this vast mass of tourists and those who are not welcome. But in any case, all of these amendments to the Law need to create this positive environment in which this worst moment, at least as far as tourists are concerned, is the passage of the state border to the shortest possible time. At the procedure that will be in line with the treatment of tourists and clearly, respecting everything that may at this point and in legislative legislation is not fully clarified in terms of tourists and their crossings. In particular, I mean organized arrivals that are very important to us and that are very important to us. That they should also have different procedural treatment from any other treatment that can apply to other modes of transport, any goods, any people, passengers. Therefore, Croatia is very sure that the goal is to coordinate with its neighbours and, at the level of the procedure, those actions that will first and foremost create greater pro-pulsivity at the borders. But clearly, look out, people work at the border. They make people who are paid for their jobs, who are trained for their jobs, who live within their own misery, their problems, and everything that surrounds them. Unfortunately, customs officers are those groups of our own, among other things, that group of our civil servants and employees who do not advance the salary for work. The very responsible work they're doing, they're very often on an unwarranted target of criticism over this and that. And I think it's in the sense of regulating these relationships, and they're the first ambassadors of every tourist and every passenger to come. They're the receptionists of this country. They really must come, we must create from these customs officers receptionists who will know both language and culturally and at the level of action really present the country. Because it's crucial to have first contact. And it is good that our places along the border included this one, creating a positive atmosphere that shows tourists to enter the tourist country. But clearly, we must first of all, here I appeal to the secretary of state to pass it on to the government. It is necessary for these people at the border to provide additional education in terms of language, it is necessary to provide better financial and material resources. Because indeed during the tourist season, they play an important role and make one lever in the system of functioning of the tourist season that is important for this country. And I believe that these laws, but above all, and certain sublegal acts, would require certain services that play a particularly important role, a prominent role that is almost, not so seasonal anymore. It has taken up a time period of nearly 6 months and should in some ways and professionally try to set up these officers to be at the level of what they are expected to be. And clearly they deserve to be properly paid for it. So we at the HSS Club, of course, support this harmonisation, harmonisation of conduct. But here, we appeal that in one specific relationship with our neighbours, we try to bring the procedure into line that it is not at the level of the 1970s, the 1980s when there were reluctances and when there were now those countries that are members of the European Union, the walls that tourists went through, under quotes, and thus certainly did not achieve that good ambience. So I think this is an opportunity just to point out the role and place of those officers doing it. To highlight the role and place of our government to address in bilateral relations with neighbours relations that are not resolved to the end in terms of the realization of turnover. And to align European standards and European treatment and European means of contact with all those who use services at the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46870	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46871	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few positions of the HDZ Club to support the adoption of this Law. Here is perhaps for this law existing, of course, and the proposed new one can be said as perhaps for the rare which others, but the same is the situation there. That it is as good and as effective as it is used well or effectively. Now, we all know what that means in the customs pass, especially in the transport. And the point is I would even say to some of the neighbors we heard something about, and then all these potentially users in our area have certain inconveniences that we can't influence outside our customs zone. Therefore, the existing law should still be amended because it raises doubts which are now being raised because the European Union code is announced possibly to be amended and harmonised. But we have not even been in line with the current European Union code. Therefore, in the first step, this is a alignment with that code which is valid, which is in force, and we believe that there will be plenty of time when it is time for the harmonisation of the European Code to bring us into line by then, at the latest, all these proposals and this Law that we are proposing now to adopt. For this existing and its application especially in the season or tourist season for tourists, we can even say that it is flexible and liberal and that it would not refer to the transport of goods and services in regular traffic and should therefore simply be updated. The reasons for the adoption are not only in this, but also in the final demarcation, definition and efficiency of the application of the law for domestic purposes. The new law defines more precisely the section of the structural units, and therefore, of course, the responsibility of these structural units in the application of that law. Secondly, the risk is defined in particular, especially the risk of traffic. We know that it can be a very serious problem, often end some goods, recently some of our spells have ended with some of our neighbours, but also vice versa can some unwanted goods or other contents end up in the country, so it is necessary to define such a risk and then solve such a risk. The status of authorised economic operator shall then be established. This is extremely important for all those who, I would not want to hurt anyone, but I can freely interpret the fair business or are not inclined to any form of customs regulations. Furthermore, the powers of customs services and its design units, especially with regard to supervision and control, are being regulated and, I repeat, is extremely significant. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. data. This can now be linked to the above finding of the problem of risky goods, but also in regular traffic, because unfortunately many are always inclined to play the rules that apply, and then I said in the introduction that the law is as effective as it will be supervised and controlled. Furthermore, the so-called "species" is specifically prescribed. The transit and procedure around it, and my colleague Markov pointed out, and I am really stressing once again maybe a personal assessment here more than the club, but we must also warn our neighbours that transit, transport of goods and people through neighbouring countries to Croatia must not be in this status in which they often are, and that is why for such a solution we prescribe over and over again or better regulate the transport of goods through Croatia, which, of course, makes it easier to traffic and easier control within. The conditions for the implementation of the temporary import procedure are further specified, which is equally important through, in new content and in production which, of course, is late for exportation, because we have more and more frequent problems that occur, especially in control. The regulatory conditions for the establishment of a more efficient customs debt insurance system and more precise, more transparent criteria for the reduction or release than the obligation to make guarantees shall then be regulated. Now, here they are, conditional on different opinions, but I say the problems conditionally because there were even suggestions that the customs debt that is now proposed to be defined here, and customs debt is defined in a different way, means that in these ideas, the proposals, not to include VAT, and the specific taxes that would possibly be, that they would not be within that debt because that is where they are the pre-tax, but here they are not purely customs and would not be covered by it. I also said in the introduction that the other reason for the safety of participants in this customs procedure is that the security of the state budget is also because certain problems are being identified in the functioning of the charge of that budget, therefore we consider that this will not be a burden, and that it will ensure a more efficient collection of VAT, because there are often channels and ways to avoid or define those temporary imports or exports, and then there are problems. So we stand that this definition should remain, no matter what the level of guarantees is given on the total debt, which is, then, that question, then what is that debt? We believe that in this way, participants will not be threatened in addition to the regulation of penalties that, of course, each law contains, special procedures should be prescribed for imports, the transport of specially motor vehicles and other characteristic goods that we have here... in recent years and which are specific to our area and that is why, with these few reasons that we hold significant enough that this law should be passed, and when it will be a harmonisation of the European Code that we have plenty of time to pass a new law that will comply with this new code, we therefore propose that this law be passed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46872	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46873	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46874	Thank you. Does he want to? Thank you. [[Intruder: No.]] I'm closing the debate. He'll decide in two days, most likely. Secondly, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act, P.Z.E., was submitted by the IDS Representatives' Club. Please show the Minister of Finance Ivan Shucker about this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46876	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The government cannot accept this amendment for two reasons. If this amendment were accepted, the article in question would not be in line with the relevant Article of the European Union Customs Code, and the Republic of Croatia and the Customs Service acted contrary to the request of the European Union, thus failing to fulfil one of the conditions laid down for accession to the common conduct procedure of the Member States of the European Union and the EFTA States.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46877	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46878	We give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46879	Amendment withdrawn. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, at least 77 votes. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that with 93 votes for and 1 abstention the proposed law has been passed. We move to item 6 - Final proposal of the State Aid Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 372 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by laying down the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail pursuant to Article 159. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure, unites the first and second readings of the law, the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary, Mr. Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46881	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representatives and MPs. The Ministry of Finance therefore proposes to the Parliament the State Support Act. Therefore, before the very reasoning of the State Aid Act, it is very important to point out the main features of this law and the reasons for its adoption. First of all, the proposed draft law represents one of the most important steps in joining the European Union, and as it relates directly to a competition whose screening process as we know it is ongoing and started last week. The adoption of this law, which is aligned with the acquis, is one of the most important conditions for achieving the so-called acquis. Bencmark, which will therefore be determined by the European Commission and by the opening of a chapter of competition in negotiations with the European Union. The possible implications of not adopting this law and its discrepancies can therefore lead to the postponement of the competition chapter, which is one of the most difficult chapters of negotiations between the candidate country and the European Union. What is very important to emphasise, therefore, most of us, therefore also MPs, are aware of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and it is therefore necessary to specify the importance of this international agreement and its characteristics in the adoption of the law in question. In particular, following the conclusion of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States and the Interim Agreement on Trade and Related Issues between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, and with regard to the establishment of a system of state support to the European Union's consistent state support system, which we seek to comply with by this law. So it found that the adoption of the aid law would be harmonised and adopted immediately after it was ratified, so the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which de facto happened at the beginning of this year. The State aid system in the European Union is based on primary and secondary legal sources, as well as on the case law of the European Court of Justice. These legal sources are an integral part of aquis communitaire, i.e. the legal gains of the European Community, which the candidate countries are obliged to take over as a prerequisite for membership of the European Union in their national legislation and legal system. The implementation of the State aid system introduced in the Croatian legal system by adopting the State aid Act and the State aid regulation in 2003 has shown in practice the shortcomings related to the primary procedure of submitting and the proposals for granting state aid, as well as the lack of knowledge and experience related to this extremely complex and legal economic process. On a number of occasions, the European Commission warns the technical consultations that the Republic of Croatia does not respect its own laws, and points out on a number of occasions that it is also a violation of the signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement in certain areas. Continued practice is clearly indicated by the European Commission that the Republic of Croatia will lose credibility in this area, which can be extremely awkward and dangerous in the further process of negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. The observations and suggestions made by the European Commission are therefore accepted by the Republic of Croatia because it is evident that we have a obligation to comply with the legal property of the Union as a consequence of the signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement of 2001, which this esteemed House has ratified. Therefore, taking into account the achievement of the strategic objective, preparations for the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union should be implemented through this law further harmonisation and preparation primarily in the implementation sense of the state support system with the EU State support system. Therefore, the purpose and purpose of this law is to prepare for the application of the State aid system after receiving the Republic of Croatia in full membership in accordance with the outcome of the negotiations. By receiving European Union membership, the law in question ceases to apply as Croatia takes over the law in force in the European Union. Since the scope of the necessary amendments and additions for further harmonisation with the acquis of the European Community is significant, it is proposed to adopt a new State Aid Act to be implemented next. Therefore, the direct integration of the State aid system governed by this law with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Article 70. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities. Amendment to the provisions of the old Articles 8 and 9 for the purpose of effective action by the Competition Protection Agency under the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Budget Act, with the exception of Article 266. The General Administrative Procedure Act on a proposal from the European Commission, the introduction of a more flexible setting of deadlines and delivery and the regulation of the question of repetitive requests for a reason of more effective treatment before the Competition Protection Agency, as the procedure which has been based on the distinction of general and individual state aid has proved ineffective. The most significant changes in relation to the current law relate to the enforcement procedure of the application, approval, control and recovery of unlawful State aid granted. In this respect, compliance with the acquis which is incorporated into the law in a way that introduces a more efficient process of delivery, approval, control of the implementation and recovery of state aid to the Competition Protection Agency. So, in the law, there are approximately three cases. The positive parties are therefore that such a law and such a draft law aimed at harmonising the Croatian economy with the acquis, above all through the establishment of an effective system of implementation and control of state aid, is intended to ensure a fair competition for all market participants. This means that this law seeks to ensure that none of the market participants is in an unequal position by favouring the granting of state support. For example, the granting of support under the selectivity system or, for example, even discrimination against state aid users puts a more favourable position than a non-state support economic operator, which has a ultimate impact on the deterioration of competition on the market and on the impact of the result of business entities. On the other hand, the recipient of State aid conditionally stated in the largest number of cases through the acquisition of state aid covers its inefficientness which may be significantly weaker than other competition on the market. This approach is contrary to the rules of the competition where, at the very least, taxpayers' money is used to cover up the lack of business of a particular economic operator and to favour competition in a market that does not receive the same aid. The studies have shown that the model of market discrimination through a selective approach to conferring benefits on certain economic operators has in extreme terms resulted in higher costs of the planned benefits by providing State support. The positive effects therefore, by addressing these extremely significant issues of the Croatian national economy, will create more favourable conditions for allocating state aid in the most effective way in making sure that all market players have equal treatment and as set out in this law and the regulation that will be completed after the adoption of this law. This applies, for example, to the investment and provision of state aid in research and development, small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. On this road, the proposed State Aid Act is one of the first steps towards achieving full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union of negotiations relating to the competition chapter. Because of the importance of this law, we propose that the law be passed in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46882	Thank you very much. Do they want the committee's reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46883	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the proposings, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Yes, this is the law on the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia in time from today when we bring it to the accession of the European Union. This law should, of course, be observed through the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as well as on the compliance of this law with the Croatian legal system. And another important principle note. The conditions of competition of the European Community include the Institute of State Aid Control in both the Member States of the European Union and the country of accession to the European Union. However, many countries in the process prior to accession to the European Union have concluded a so-called preferential agreement, which was generally asymmetric in favour of candidate countries which usually kept their tariffs and other tariffs, fees or some support in order to continue to protect their economy in the process of joining the European Union. Has Croatia fought for such access to the European Union? It's a fundamental issue in the adoption of this law. Immediately without confusion, of course we respect the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the strategic provisions of the policy of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, but this does not reduce the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure that the economic position of the Republic of Croatia is as favourable as possible in the accession process. One more thing. I stress that in this procedure, it is very important to cooperate with the European Commission and European courts in determining and granting support whether they are in line with the acquiss of the communitaire or our conditions and aid laws. In particular, it is important not to play out state aid standards particularly in the upper borders or cumulation of state aid and thus to play the European Union standards when it comes to State aid assessments. What does the bill contain? It defines state support within the meaning of this proposal the laws are all real or potential expenditures or exemptions or reductions, therefore, privileges granted by state support providers and according to, and the normative part of the law are state support providers, therefore, all ministries, agencies, even local self-government units and place them in state support, legal entities that can grant support which violate or could distort competition by giving advantages, donations, releases. In this way, the market allows the user to make or secure a more favourable position and thereby disrupt market rules. This is one of the legal definitions of state aid. However, anyone who deals with the economy knows that state support is an instrument of economic policy for a country's government. That is why the Commission and the European Community have decided to standardise state support and all the countries that have negotiated and provided themselves with a better position in negotiations with the European Union have provided for themselves and some of the advantages in granting state aid in order to make their economies more competitive, more capable of performing on the common European market. Is that how it is with us? In my court and for the information and reasons for the adoption of this Act, none of these circumstances, nor state support programmes or state aid projects are mentioned, and that is the case. Could the Croatian economy, under this law harmonize the Law on Croatian State Support with European State Support, ensure, for example, that in shipbuilding, I am not an expert on all of this to ensure the reason for entering the European Union. Therefore, for Croatia, it is crucial to assess whether the Croatian competitiveness economy is being trained through these support. So, formally looking at this law, this law can be found, many, many, many reasons to pass, I'm not talking about certain provisions now, I'm going to refer to it. So we are obliged to pass one regulation from state aid that meets the obligations of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and we do so. The other is the fundamental problem I was talking about. Whether this regulation ensures the Government of the Republic of Croatia that economic measures, the economic measures of state aid strengthens individual branches their ability to enter the European Union. In my opinion, this second dimension has been neglected, neglected what it will feel like to gain the competitiveness of the Croatian economy by entering the European Union. But maybe that's why it's too late to talk about it. Why? If the Croatian government does not have a planned strategy for economic development, then it certainly cannot have a strategy or plan for a state support programme or state support projects. From an assessment that I could reach on behalf of the club, such a strategy would ensure within a very short, short time period for the Croatian Government to come before the Croatian Parliament and establish a programme of state support. Surely such a programme has economic reasons because the Croatian economy has specificities and can provide even some advantages in the common European market if we use state aid wisely. When it comes to the text of the law itself, the government's proposer said that this law would be valid until the entry into, until the actual entry, or existence of, a member of the European Union of Croatia. But he did not say that this law came into force within 8 days of its publication in the National Journal, he also said that it is fully in line with European Union standards without ensuring the specific needs of the Croatian economy and the Croatian state until accession to the European Union. For this reason, on behalf of the SDP Club, I think it would be reasonable to consider such views and to translate the law into first reading and to develop a plan and programme of needs in the state support of the Government of Croatia which are different from the support and needs of the European Union and the countries of the European Union. That is why we have experience from Slovenia, Spain, Czechoslovakia and besides there are shared books as other countries regulated it. So, in the second reading, let us ensure the possibility that the Government will act for the needs of the Croatian economy when it comes to state needs and the programme. On the very text of which the Government did not, the Government's representative did not show and there is an observation from several committees that discussed the Proposal for this Law. Therefore, Article 10 of the Law provides that the Croatian Parliament, as the most legislative body, cannot adopt a regulation, so the law in the field of State aid if it did not give prior consent to this proposal by the Competition Protection Agency, has previously agreed. Therefore, I agree that the Agency may have a previous and ex-ante ex-ante and ex-post review of State aid decisions, but cannot accept in accordance with the Constitution and the Croatian legal system that the Agency gives the precedence or that the Parliament is subject to a positive agreement of the Agency for the Protection of Competition whether it will adopt any rules from State support if there is no such positive consent of the Agency. Do we think that we have the right and legitimacy to take away the right of the Croatian Parliament that I, independently, decide on legal projects and regulations. He does not have that authority, neither the Constitution nor the Constitutional Court, he only has an ex post to discuss the consent of the law passed by the Croatian Parliament with the legal, legal system of the Republic of Croatia. It is not possible that the government is not showing such objections, we simply cannot blindly prescribe rules from other countries because there is our legal system. I was preparing for this debate reviewing some, some analogies or parallel, parallel solutions in other countries and did not find that an agency or commission that had the possibility and the right to control before and after granting state support was authorized to deny so-called. Consent, consent to the adoption of legislation or to the body or parliament of some, some countries. That is why I am convinced that the right of the government and other authorised proposings should be limited when regulating the issue of state support for their proposal rather than parliament seeking the agreement and opinion of the agency. I think it's a big question without which we wouldn't be able to pass a law like this. At the end of two sentences about the support itself. According to the proposal and the reasons for this Croatian proposal for a law on state aid for the European country and the European Union knows support in social, social nature, support for compensation for damages in individual branches and individual entities, support in an economy that has affected no economic differences in development, not economic differences in the development of certain countries, and is even listed in our material for the case of Germany because it is united from two Germanys and there is the allowed support for the East German area. So the support needed to overcome the consequences of Germany's division. That's what the law says. And we did not vote that Croatia has the right to specific state support when it comes to areas of special state concern. And they could also last for me after Croatia's entry into the European Union because Croatia really has the consequences of the Homeland War that it will have to do for a long, long time with state aid. So all in all, the Social Democratic Party's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament is to respect the obligations of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and to go towards harmonising legislation with the Acqui Community, or legal gains of the European Union, but not without a good analysis of what it means and when it should be done, and accordingly we suggest that this, this, this proposal of the Law on State Assistance, has been considered in the first reading. So we support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46884	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46885	Well, about this article 10. I'm correcting the wrong quote of my colleague, Lek. A fundamental mistake was made by an ex-government that put it into the agreement, but I still have to say that what I'm correcting means the agreement is not above the Constitution. The agreement is above the law. It has the character of an international contract, but this one, however, is the character of Article 10. has the character of octroized abdication. ... that the Croatian Parliament is octroically abdicating for the benefit of some agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is a very dangerous precedent that has so far appeared in the Croatian Parliament and I think we must take good care of it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46886	Thank you very much. We're terminating the debate. We'll continue at 3 p.m. The first is Mr. Bozidar Pankretić and Damir Kain and Zdravko Sočković. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46887	We're moving on with the session. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46888	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, at the beginning of my debate on behalf of the Club, I'm going to express a certain distaste with or rather inconceivable what to do with this law because there are a lot of things that are not definitely clear here without being covered by the law itself. However, we all have to ask ourselves what will happen to us and in the future when we start to be late in steps with certain things, and when we have to, we have to pass certain laws under quotes that definitely, and I will explain that in my debate, mildly speaking, do not do good to Croatia or are not good to our economic situation. As we know state aid is used to intervene in the economy, help businesses and they can be like certain financial assistance, regulation or direct state intervention. The law was passed in 2003. The implementation of the state aid system introduced into the Croatian legal system in practice over two years has shown certain shortcomings that need to be corrected. As the strategic objective of the Republic of Croatia is to prepare for full membership in the European Union, further coordination and preparation is needed in the implementation sense of the State support system with the state support system in the European Union. This Proposal for a Law shall implement, inter alia, the direct connection of the State aid system to the regulated law with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to Article 70. The SSP. If we look at the purpose and purpose of this law in the context of preparation, then we can express the satisfaction of it being followed, it is consistent and I don't think it's controversial but there are other things that are controversial. We must mention here the resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 14.10.192005 and that the national objective of the Republic of Croatia in accession negotiations and achieving realistically possible transitional periods for those acquiss in which there is no or will not exist at the time of accession is not sufficient level of readiness for their full harmonisation and implementation. In particular, it is necessary to ensure adequate transitional periods, including in the area of State aid, in the shipbuilding and steel sectors. From this proposal that is before us, I think that we all agree on this, we do not see whether, in this law, this proposal respects the principles and definitions of seven and eight of the above-mentioned Croatian Parliament resolution, or whether certain protection mechanisms need to be installed in this law, or whether it is necessary to create a normative space through a transitional period for certain state support, and for the so-called most critical ones in the shipbuilding sector, steel industry. Furthermore, Article 7 provides that the procedure for granting State aid is also subject to the General Administrative Procedure Act other than the provision of Article 266 as set out in the reasons for the proposal of the European Commission, but does not stand anywhere to exempt it from the application of the provision of Article 266. ZUP. It should also be noted here that the law clearly lays down the authority of the Agency in the procedure of granting State aid, and that when the proposal for State aid is contained in the legislative proposal of the Agency, it gives a pre-binding opinion on this legislative proposal and when the proposal for State support in the procedure before the Government or other state bodies of the Agency participates in the procedure of granting mandatory prior approval. It's already been discussed here. I reiterated whether such a provision is imperatively put above the agency almost above this Parliament. But what I'd like to stress here is not going into maybe the very provisions of this law, which is why I'm personally concerned about this law and certain things is a fact. We by this law, and he is, it is his foundation to protect through the agency that someone on the market does not get certain state support and it would not be too competitive and successful. That's the point in that part. Unfortunately, when we go a little deeper into this problem, we can say that there are very few companies in Croatia that can become that because of such state support, but there are very many that should be supported by a certain state. In this way, in many sectors, we limit the possibility of using these aids and bring ourselves into an extremely difficult situation. I'd say it's not only this law's fault, but the guilt goes back a long way, given that the state's support wasn't used in the right way, it wasn't regulated in the right way, and we had a lot of big problems. What can be clearly highlighted about this law is perhaps, let this not be misunderstood, but perhaps only Article 1 of this law and it can be really commended, which is Article 1(2) that the subject of this law is not State aid in agriculture and fisheries. Therefore, we are certainly in favour of this item 2 although there have been some intensities to try in some way to put support in agriculture and forestry within the framework of this, but thank you for not accepting it in some way because I think it would be extremely bad. What do I want to point out in this section? I think that because of the different ways, because of the disorientation of the overall situation, and that is what the experts define in this part, we have completely misdirected state support, we haven't defined them properly and we haven't even solved the main problems that we've had in certain sectors, and now it's happening to us that in some ways we're going to cut off some things by force of the law or we're going to control them so that they won't be possible to implement them. What I had done before and what I had advocated in that economic part was certainly the imbalance of certain state aid where state support would surely have to be taken into account that state support in certain segments could not be applied. State support, for example, in which I personally tried to reach the European Union level in agriculture of 1.25% of social gross products, although we were very close in 2002. However, when we look at the structure of state aid that has not been resolved at all, these ten years and have not been properly defined and harmonised at all, as in the European Union, they are almost twice as much. If we look at them, for example, at the share of state aid and with countries that became members of the European Union, which were candidates in 2001 for example, so we see that one of Slovakia had the meaning of state support when it was excluded from agriculture in the social gross product 0.4%, the European Union had in 15 2001 an average of 0.8% of the social gross product while at the same time Croatia had 3.8% of the social gross product without agriculture and fisheries. So, in one sector where I have to stress it here because of a comparison where we had settled and harmonised legislation and a certain application of almost European regulations, which was agriculture and support in agriculture, we were unable to reach a level at European Union level or at least some average in that part, while on the other hand we had in one unsettled part of the support that was almost three times or four times larger. What does that tell us? That we didn't actually have legal guidelines, that we weren't talking about horizontal and vertical investments that were entirely to blame in this part of us. This is also seen from the comparison we also had for 2001, horizontal support, state support in Croatia 15%, the European Union 47% in the sectors directly where we intervened almost our support are 62.5%, which is shipbuilding, railways, tourism, and in Europe is 30%, while in the region we are the same in this part. Now we're ahead, I'd say, in front of the wall. We have nowhere else to go, we're passing a law that will definitely and what we haven't been able to put out by some fire measures, and we haven't been able to restructure, even worsen the situation. We're going to put the agency above it, and it's going to be administratively concerned with the fact that neither the government nor the Parliament nor anyone will allow certain support, and we're going to get into one lot of it, I'd say, a tragic situation, and I'm afraid honestly that this law will now be lightly accepted, and it's most likely to pass because we're not looking at the real consequences of individual laws, but we're looking at that ultimate political goal that the government now has. And that is to enter the European Union and it does not matter what law we need to adopt. That is why I must stress that we will certainly have major problems in certain sectors as well. Because we haven't worked out the whole system, so if in tourism, in one perspective of our sector and our branch, we're going to have problems with state aid, and we're going to have to have problems in this way because we're going to have to be limited in accordance with the law that's being passed, we haven't developed that part enough, we haven't developed the vertical support that would go into that part. So there won't be any support from the state. We are now definitely going to descend to the level of state aid allowed to come into line, we are going to have the law, but our objective economies, our businesses, all those in sectors, especially, should not speak here no, shipbuilding, our ironworks, and apparently tourism. For these reasons, I would say the non-application of this part of the Croatian Peasants' Party Club is opposed to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46889	Thank you very much. Damir Caine, club IDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46890	Your Honor, Mr. President. Honored representatives from the Ministry of Finance, distinguished gentlemen of the MPs. Surely here is the clue, and all previous discussions are about an extremely significant matter because of, above all, the structure of the Croatian economy. I agree that Croatia must clearly comply with the European Union's gains. We simply have no choice here and the start of negotiations was a dilemma between the Balkans and Europe and, in that case, there is clearly no choice. As long as we're not Switzerland, we're not going to become it so we can run an entirely independent policy on anyone. Finally, one Norway that is outside the European Union stands out about 1 billion euros, all to participate in its market. Finally, since that same year, Croatia should withdraw around 140m euros from pre-accession funds already installed in one part by Minister Schuker and into budget projections for the next 206. That means cca 1 billion kuna, provided we know clearly where with that money, more precisely that we have programs in which to spend these billions of kunas. I repeat what Mr Pankretić said and before Mr Leko, this is an extremely delicate legislative proposal and perhaps it should not have been debated at all without seeing how much this money is allocated for all the support in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, last year, or rather, this year 2005 for state aid from, or better subsidies, 5.3 billion kuna were allocated from the budget, and reportedly as much money for the 2006 budget. What are the most vulnerable Croatian branches? We heard about it, so it's agriculture, mostly because of the dry property. The average of this property is about 2.8 hectares per rural household and elsewhere, let's not talk about the steel industry, iron, etc., it is a shipbuilding that currently has between 8 and 9 billion kuna losses, which at any time or on each ship achieves a loss of 10% and which state, means that the shipbuilding donates to exports from cca about 400 to 450 million kuna per year. So, let's count, if our export of ships is between 500 and 600 million euros, that means 5 or 6 times 6 and a half, and that's about 400 to 450 million kuna somewhere. So the fundamental question of what will happen to Croatian agriculture, or Croatian shipbuilding, is this law? Let us not forget the subsidies, the first agriculture, although Pankretic also said earlier that the law does not directly affect Croatian agriculture. However, shipbuilding takes 10% of the total subsidies, and let us wonder how this law will affect the future of these Croatian losers who simply could not survive without the support of this country. Four or five or six days ago, it doesn't matter now, we've been discussing the impellation of railways in this House. We all know her problems, her needs. We all know the railroad is vegetating, but we also know that without support, that whole system would simply blow out overnight. Same with shipbuilding, same with the steel industry. I repeat, on one ship that our ship's shipbuilding systems deliver at $35 million to $40 million, our shipyards still lose 10% to 20% in spite of state support. And it's a Croatian reality and we just can't get away from it. The second Croatian reality is the Croatian budget. Almost 60% that will be difficult, I don't know, someone says 95, others say 99 billion kuna, wastes on pensions and other social benefits, clearly counting here and the salaries of civil servants of cca 24 billion kuna quoted by our press. So for investments in the period ahead of us, maybe 15 billion kuna, counting clearly on the Croatian highways and Croatian roads that I want to strongly believe will also be shown in the Croatian budget as of this year in order to stop under the allegations of "the rowing of parliamentary representatives". But to go back to this law that bears the label P.Z.E. means that it is a law that has to be in line with these European gains. Let's go in a row. Article 3(1) states that State aid within the meaning of this Act, that is to say, all actual potential expenditure or reduced revenues of the State granted by the State granted by the State aid provider in breaching or potentially distorting market competition, favouring the market for the State aid user, regardless of the form of State aid, etc., etc. Article 4(1) states that, unless otherwise provided for in this law, they are not considered to comply with this law as State aid which, regardless of their form, distort or threaten to distort market competition by favouring a beneficiary of State aid, etc. This paragraph 4 means, under Article 3(3), in fact, paragraph 4(a) here are now fine lists which are all the support that is being granted. These are state aids designed to promote culture, protect heritage, meaning areas with an unusually low standard of living, areas of high unemployment, state support intended to implement significant international projects or serious difficulties in the economy, etc. etc. So this law in some way encourages the harmonisation of economic reasons which will be clearly very difficult when Croatia is in the middle, because only the City of Zagreb and the County of Istria achieve the gross social product per capital above the Republic average. However, it might be better to resolve these differences in this country through the logic of decentralisation, rather than through the logic of state incentives. However, it would also be also likely to be useful to say that the state must simply begin to deprive part of its revenues because it is not normal for the county budget across the Republic of Croatia to move in terms of 100 to 300 million kuna, or as Mr Pavlic did last time correcting me by mentioning the developed County of Međimurje whose county achieves a budget of less than 90 million kuna, 80 commas and some million kunas, they cannot now state it. The city of Zagreb itself has a budget of 6 billion kuna. We gentlemen are going to suck the whole of Croatia in one centre with such a policy, so either here or on support. Now what the governments are doing, all the governments they're talking about. They share from this one hypertrophysed budget funds in those environments where its sympathisers are in power and thus the Republic of Croatia emerges further. Then support for culture, certain economic branches, etc. You see, that's also what we're talking about here, and that's where we come up with that famous article of the 10th that Mr. Leco may have been talking about the most so far. This is where the Ministry and other authorities of the State Administration are obliged to submit a proposal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for state support to the Agency for a preliminary binding opinion and in paragraph 2 of this Article the opinion of the Agency shall be delivered to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with a proposal for a law containing the proposal for State support. So we're making a great body with this legal proposal. In the right sense, we create this article a true shadow government. And it would be fair if that were the case, and it is according to these articles, that it is a super body, that then the shadow government is led by someone from the opposition to prevent these enormous assets, and I said that 5.3 billion kunas are allocated for subsidies only to the environments that are in some way consistent with those parties that are participating in the Croatian government. Witnesses of independence, etc. I don't know that body, etc. I think it should be sold, independence etc. Someone else. So they're not going to disenfranchise themselves for the benefit of some associations that don't have any electoral legitimacy and who want people who possess legitimacy to rule the country now. And they can clearly lead the country, it's no problem at all. They should oversee the work of the Government, the work of the Parliament, etc. But let them go to the polls nicely, and if they get electoral legitimacy, why not take responsibility for the whole country. So that's the story of the independent, the dependent, the one who set whom up, and so on. I think these are stories for small children and I really suggest that the head man of the agency appoints the opposition as in all the competent parliamentary democracies of the opposition, let's say the first man of the Committee on Internal Policy. Why am I so untrustworthy, or exclusive or perhaps suspicious? Because the word is, I'm going to repeat once again the number of 5.3 billion kuna. It is more about support or these subsidies than about the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. 5.3 billion kuna is about the entire budget of the Croatian Army plus 50% of the interior ministry budget. And the manipulations with these support will probably all agree, are almost perfect and political and economic. So let's keep our economy safe, let's keep that farm, regardless of which this law may not be directly tangling it, let's save the shipbuilding and keep those railways whatever they are, let's keep that steel industry, decentralised the Republic of Croatia, let's leave it in some way to the local self-government and let the clear agency run by someone who, let's say, will propose to the opposition in Parliament, and then let's say some two members appoint the ruling majority. Finally what else to say? I think it's hard to agree on, but I think it's also fair. Second, what is also extremely important when this law is based on what Mr. Leko was talking about, which concerns this previous binding opinion. No one can give the Parliament any prior consent or anything like that. The Parliament is the most constitutional body, above the Parliament as it was liked to say in the early 1990s can be the only God. This is what is proposed in this legislative proposal to disabling our Constitution, this is saying that the executive power in this country is everything, that the representative power that we in some way represent is almost nothing, and if we keep to this House, to our dignity, then we will wipe this out and one such norm simply must not pass. In spite of the fact that we are all aware that it is the harmonisation of this proposal of the law on state aid with European gains, and although we are all aware that such a legal proposal must be adopted in this House, I do not think that anyone on the other hand has the right to propose disabling the role, the position that the Croatian Parliament needs in the future. And to end what else do you say? Let's save this for our little remaining national economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46891	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46892	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's fellow Cain, I'm correcting his false claim, because it's incorrectly and unargumented: the government shares support where the sympathisers are in power. So totally arbitrary. Here's an example. The highway begins towards Sisak, unfortunately we are not in power. Rijeka Shipyards, waste dump support when observed, is a fact that much more is where we are not in power but where it is. ... All right, client. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Rebro Hospital in Zagreb. Further to decentralisation, another incorrect allegation, in order to reduce the need for support, is completely incorrect. Because actually support requires poor, decentralisation would get rich today, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46893	State Secretary. Here you go, Ante Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46894	Honorable MPs and MPs, so I'd just like to get a few things straight. Therefore, when it comes to the Competition Protection Agency, it should be borne in mind that it is an agency which is solely responsible for this respected House. Therefore, the parliamentary representatives to whom the annual report is also submitted. The person running AZTN was appointed when the State Support Act was passed in 2003. So, and another thing, about how much support there is in other countries. Here, the AZTN report noted, therefore, that the European Union has the support of 0.57% of gross domestic product. New members of the European Union 1.38% gross domestic product, Croatia 2.94% gross domestic product. As for the aid of 5 billion kuna, it should be said that those in the next budget will be somewhat lower, firstly. There will be a suggestion, therefore, to be something lower. And secondly, support is not just direct subsidies from the budget. That's where they go in and write off claims, bailing out guarantees, etc. So, next, I'd like to say about agriculture, I think Mr. MP Pankretic was clear enough. So agriculture and fishing are excluded from this law. I'd only make so much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46895	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46896	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members of the Croatian Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Law, we have before us a proposal for a Law on State Support with the Final Bill proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt the proposed Law by an urgent procedure, because we have seen several clubs that have asked for a second reading. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. I would like to point out that the current State Aid Act was passed in 2003, and amendments and additions were made in 2004. The State aid law is in line with the new organisation of the Competition Protection Agency, in accordance with the Competition Protection Act, which corrects nomotechnical errors in the text and is in line with the statement of Article 5. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their Member States. The adoption of the State aid law and the State aid regulation, the implementation of the State aid system in practice showed shortcomings in the procedure for submitting the State aid proposal. But there are also shortcomings in knowledge and experience related to the legal and economic system. As the aim of the Republic of Croatia is full membership in the European Union, further coordination and preparation of the state support system of the Republic of Croatia with the EU's state support system is needed to achieve this strategic objective. In doing so, we must make sure that further harmonisation does not prejudge future negotiations on the accession of the European Union within this area. Taking into account the fact that, by entering full membership, the State Aid Act and all other domestic legal regulations are put outside the scope of the State Aid Act. At the same time, the legal acquis of the European Union has been applied directly to which Member States have transferred competences in the area of State aid. The purpose and purpose of this regulation is to prepare the Republic of Croatia after receiving full membership of the European Union for the application of the EU State Support System. As the scope of the necessary changes and additions for further harmonisation with the acquis of the European Community is significant, the best solution is to adopt a new State Aid Act. The new State aid laws shall be implemented as follows. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. Nomotechnical change in the concept of "appropriation" favoured by the conceptual adjustment of the acquis of the European Community. Further harmonisation of the definition of general prohibition, exemptions from a general prohibition with the acquis of the European Community, as proposed by the European Commission. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the European Community and their Member States and the Republic of Croatia, as proposed by the European Commission. For the purpose of effective action by the Competition Protection Agency in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Budget Act, with the exception of Article 266 and amending the provisions of Articles 8 and 9 on a proposal from the European Union. The introduction of a more flexible setting of delivery and regulation deadlines, the question of repetitive requests for a more effective procedure before the Competition Protection Agency. The current process of delivery, approval, supervision, implementation and recovery of state aid to the Competition Protection Agency was based on the distinction between general and individual state aids, it proved very ineffective, and this new Law proposes to introduce a more effective procedure on the previously stated. This proposal distinguishes two possibilities. The first option is if the State aid proposal is contained in the legislative proposal. The Competition Protection Agency shall issue a mandatory preliminary opinion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament on this legislative proposal. Another option is if the proposal for state support is in the process before the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the proposal for State support is in the process before other state and other bodies. At that time, the Competition Protection Agency shall participate in the procedure by granting a mandatory prior authorisation. It is important to point out that the intolerance of the proposal for acts containing provisions on the granting of State aid to the approval, i.e. the adoption of acts containing State aid provisions without the approval of the Competition Protection Agency, leads to illegality. It is therefore proposed that the Competition Protection Agency in this case order the repayment of funds if they are used by the basis of such non-existent provisions. The new Law also proposes compliance with the provisions on the so-called, appropriate measures from the legal property of the European Community. Nomotechnical harmonisation of the provisions on official secrecy in accordance with the European Commission's proposals. A new deadline is also proposed for submitting an annual report as proposed by the European Commission in order to comply with the deadlines of the European Commission. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community notes Article 10 of this Proposal for a Law because it considers it an unacceptable solution to which the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency is binding. Because in this way, the Croatian Parliament cannot pass the law unless it has the Agency's opinion, or if it is not positive. This shall also apply in an appropriate manner to sub-legislative acts, i.e. acts of the body of units of local and regional self-government relating to Articles 11 and 12. They would also make an observation by the HDZ Club on the transitional and final provisions of Articles 21 to 25 where it is necessary to work legally and no-technically on their statements. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club supports the urgent procedure because this Law continues to bring Croatia's state support system into line with the EU's state support system, and the basis of this law also requires the adoption of sublegal acts that are detailed in the system. Finally, I would like to say that the Croatian Government has a designed development strategy to implement this new proposal of the State Support Act, which will be supported by the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46897	Thank you. PGS, SBH and MDS representatives' club, respected representative Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46898	Dear Mr. President, respected members of the ministry. Here's what I'd like to do, in short, to call a regional party club, to refer to the adoption of this law, the State Support Act. Like the other day, the clubs that have been exposed so far, the opposition clubs, so our club has a fundamental observation that this law is directed, so in an emergency procedure, and we think it would be good to have it headed for another reading, so that there is once again a debate on its content, and on the other hand to get a little more time, not only us, but many of our economic operators, so that how much, so much preparation for joining the European Union, and that they can be as competitive as possible. Because in our view, therefore, the adoption of this law reduces the fact that negotiations with the European Union could promote a period during which Croatia could continue to help state aid to restructure certain economic branches faster, especially shipbuilding, agriculture, and I would also add the same textile and wood industry that are not ready to go to the competition. For example, they can set a budget for this year where textiles have again warned in the last few days that they have received too little funding, it seems to me somewhere only about 5 million kunas to help this branch, and without such help our textiles are doomed, not to mention the additional competition that comes from the east, and we also have cases from the European Union itself that warn us that some branches are in great difficulty and therefore, without the help of the state, they can hardly survive. Here, the last news tells us about that, for example. European regulators are investigating a financial injection of one and a half billion euros, as the Spanish government has invested in Izar, the second largest European shipyard, although Spain considers that the European Commission has no legitimacy over this aid, established by an investigation into its illegal nature, Izar will have to pay back the money. It is believed that the subject of the investigation was the aid Izar received between 2000 and 2002, as soon as he came to... the advantage over competitors from the European Union, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this news tells us that in the European Union it is very much being followed so as to distribute and how all these funds are being made. State support in Croatia has therefore played a very large role, so far. That's also the information on the amount of funds allocated year after year to the budget for support, it was 5 billion kuna. In 2001 it seems to me that these funds were even bigger, it was 5.25% of gross social product with agriculture, and without agriculture it was 3.8% of gross social product. So these are large funds, which, although they help on the one hand, cause me and the opposite effect, because some economic branches are actually dependent on the substance. Now we've come to a situation where they're weak, so I can work on the free market at all. For us, it would be a much better solution, so to conduct a different tax policy, i.e. that, therefore, about the funds allocated to state aid and subsidies, that is about 5.6 billion kuna, to reduce actually the tax on our economic operators, in this way we would potential and assist each economic operator in every part of the Republic of Croatia, thus avoiding arbitration, so this is what we are talking about here, and this law, in my view, is not what we avoid. So here we are before the budget for next year, we see that investment is announced, we see that big support and large subsidies are announced, so the question is how is it going to be allocated, is it still going to be the political context, the political criteria, and not the criteria of actually real needs? In my opinion, this arbitration has not been avoided in this law, so we have already heard basic remarks that the agency is being placed above the government, above the Parliament. The Government shall also prescribe, in paragraph 4 of Article 4, the content, procedure and essential elements for the assessment of compliance with this Act of State aid and paragraph 3 of this Article. So it is about those exceptions that are actually the same exceptions as they are in the European Union. We think we should avoid it anyway. So, to conclude, we advocate that this law goes into second reading, to introduce a transitional period of at least a year to try to subsidise and support our most needed branches of economy and agriculture, so to be as competitive as possible and therefore we think in the extreme case that a much better solution would therefore be to change the tax system, i.e.. to reduce, to that extent, the taxes and contributions our businesses have and thus to obtain an objective situation on our market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46899	Thank you. In Article 207(2), Article 15,58, the time for application has expired, i.e. the time for application will expire. ... Well, come on, we can wait a minute. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Break a minute and a half. The Club of Representatives of DC, HSLS, LS, the Honorable Representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46900	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, Article 70(4), defines that Croatia will establish an operational body, means an independent operational body which will be entrusted by Croatia with the powers of approval of the State support programme, i.e. individual support, and orders the return of State support if these support is unlawfully granted. The clear objective and intention was to prevent or disrupt competition in trade between the European Community and Croatia, and to prevent possible abuses of the ruling position of one or more entrepreneurs in the territory of the Community, or the Republic of Croatia, and to prevent and disrupt competition by creating a monopoly. As the state aid system so far has proved to be a lack of this bill, it gradually matures awareness of the need to correct the perceived shortcomings clearly in the current state aid system. Fortunately for us, and fortunately for this whole project, the entire course of this transformation of the state support system will take place as part of harmonising our legislation with the legislation and legal gains of the European Union in the process of negotiating Croatia's accession to the European Union. It means that this is one in a series of our preparedness tests to accept the European Union standards because the State aid system of the Republic of Croatia needs to be harmonised in implementing terms with the European Union's state support system. What our support system is is really well known to all of us. If we are to be honest, we will see that the method of adoption was burdened with various advantages and was under strong pressure from politics and various informal often breeding and volunteer groups. The effectiveness of the support is often questionable from the views put above all economic and political objectives. The number of employees, i.e. new employees, efficiency of projects that are supported, then financial impacts, the development of projects themselves, as well as the dedicated investment of appropriations, has been questioned. We also had, let's remember, in this House of Sharp and gallant debates about how some of the support that the former government and the former government had given was that they had ended ineffectively, or executed by employees and people in the areas where these companies were and those projects where they were realized. A new system of state support by harmonising with the European Union's gains is also making one sense of compliance. So far, we have had one proverb as a privilege, meaning the notion of privilege itself, instead of which this law introduces the notion of advantage and in order to give an advantage to someone must be indicated and defined transparent criteria that must be met by the support user. What is most important here in this legislative proposal is that this law clearly prescribes the role of the Competition Protection Agency. This shall comply with the obligations laid down in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This agency is an independent operational body expected to be effective in the supply, efficiency in approval, effectiveness in monitoring the implementation and efficiency in the return of State aid if they prove to have occurred illegally. It means that the Competition Protection Agency approves and oversees the implementation of state aid all in order to ensure transparency of the State aid system. The key role of the Agency is to consider and assess state aid proposals, monitor and implement and the effects of State aid granted, in the collection and processing of and the recording of State aid data. Its role is to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on these aids themselves and to participate in the preparation of laws and regulations to improve the state support system. The agency's not an obstacle, she's a helper. Here it has been indicated in previous discussions that it is an obstacle to some parliament or government to make appropriate decisions autonomously. We see it, our club sees the agency as an expert-legislative filter between act promoters, so there are ministries, local administrations, self-government, or other competent authorities for applying for support and means on the one hand, and the Government and the Parliament on the other hand, so that both the Government and the Parliament can be helped not to fall into error, that it is not in a position to break the law or rules of the profession. Article 10 provides for an earlier positive binding opinion by the Agency. If there is no positive binding opinion, there is no State support according to this. Many will be distracted by this formulation in this article and other articles in which this body becomes a truly independent body. This was both the objective and the Agreement on Association and Stabilisation. To us who are used to deciding everything politics and politicians this formulation seems strange and largely unreal. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, we are asked to limit the influence of politics and politicians. We are required to perform euthanasia, we are asked to open up a true space for profession, responsibility and transparency. By accepting these solutions, we do. However, the solutions in Article 10(5) and Article 13(5) also open up a space for the further impact of the policy to be offered, meaning that those solutions offer one possibility that within 30 days if the Agency does not deliver its binding opinion or does not grant the State support in question or if it does not reject the State support proposal, or if it does not establish that it is not State support, or if it does not conclude that the provider or the State support user has not provided the requested information or documents, it is all considered that the Agency has granted the State support in question. It seems to me that in one of these formulations there is room for further manipulation and that what is wanted with this legislative proposal is not realized. And finally, we wonder who will choose those who will work in the independent agency, by which criteria, whether the agency will have representatives of the profession exclusively or mixed with political representatives, what kind of party parity of such representatives will be in this agency. Because if only party representatives are concerned that we will have a rotten bargaining agreement which will make the state support system counterproductive and make the agency new from the policy-dependent operating body. Clearly, we have also indicated our possible fears. Clearly, we will also give our support to this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46901	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46902	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Croatian People's Party Club is asking for this law to be put in place as a first reading and to go into second reading for the same reasons as the HDZ Club said, and here for a wonderful miracle, I agree with all the remarks that the HDZ Club has made on this bill, and precisely because of all the objections you have made and are primarily referring to the fact that this law puts the agency above the Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State said the agency is responding to the Parliament. Yeah, that's how it was until the law was passed. If we pass such a law afterwards, it is no longer the Parliament that determines anything to the Agency except that it adopts or rejects the Agency's report because everything that should be passed means that any law must first go to the previous opinion and all other matters must be approved. That's how they put themselves above the president of the state, above the Parliament. So, the Parliament, so they, well God, as Shime Jodan said at the time. That's what I agree with HDZ, and that's why we're not voting for this bill anyway. I also agree in one part, which is when the observations on the issue of sublegal acts have been made. It doesn't say anywhere here what sublegislative acts the agency needs to bring, not even when, within what time, there's no obligation to make sublegal acts. There is one thing that will apply, it says: the regulations adopted under the State aid Act will apply and will apply after the law has ceased to apply until appropriate regulations under this law have been passed. What time is that? When? And it is there that these deadlines are not defined that opens up the possibility of disrespecting this law. Because who's going to use those new ones that are old, there's simply no excess deadline in which this would start to apply and that would stop. Then this transition period as we move towards Europe, the question of the dynamics of supporting. It means how much it is, how much money is in play and what branches it's about. Because I might be blaming the estimates, meaning we're going towards Europe, how we can agree on certain chapters, so that some chapters fall out of our support, and then some transitional deadline for the shipbuilding is two years and that the shipbuildings give me nothing for two years. And to shut down a certain branch that is strategically important to us, and that is why I think it should be some kind of strategy in which it would be defined what we're going to help with and what are the deadlines and what are the amounts. Then a question and support is raised in relation to some statistical regions that are being talked about all the time. Whether this, such a law will soon be amended in relation to statistical regions where monitoring and investment and enforcement will be and whether this will be contrary to these statistical regions. Those are some of the remarks, I have more but I wouldn't want any more. The only thing I can say is, here's what I agree with all the HDZ remarks, and we're going to vote against this because of these remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46903	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46904	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's a completely incorrect assumption that the agency will be above the parliament, above the government, above the president of the state, I don't know who it's above. Well, finally, how do you imagine the agency's work at all? The agency, if any support went to the Parliament or to the government, that would be really fun. Here we must trust a group of experts or at least the head of the agency, whatever they call it, the director of the agency. If we don't trust each other, then what are we talking about? What do we name? I mean, be careful what we call it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46905	Thank you. The word is made by Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46906	Mr. President, thank you very much, distinguished MPs and MPs. So here, in a few words, I'm going to try some terms again maybe a little bit. As regards regional support, it should therefore be pointed out that the regional map, i.e. the support to regions, is not subject to this Act. As regards the regulation, this is defined by the Law and the Regulation will be adopted within 60 days of the adoption of this Act. When we talk about restructuring and the individual branches around which, several MPs have expressed some concern, I would say that support will be considered therefore, allowed, for example, to support Croatian railways, if it is based on the restructuring plan, and as we know there is a restructuring plan for Croatian railways that is being implemented. Therefore, in this respect, the state budget support of around a billion and 800 million kunas for the Croatian railways will not be considered illegal, i.e. will be considered authorised. With regard to several allegations that the law should go into two readings, the Government cannot agree that the Law goes into two readings, i.e. it continues to go according to an urgent procedure, for the reason that this esteemed House of Stabilisation and Association, the obligation, which was ratified in 20, in more than 25 parliaments of Europe, would be obliged to comply with the Law applicable in the European Union until 3 months 2006, which is therefore very close. And in that sense, the government cannot give up the proposal to pass the law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46907	I thank you, the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46908	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The State Secretary states that regional support is not the subject of this Act. Mr. Secretary of State, the State's support provider within the meaning of this Act is the Republic of Croatia through authorised legal entities, central authorities of the state administration, units of local self-government, units of regional, regional administration, and any legal person who grants or manages state aid within the meaning of this law. And the users are state support, in terms of legal and physical persons carrying out economic activity, it doesn't matter whether they are regional, municipal or national. You can't interpret the law beyond the rules that exist for interpreting the law. So it's not true, according to the norm that they're not even regional... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46909	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46910	Mr. Secretary of State says the government can't accept that this is going to the first reading, and I'm saying that I can and can correct that inaccuracies. Or let it come with the amendments to take off, to remove in Article 10 and in other articles 11, 12 and 13 that approval and previous opinion because it is in any case the agency above the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46911	I thank you, the HSP Club of Honorable Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46912	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen from the Ministry of Finance. This law that we are adopting today by emergency procedure and we at the HSP Club believe that for its importance, it should not be an emergency procedure. This Law is the result of ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in that form and in the content adopted and negotiated in 2001. Such content of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was the reason why the HSP then sought a referendum, but the referendum then, ladies and gentlemen did not receive support within the Croatian Parliament, although the elements of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement should be asked by the Croatian people, the relation should have asked him about the very parts of the agreement that were implemented in the State Support Act. I remember that even in the previous session of the Assembly, it was timely and the Constitutional Committee was amazed by certain parts of the State Aid Act which unfortunately were the consequence of Article 70. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. So it is also this law today, with all of it at the very least, to be decent to the unusual provisions, is actually the consequence of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so let me quote the key parts of Article 70 to simply remove some doubts and to avoid any further discussions. In accordance with Article 70(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, any State aid which distorts or threatens to distort competition is incompatible with the application of the Agreement by favouring certain undertakings or certain products. Article 4 states that Croatia will establish an operational independent body to which it will entrust the powers necessary for the full application of this Article within one year from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. This authority shall be empowered to approve State support and individual support programmes in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article. Furthermore, paragraph 7 states that for the first 4 years, any state aid granted by Croatia will be assessed taking into account that Croatia is considered to be an area of the community described in Article 87 of the Treaty establishing the Community and that within 3 years of the entry into force of the SAA, Croatia will identify to the Commission its GDP amounts per capita, and that this body will provide the Commission with a map of support, develop a regional support map, and the Commission of the European Communities will assess the similarity of the Croatian regions on the basis of appropriate Community guidelines. Thus, it is clearly said here that Croatia will establish: a) an independent body, therefore, of the Government an independent body, so a body that will in fact be only competent and only responsible for the level of support. Moreover, it is clear from this that the Government is obliged to submit reports to that body and to request permission for a level of support. What Parliament? What Parliament? The agency is the only one that matters. That Agency, or that independent body, shall coordinate its support level with the requests of the Commission of the European Communities. So with the interests and economic needs of existing members of the European Union. Not with the interests and needs of the Croatian economy or Croatian regions, but with the interests and needs of the European Union based on relevant Community guidelines. End of story. So the Parliament in all of this actually has almost no role to play. The agency's reporting to us for the previous year, and that's it. Are we going to accept that report or not? That's completely irrelevant. Because the Agency actually approves of the ministries of what form of support they can give at all. This is based on the European Commission's approval, i.e. on the basis of a regional support map approved by the European Commission. So much for the role of the Croatian Parliament in determining state support and so much for the importance of such a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Of course, it was celebrated at all the bells of the people who negotiated it, but when a man sees what it says, he wonders if that speed was actually paid with such concessions. Could it have been a bit slower to negotiate and not write such really harmful things inside of Croatia today? We reiterated this precisely why we asked for a referendum because we felt it was indeed incompatible that, in addition to a very clear mechanism, this House was to judge Croatia's development strategy. That this House is making decisions on state aid and that these decisions are implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or that the Government gives its decisions to this High House for adoption. That we actually have an entirely parallel mechanism through an agency that is in charge of support, which does not correspond to the Parliament but corresponds to the European Commission. But it's ladies and gentlemen the consequence of this Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And now we only have two options, right? It is one thing to ask for an amendment to this Agreement, which is, of course, difficult to expect through the negotiation system to resolve these parts so that we no longer have to rely on the SAA, but it is quite clear that as long as Croatia becomes a member of the European Union, the SAA is the only international legal framework for our communication with the European Union. And the second option is to make aid law so that, despite this article, it leaves enough room for both the government and the Parliament to use their constitutional powers. Everything else is, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, going beyond the framework of the Croatian Government and giving this agency the Croatian Constitution. Because she is also the body of the executive authority, and the executive power corresponds to the Croatian Parliament, not the European Commission. So for those reasons, as long as the law is written like this, we can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46913	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46914	We are just ahead of us with a proposal for a state aid law with a final bill that must go at such a rate as is proposed. We have no time or reason to wait for laws and regulations to be passed. He's modern, he's nomotechnically dressed with standards that are already in developed European countries. And one dilemma that has plagued us on the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government would only repeat and point out that because the Committee has indeed supported the adoption of this Law, however, it has been assessed that the solutions would be proposed in Article 2 and Article 3. The final proposal for this law should be more clearly defined in the sense that the wording of State aid within the meaning of this law should be laid down whether State support is granted from the state budget or from the state budget and the budget of the unit and regional or regional self-government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal for this law found that state support providers are in addition to the other unit of local self-government, a unit of regional, regional self-government. The Commission considers that the State aid granted to the State is compatible with the internal market in the form of State aid. It also agreed to the Committee that Articles 2 and 3 would apply. The final proposal should clearly define whether State support relates only to the state budget or whether it relates to the budgets of units of local and regional self-government or whether State support is all real and potential expenditure or reduced revenues only granted by the State by the support provider or whether these are expenditures or reduced revenues of units of local and regional self-government allocated by the support provider. That formulation for us is one part that we're lawyers is clean. However, for the second part, it is not clearly defined, so this opportunity would point out that one small misunderstanding because in the other part we have no reason to delay any proceedings and we need to urgently pass laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46915	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46916	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleague said, we have no time and no reason to wait. And we have every reason to wait, because of the fact that we are in such a situation, it's true that the former government has concluded such an agreement on stabilisation and association, Article 70, where we've been cutting our wings in advance. So, we will now come into one situation instead of providing support for areas where we are poorly developed, which we should develop to get more ready to join the European Union, we will now be able to do nothing because for each of these things we need the consent of the European Commission. Therefore, she will say what we can give and how. And that is one problem, especially as this part of Article 10 is essentially what I have already said to the Croatian Parliament, and the word is, beware the agreement has the character of an international contract. The Croatian Parliament limits its constitutional powers by adopting such a law. My constitutional authority because of the fact that we are essentially saying "octrotically abdicated." Abdicate means to give authority to someone else, and octruly means to give power to finally the Agency. So that's one big problem and I think we should find both time and reason or find some complementary form of how, in which way this unfavourable situation should be overcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46917	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46918	... and there are reasons why the concepts should be introduced and implemented through this law and therefore there is no reason to wait and go into another or I don't know which reading. [[Specially enabled.]] In particular, in this opening statement, which was intended to be done with this law, this refers to the direct connection of the state aid system governed by the law, the obligations of the Republic of Croatia as set out in Article 70. Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, nomotechnical change is an advantage to the notion of a benefit for the purpose of the conceptual adjustment of the legal property of the European Community, and further harmonisation of the definition of the general prohibition of exemptions from the general ban on the legal property of the European Community according to the proposals of the European Commission. All these reasons are precisely for this law to be passed by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46919	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Tadic. Answer, give up Thank you. [[/Intruder: I agree. That's college.]] The word has a distinguished representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to say very briefly that at a time when a generic law was passed, from which this Support Act is just an execution. So we took over international obligations almost five years ago, and now we're very surprised when the time comes that we have to meet them. And of course, at that time I was in the County House, and I remember well the adoption of this Stabilisation Agreement where we were in the County House against and where we were then talking about the consequences that will result from certain articles of this agreement and now we are where we are that those who have passed this law and imposed these obligations which it now has to fulfil are against that part of the obligation, and they are not at all talking about the scale of things, therefore, to that agreement in which there are even more controversial points, such as property and everything else that will come to us by successive mech, so to say, at the debate in this House. And that's why I'd just say that if it wasn't for the time being that we had to rush into those provisions that, as he says and I agree Mr. Kovacevic, we'd banged our wings, but we had sex with them ourselves, no one would impose them on us. Because I don't see why Croatia couldn't if Germany had already secured itself in those exceptions to say the indigenous right to support the economy of certain areas of Germany, which affected the division of Germany and the economic weaknesses created by this peaceful division, what the consequences of Croatia being divided from Yugoslavia in wartime conditions where there are billions of war damages and where you could also provide an exception in war-torn areas and others. Well, only when we speak in these exceptions that are so indicated that you can't tell which areas are involved, then I see that possibility in Article 4. So, if it's working in areas where economic development has left a consequence of an extremely low standard of living and a great unemployment that this war of ours today has devastated, that is, our border areas. So I see no reason why all of us who are full of the mouth of transparency, who want to keep an eye on everything, and now we are so rebelling against this agency that for the first time should, for the first time, in one place, enable the entire public and the Croatian Parliament to see state support in those areas that are not agriculture and everything that is related to agriculture. So, if we strive to know everything from one side, and then we rebel when it's possible for us through the law, it's also one of the shortcomings of this House. And as far as this article is concerned on the 10th floor, I think he's referring to only one case. And this is the case that allowed a parliamentary or a group of parliamentary deputies to make a certain legal proposal in the procedure, and in which case, there is no ministry, no government, no particular filter. Because in all others, therefore, regular procedures when the law passes through the state bodies of the executive authority so it comes into legislation as a proposal the Agency is involved and is involved in the drafting of the proposal. Therefore, in the case where it is not involved in the drafting of the proposal, it remains that possibility to influence this proposal by a single parliamentary representative who, if the Parliament could also convince him to pass a law that is not in accordance with, therefore, the laws of the European Union would not be valid at all. So, we'd come into practice of an inflation of sentiment support proposals, for a certain reason, I don't know what to say population impact on the field from which we're going to vote, so we'd split the money. But he would not therefore be in line with the protection of competition and he himself would be in vain. And in order not to happen you just regained the money that might follow, I suppose that this one control mechanism was installed so that such a law in the House would not even be passed in advance. Well, that's how I figured it out, and I'd let the promoter, once he's got the final address, figure it out. So that's where I see his -- that's the co-relationship of the Parliament and the Competition Protection Agency -- A case that she's above. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because by that very relationship, therefore, executive and legislative authorities, I do not see that conflict is extremely necessary. Why would there have to be a conflict all the time? The parliament has control over the government, but it does not have to be in a necessary conflict, nor must it conflict with the Agency itself since members of the Agency and members of the council are appointed by the Assembly again. So I don't see that there's supposed to be a conflict here except from some position of political points or from a ignorance of the very measure of things. So, I would only ask in this part that concerns the same questions, so the support and sources of funding and the bodies that will give them, so I would like to ask myself later, that in this relationship of local self-government and state, that money will go exclusively from the state budget, that the government will determine, and that local self-government will be just one of the implementing bodies that will help decide the government, so either selecting the one whose support is most needed, and I don't see which law, so local self-government and from which sources should provide financial resources, it's the same to the end, because we now have such a case in the sale of agricultural land or rent. So the ministry and local self-government are in one co-ordination relationship which is basically friendly and joint in essentially working on the same job, so I see the same support business, so as one according to the plans and strategies that have already been adopted, joint implementation of the plan. That's why I don't see an obstacle to the emergency procedure in this part, because if it's 12 months now, and two months we still have a break for a month, so it's a deadline in which he has to start living, so it's March 2006, then basically the commitments made from the Stabilisation Treaty, we just have to not want to start breaking in, and so I'm glad that the colleagues who are here and the Ministry of Finance managed to make such a compromise variant, in fact, which, by consuming the acquisitions of the European Union, applies them to something that is already in Croatia but in life to say so, it's just that it's just how I say practice in that part at the level of Croatia and in some way introduces a lot more order in this area, and that's what I think we should all be happy. And this is not just the case that we are, in principle, long before we enter the European Union, but we have European Union standards, that's another story, I'm not going to make it, whether it's always very good or not. I thank and support this law, of course I will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46921	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46922	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Socec-Tracosian incorrectly states that this is a generic law. That's not the kind of idea we have. We have an even term... /The speaker's off, so it's back on./... Secondly, it is incorrect that such a law is the product of an association Stabilisation Agreement. No one has forbidden the Croatian government to adopt a programme of state aid and State aid projects before such a bill and set out in the Croatian Parliament outside the European Commission as the needs of Croatian politics in the Croatian economy. It is therefore wrong to call for a Stabilisation and Association Agreement as regards the possibility of establishing a State aid plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46923	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46924	Well, Mr. Vice President, one part of my line was said by my esteemed colleague, Leko. First of all, in February 2006, the deadline for this part was, therefore, the time had not been required to go by a hasty procedure because the Assembly was meeting after this break which would be from 15.12 to 15.1. and in the meantime this one set of regulations could be adopted where we would place some areas in a more favourable position than will now happen to us. What is unfortunately happening in Croatia is still happening. When we say something and we see a problem, others take from six months to six years. When we asked for a referendum on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we were lonely here and unfortunately now comes to collect all the bad things contained in this agreement, and it will again go to the burden of all Croatian citizens and that is what is worst, and yet we do not do what we could do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46925	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46926	I will reaffirm that this law, the proposal for a State aid law, is only one piece and a commitment under the Stabilisation Agreement. In doing so, I remain definitely because the article 70, which has nine sub-points, speaks clearly about these obligations, I will not read them all because they are on page 20 of the bill, and in any case, regardless of what this law is and we will have to come up with a proposal and a plan of the support programme. So it's not one or the other, it's both our obligation. And as for which law is higher or lower, if one stems from another, I again claim that the one about stabilising is older and simply forced the government to react within the deadlines that are there. But regardless of what we've brought before, you wouldn't have looked at the content of this bill any different. He could and will be able to read yet I don't know how many times, but there can't be, since we've set certain coordinates, and we've got nothing to make up but articles of this law that are there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46927	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46928	Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here's what I'd like to say for the last few things. So first of all, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the International Treaty of Article 70 obliges the Government to propose this law. Therefore, State aid within the meaning of this law is all real and potential expenditure or reduced revenue from the State granted by the grantors of State aid which distort or threaten to distort competition by favouring the market user of State aid. So this involves various types of support. Not only are they direct, but let's say they sell land without a public tender. It is therefore considered a distortion of competition. The European Union system does not know how to divide the budget into state or so on. the local budget in order to treat them differently and according to this, the state aid law has been regulated in such a way that the same applies in an appropriate manner to local self-government and regional self-government units. When we talk about regional support, I would like to stress here that this law does not violate other lex specialis laws, hill-mounted areas, islands, the town of Vukovar, the area of special state care, so all the support they have, including having a full income tax, a full income tax, etc. Therefore, all support is not broken to them. Furthermore, the regional map of the so-called regional map. NUC 2 which the Competition Protection Agency and the National Statistics Institute propose to Eurostat, which is best, therefore to the European Statistics Agency, so there are all regional areas that are less developed and below the level defined by the European Union, and in Croatia we know very well what areas these are, support will be allowed for these regional areas. So these regional areas will be excluded in such a way that they can be excluded are thus, i.e. support to weakly standing regions will be enabled. It should also be pointed out that State support to a single user who does not exceed the total amount of EUR 100 000 over a three-year period regardless of the form or purpose of state support will not be considered as support within the meaning of this law, therefore unlawful support. This is therefore called the minimum amount of support allowed, etc. Article 10, therefore, related to Article 10, had a considerable number of discussions. I think she explained enough about it, and I wouldn't add anything and she correctly interpreted the whole part of it, which is why the promoter, or the government, wanted to show it here. What would end up just in a few sentences. Therefore, this law will not reduce the volume of potential State aid beneficiaries, but all forms of state aid will seek to be allocated in a more efficient way with a greater ultimate impact on the growth of gross domestic products, while taking care of the purpose of spending taxpayers' money. So it's in line with all the arrangements, so it's also with... an arrangement that seeks to reduce the share of subsidies in the gross domestic product. As I said, Croatia has twice the amount of subsidies in the gross domestic product compared to the new accession countries and has a quadruple of the European Union average in the gross domestic product. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the Republic of Croatia will, in fact, continue to take care of strategic economic branches such as shipbuilding or agriculture that is thus excluded from this law. The process of adapting and further dynamics of restructuring of important sectors will therefore be the subject of negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. What is very important is why further emergency procedure, therefore, the regulation must be adopted within 60 days and this will fall about the end of February, or early March, if this distinguished House adopts this, of course, Law. Addressing these extremely significant issues, therefore, the Croatian national economy will create favourable conditions for locating state aid in the most effective way. In this regard, the main concern is that everyone on the market has equal treatment and as set out in this Law, as well as a regulation that will be completed within 60 days. This, for example, refers to the investment and provision of state aid in research and development, small and medium-sized enterprises and so on, thereby ultimately achieving a positive effect on economic growth and competitiveness of the Croatian economy, and thus to the improvement of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46929	I thank the Secretary of State. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46930	Thank you very much. The secretary of state gave me... Please, Mr. Vice President... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46931	I watched closely.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46932	The Secretary of State gave me an argument that Croatia could arrange for its state support needs before the adoption of this Act, arguing that the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas remained in force as state aid. So, if that Law remains, we could establish all support according to our need before the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much. Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected representative of Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46934	Mr. Secretary of State, I can't agree with the claim you made and I believe you're wrong about an emergency procedure. Croatia has 4 years to coordinate its support card, which is 1 February 2009, if I am not mistaken because the Agreement entered into force on 1 February this year. So there's no reason to rush. On the other hand, any problem arising from the implementation of the SAA can be solved through the Stabilisation and Association Council. If we had brought our support card, we could have negotiated it through the SAA by now. So, on the one hand, we are in a hurry to pass the law, to comply with European legislation to join the Union, and on the other hand, we are late for the adoption of a map of support that could be an element for negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46935	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. Thank you. The vote will be later when conditions are made.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46936	Final proposal of the State Aid Act. The amendment was submitted by MP Niko Rebic. I'm asking the Minister of Finance to make a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46937	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46938	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. We can vote. Score. I find that with 73 votes for, 1 abstention and 23 against the State Aid Act as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46939	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on specific conditions for placing flour on the market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 371. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister, Mr. Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me in short lines to explain this proposal. In order to prevent and reduce the grey economy, the Government proposed last year at the 8th month, and the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on special conditions for placing flour on the market. In this context, they can say that this Law has delivered its results on the elimination of the grey economy in the area of flour and the results of the application of the Law on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market for the period from 1 August to 31 December 2004 are evident. The production and transport of flour is subject to control of the system of monitoring the issued, used high-accuracy records and the consumption of wheat and the quantities of flour obtained, and thus the total turnover of the same. For the first time in the Republic of Croatia, a register of mills, bakers, manufacturers of intended mixtures and concentrates is established, as well as importers of flour, intended mixtures and concentrates. During 2004, it was registered in the register of 167 millers, 11 producers of intended mixtures and concentrates, 18 importers of flour, 22 importers of intended mixtures and concentrates, a thousand 419 bakers, and we estimate that the bakery has significantly more than the number entered in the Ministry's register. Of the 167 millers registered, 40 of them did not apply for stamps. Based on the inspection of the State Inspectorate, most of them temporarily or permanently stopped working. In the remaining 127 millers, they were increased by cca 20% in 2004 compared to the same period in 2003. Unfortunately, we can conclude that by introducing flour stamps to the greatest extent, we have eliminated the grey market for flour, but it has been observed that in the field of bakery there is a great presence in the gray economy. And the inspectors of the State Inspectorate are unable to act properly. The use of flour in the manufacture of bakery products or better said, how many out of 100 kilograms of flour can be produced on average kilograms of bread and pastry is not legally regulated. So there is a possibility of avoiding payment of commitments to the state. When we look at both statistical data and data on grinding, then we come to the conclusion that almost 2/3 of the total consumption of bakery products is still a grey economy. For this reason, it is proposed to amend and supplement the Law on specific conditions for placing flour on the market and to make a special regulation laying down the quantities of flour used in the manufacture of certain bakery products. Therefore, by amending and supplementing the Law, the following things will be regulated. The amendment and addition of Article 6 of the existing Act enables the adoption of a new Regulation which will prescribe the maximum quantities of flour used for the production of certain bakery products and how to keep records. By amending and supplementing Articles 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11. The law on special conditions for the placing of flour on the market provides for criminal provisions for legal and natural persons, infringers in bakeries. The new rule, which can be said to be in the final stage of production, will detail the standards for the consumption of flour for all types of bakery products, including all types of bread, pastry, and other bakery products, and thus the competent inspectors will have the legal basis for sanctioning the offender. And therefore, here, by applying the law and by adopting a new regulation to the greatest extent, the grey market will be contained in both flour and baker's products, and we estimate that a significant part of the money will be poured into the state budget. And therefore, I also thank you once again for accepting the application of the emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46941	I thank the minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Law, Agriculture and Forestry? We're crossing... Well, here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Pankretic, Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46942	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At its 31st session held on 9 November, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market. We discussed the bill as a parent body and, following the opening statement of the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee supported the proposal by the proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. In a comprehensive debate involving representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and representatives of the producer of milling bakers' products, committee members supported the adoption of that law, since it allowed the organisation of the flour market to the end, and to curb the economy's forces in this branch. The debate, however, draws attention to the fact that the law itself will not curb the power of the economy in the dairy bakery production unless the inspection services are more effective. It is further indicated that the creation of the necessary legislation should include both producers through the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the inspection services. The opinion was also expressed that the levels of fines for violations are too low in terms of the severity of the infringement and the extent of the gray economy. Discussing certain provisions, the committee members supported a solution that spreads the term flour to the intended mixtures and concentrates that had more than 10% wheat, rye or corn flour in this composition, but proposed that due to transparency it be right behind the point, a point that defines flour. That proposal was agreed by a representative of the applicant. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law with special conditions for placing flour on the market with the following amendment. The amendment to Article 1 is amended and reads in the Law on specific conditions for placing flour on the market in Article 2. a new point 2 is added, point 2 of the wording of flour also includes the intended mixtures and concentrates which all of this composition have more than 10% wheat, rye and corn flour. So far, point 2 becomes point 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46943	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46944	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supported this law a little less than a year ago when we discussed the Law on specific conditions for placing flour on the market, and we will also support these amendments. After the introduction of the stamp on alcohol, on coffee, cigarettes and flour, and now the enlargement that applies to baker's products, I think that in the good part the gray market is reduced when these products are placed, but this means that they are also more efficient to collect taxes that follow from such traffic. In fact, we have expanded these changes, in fact, we are removing certain problems that have arisen in the very application of this law, so this control and labelling of the imports of flour and the control of the production of bread is expanding. I even think that this other part is far more important, because as we can see from the very reasons that we're seeing in the making of the mill register, we've come to the conclusion that one part of the people who did this job are not from technology, and probably for reasons of high production prices if they appear in this way they had to suspend their production, so it says here that out of 167 who were registered in the register, as many as 40 of them did not apply for stamps, which should in the end mean that they do not continue to operate. We're not done, from this explanation to the end we don't see if that control is really being carried out with them who didn't ask for stamps, if they still have production. In the bakery industry, it's something more serious, because according to this record in the register of a thousand 419 bakers, we can really conclude that there are still a lot of entities that are in the production of bread and are not under this control. I think that the determination of the arrangements in the production of bread, i.e. as the definition of the normative well here is said, but also significantly this may deviate in terms of technological equipment, and then we warn that it is necessary to use these normatives and the experiences of certain associations involved in these companies. In the first row, along with the Chamber of Commerce and Cereals of Commerce and the Community, where there are mostly bakers and mills. I would like to warn you about Article 5 and Article 7 where it seems that this change is not very well done, and this is about adding the word to the offense, so I would also read to the end of the line that, for example, Article 9 reads, that, with fines for violations, etc. to impose a ban on the performance of the activity, but it continues to impose a safeguard measure of confiscation of flour which is not marked by a registration mark and a safeguard measure of confiscation of the property benefit by an infringement carried out. I think it's too high and that it's enough after the word property use to put a dot, so that the content actually stays the same. It is similar in Article 7 relating to individuals. So we think it's a good thing that this is the way to change this law, and we're going to support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46945	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club, distinguished representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46946	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Well, here's on behalf of the Croatian Peasants' Party club, of course, to support the adoption of this law, I must say that, as you know, on the initiative of our club we have proposed for almost a year to pass this law. The government accepted, I'd say in a certain way the initiative, we've withdrawn our bill from the procedure. The government's draft law was adopted, however, but of course that law has put under control the production of flour and stamps to some extent determined that we were able to control that production, but not this one, I would say another production, which is the production of bakery products where we have objectively big problems. I'm not going to talk about the law, I think it's both short and complemented in a certain section and these provisions certainly need to be supported. What I'd like to talk about here, which I was talking about on the board is one part of the job that's just ahead of us, which is going to be very difficult, and I don't think we're going to make it through this law unless we think about it very well in that part. The real question is that we may be able to control how much we need a certain portion of flour for a certain amount of bakery products, but what is still happening in our bakery industry and what has been turned over by large producers is that we only control those that are registered and those that we have in some way in the register, and we do not control a large part of those who unfortunately work as they do, but unfortunately work against the law, whether they do not fully comply with the law. Here we are talking about I would say a phenomenon that appears in us, for example, that in the city of Zagreb we spend the least bread, that in any case there is a decline in the consumption of bread, and for a living miracle you can check it out every day with nothing new bakery. So something in that part doesn't work, something isn't under control anyway, and I think in that part it's necessary except for the part that relates to the control of the process itself, I would definitely do it in the control of those producers and the conditions that we give. What I will personally advocate, what I wanted to say at this plenary session, which is that all of you may be witnesses around you that there are almost every single house, that in a certain way I would say consent, get the necessary permits for the different according to my free estimate, I can say it here, inappropriate places for certain bakery shops. And at that moment, we come to a situation where we have an extremely large gray market and I'm afraid that with this measure that we welcome we will not contain the grey market of bakery products, we will still have extremely big problems as we have now. Therefore, in addition to this work for which the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy is of course responsible, I think that other ministries or, in particular, other inspection services will have to be more actively involved in resolving this problem. So without one, I would say a broader approach to the gray market problem in relation to bakery products the problem will not be solved. We objectively put in certain frameworks, so with the existing law on flour production, we still haven't solved the last problem, which is the production of bakery products and the gray market. This may be regulated in some parts, but we will not cover the whole part, and we will most likely have to change some other regulations after some time. Therefore, with the support of this law, we appeal here to the representatives of the Government, to the Ministry and to the Minister to pass on to other colleagues that only in a way of comprehensive approach, especially inspection services, but also other ministries that should take care of the conditions for the opening of certain bakery shops, we will be able to end the grey economy, the grey market in bakery products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46947	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46948	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a dear colleague said that after a year, the government accepted their initiative, which is not true. The government wants to introduce order in the production and distribution of bakery products and has therefore submitted to the parliamentary procedure the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law with special conditions for the placing of flour on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46949	Thank you. On behalf of the PGS, SBH and NDS Club, the esteemed representative Željko Pavlic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46950	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Minister! The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market with the final draft of the law and by an urgent procedure. The law is a continuation of measures to combat illegal operations in the area of the bakery industry, i.e. the illegal black market in agricultural production. The fact is that the problem of the grey economy is a big problem for every country and so is ours, so this problem enters the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As the grey economy penetrates all segments of society, it is important that all forces focus on curbing such phenomena using all available mechanisms to minimise the grey economy. The emerging forms of sales of goods on black, illegal employment, working on black avoidance of public payments are all forms of how the absence of payment of cash amounts based on support, interest and contributions has been conditioned, as well as the irregular position of economic operators on the market. After the adoption of the law, the special conditions for placing flour on the market and after the settlement of the situation on the market in 2004 are assumed to have been 30% of the market in Croatian wheat without supervision and following the results of the law above, which is an unequivocally legal regulation of the marketing of flour, the placing of flour under control and administrative supervision, the profiling of mills that must be competitive on both domestic and EU markets, the increase of the grinding of registered millers and the promotion of profits, the increase of profits, technological improvement and so on. And for the first time, a register of mills, bakers and shift manufacturers and importers has been established. The cost of or the needs of the Republic of Croatia for wheat on the basis of the records stamps which have been subject to for years has also been established. In fact, we could not identify the exact needs of the Republic of Croatia for wheat. The implementation of the Law on specific conditions of placing flour on the market and quality inspection controls, and the statistical reports show that almost 2/3 of the total consumption of bakery products represents a grey economy. Statistical data on the consumption of 85 kilograms of bread and pastry per member of the population annually speak of the annual production of 385 thousand tonnes, which corresponds to the fact that in the Republic of Croatia there is a circus of 450 thousand tonnes of flour, or a single circus of 650 thousand tonnes of wheat. Unfortunately, the statistics on the production of bread and pastries totalling 133 thousand for 2004, from 116 thousand for 2003 and 83 thousand tonnes until 31.8.2005 confirm the fact that 2/3 of the markets are taking place in the gray economy zone. The fact of a thousand 419 bakers registered in the register with an annual production of 133 thousand tonnes of bread is a clear indication of the need to adopt these amendments and supplement the laws and sublaws listed in the same proposal, in particular the Regulation on the quantities of flour used for the production of certain bakery products. In spite of the irregularities observed, the inspectorate has so far had no legal basis to punish cash and irregularities. The amendments and additions to the Law on special conditions of placing flour on the market with a final proposal for the law have allowed the inspection to sanction bakeries both legally and physically, and also to confiscate the property benefit illegally acquired as well as the safeguard measure of the prohibition of activity. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that these amendments and amendments to the laws will close the circle of control and control of the gray market from wheat through flour and bakery products and we are confident that much of the money will be poured into the state budget and not into the gray economy area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46951	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46952	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! When I spoke on behalf of the club last year on behalf of the club about the scales of the grey economy in the field of bakery, it means the production of bread and pastries, and officially talked about the data for 2003 which was now shown in this bill for 2004 you were surprised by Mr. Minister, you were investigating that it was not possible, but you were well-intentioned when I said then the average means spending per capita in Croatia about 85 kilograms per capita and when I said that according to official data, 170 thousand tonnes of bread and pastures were produced in Croatia for 2003, and 370 thousand tons of bread and cakes were spent and I said that there was a value of around 2 billion kuna kuna there, the minister did not know about these data and he was really well surprised and could not believe that such a situation was. Then I said, "Well, I don't suppose that 200 thousand tons of bread fell from the sky, so it was produced in Croatia." So I'm glad now that the Ministry or the Government have come to that part even though we could have already solved it when the law was passed and I had in that part even amendments that you didn't accept because you didn't believe that such a bad situation was in this area. And it's good that we're finally getting that part, and you've seen for yourself that since 2003 the data has been exactly the same as you have now given for the 2004 data. And so we're going into an area where there's really a possibility we'll probably fill that budget out whether it's going to be 2 billion kunas at this point is difficult to say in terms of order size is up to 2 billion kunas, but we're probably going to get a good part of it. And, but in order to do so normally, it must be both a structure and an inspectorate, it must do its part of the job in a manner that is punishable by law. Now, when it comes to that part, there's no one here from the State Inspectorate, the Minister here, I'm asking what's up with that special vehicle, the truth lab? That vehicle's supposed to be decommissioned in parts. Namely, that vehicle, the truth was NATO's last equipment, the NATO Alliance's last equipment, and no one believed it, cost about a million marks at that time when it was bought. And when this vehicle went to the European customs fair, neither the Americans nor the Germans nor the English could believe that Croatia has such a vehicle a mobile laboratory that has the possibilities of an immeasurable, immeasurable possibility. I'll just tell you what the situation was and how much savings it was. Let's say the immeasurable possibilities. I, as part of the inspectorate, led part of an inspection involving the control of the armed forces. The Croatian Army also orders from the INE, orders fuel for ships, and we know that these are various, various mixtures. She asks them INA, so what kind of fuel do you want for the ships, because it's not the production of the fuel of the 98th Unleaded, Leaded, 95th or kerosene, says you have to give us for the ships, there are especially military mixtures that have to work. And they didn't know because they were more prescriptions of the former JNA. We were getting the circumstances at that time in Laura, the vehicle of truth, the lab took a sample and in five minutes it said what kind of fuel the Croatian Army should order from the INE. That's the same situation you're in right now. Look, the State Inspectorate is now going to make all these analyses, we mainly know they're big, and it's good that this rule will be passed, we support it, we know with every bread that will be exactly prescribed, black bread has that ingredient, white, rye, everything will be set normative and the situation is very simple, it comes with that truth vehicle in the bakery, take samples and in 10, 15 minutes the analysis is over. Therefore, there is a real situation, so you will not be able to be told by a baker that you bought black bread, and in fact it is not black bread and you paid more expensively for it because it is especially enriched, it is just an additional mixture and color, and it turns out to be a characteristic. So are other kinds of bread. But unfortunately, it's going to work now so the private lab, here's only on the database, let's say for 2000 when the vehicle worked, the state inspectorate saved the amount of 2 million and 891 thousand 365 kuna. According to the pattern, the processing, so the sample was spent on what the laboratory was doing alone, the vehicle of truth, 49.67 kuna, or by measuring 18.10 kuna, and it all cost State Inspectorate 408 thousand 671 kuna at that time but that the sample according to that sample, that it worked, that they were doing private laboratories as it is now working, so that would cost 3 million 420 thousand 546 kuna at that time. Here, now it's said that there's a huge mistake, and that's why I'm asking the minister, because I trust him, he's a well-intentioned man, he wants to introduce order in that area, to examine what it is, what the situation is with the vehicle of truth. Because you know why? You laugh at it, but it's a much cheaper situation for the state, so we're talking about base 2000 that it was 3 million cheaper. Now, especially since it's jurisdiction and we're going to fight the gray economy in the area, so baker's, bread and pastry production, now it's even more necessary. I don't know if it was the result, but the truth is that INA was involved in the purchase of that vehicle, but in the end the INI didn't match that vehicle. Because that vehicle found INA cheating, that's the situation. Now whether or not, it's obvious that there's a rabbit in that bush. So it's INA, watch out for INA, but, look, the situation... Come to any gas station... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Come to any gas station, take a sample, you know the situation immediately. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Was it fuel that it was unleaded, this or that gas or something else, is it that INA sells to the buyer and in all those gas stations, namely, we had a lot of situations in Croatia that because of the poor quality of the fuel, it was that cars were screwed up. And then, watch out and she had an INA obligation, of course, because she's selling bad fuel to pay for the damage. Now, that situation could be with bread. You understand? So the word is now, no, I was just Mr. Tonchi trying to prove to you the characteristics of that vehicle. And now we're going back to the question of bread and flour. It means that we at the HSP Club will support, normally we will vote in favour of this law in terms of introducing order, but I think we should see what happens to this vehicle of truth because control and supervision will be effective, timely and will not wait years for results. Because look, it was a problem and the former government,... A group of proposals for flour, for stamps, it's old, this initiative has existed for four to six years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, there's only one part that's just beginning to be realized. We also saw that through the Law on State Inspectorate a part of the problem that has already been present for 6, 7 years in Croatia and then don't be surprised when all areas of the grey economy are taken, means this area, the field of working on black, the area of everything else to really reach the amount that the annual budget is damaged annually for the amount of 12 to 15 billion kuna. And you know how much money it is and where it could be used, both in terms of pensions and health care and employment. Therefore, full support, but I say please see what happens to the vehicle of truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46953	Okay. Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so look, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic here said that the famous truck of truth is being separated but with intent, most likely, with the aim of never being put together. I mean, that's an incorrect quote, because maybe it's coming back together again, and maybe it's better than it was before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46955	Thank you. Maybe INA's baking the buns somewhere. Let's move on. HNS Club, Honorable Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46956	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In any case, the HNS and PGS club will support this Bill proposal because we think it is urgent that the gray economy that we are all talking about, which we are all hearing about as soon as possible, and in any case, it is good to introduce order in the production of bakery products. However, one thing I find a little bit of this formulation rather strange, and that's in Article 2 where it is said: "The Minister responsible for agricultural affairs will prescribe the most amount of flour spent on producing certain bakery products." Now the question here is what is right? Is it the highest or the lowest? Because if we tie to the highest, then there'll be everything in that bread and everything and if we tie to the lowest, then we know that the minimum will have to be built in. That flour in that bakery product. I think by formulating the lowest so that in any case they know how much is produced and also to protect consumers' interests. And in this case, I'm almost sure there can be a variety of scribbles and other ingredients instead of flour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46957	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46958	I thank Mr. Vice President and I am pleased to say as members of the Croatian Democratic Community that this is one of our promised promises. So when we promised to put order into the market, then we went over the wheat. That's where we set up the market. The flour, too, is now on bread. I'm glad because I come from the Crossages where one of the biggest bakery industries is "Mlinar Križevci" which will be particularly glad to have no unfair competition and that is essentially what joys in this whole business to reduce the area, in this case I'd say it's a white economy because flour is white, only when it's broken then it's gray. But in fact, illegal acquisition of money at the expense of all those who pay all obligations, pay taxes, and others are rich without investing everything in equipment or knowledge or anything else. It was sad to hear former Inspector Jordanic say in an interview that 70% of the bread, the bread trade takes place past the state's control, and I will be delighted when after the entry into force of this Act, Inspector or Director of Inspectorate Kovacevic says that 90% of the bread production is under control, and that is what I suppose we are seeking. And there'll always be those who are very inventive, so I'll say that I don't believe in this data that all these 40 have therefore given up production. Perhaps only temporarily, but what is the ingenuity of the Croatian man and entrepreneur who, at any cost, wants to earn as much as possible, I will tell you that it applies to the transport of flour where I have information, and that the inspectors should investigate and jump in to raise the price of the bag suddenly because in one of these same bags until it cracks with the same stamp when the flour is worn out again. So that the quality of the bag has improved rapidly and that it is essentially necessary to control whether it is and to what extent it really works, and it is done. The other thing is that it's those who aren't registered again at midnight roasting, midnight selling, bags hanging on boards, and I'm gonna tell you there's a baker in the country who certainly didn't report either flour or bread. They live very well. They're all very happy. And those who pay bread not at a price lower than that in the store are essentially damaging themselves because they cannot control even the weight of the bread that is sold, therefore, not even the quality. And there is room for inspections from sanitary to market and all others, but due to some false help to the socially endangered often and also because of the small environments the desire for non-refoulement allows such "incontinuity" work even though both legal producers and legal trade often called inspections because such unfair competition. So I'm talking about those who deliver bread from house to house from car to hand also contribute to the less controlled market in one part of the car. Well, regardless of whose original idea it was, right, we'd have to make an agreement between HSS and HSP, so who's the beginner of this idea? I am pleased, therefore, that the Ministry, led by Mr. Cobankovic, has proposed this short law which will therefore allow the Croatian budget and those legal producers to improve their production, all in order to protect consumers and those who pay for bakeries and all other products. I thank and support, of course, this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46959	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46960	So there's no dispute whose idea was about the gray economy and the area... It was a normal idea for HSP because it takes all the rest of them six months to six years to get there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's how you look at our election programme for the 2003 parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46961	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46962	Is that the old story of an egg or a chicken? So now I'm going to say that for one hen is older, for one egg, but in any case I won't say that this problem is much older than both HSP and HSS and that I'm glad that HDZ will finally solve it. Here, thank you. That HDZ will still get rid of him. Thank you. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46963	Thank you. Thank you. Minister of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Let me first of all thank everyone who participated in the debate, to thank all the clubs who supported the adoption of this Law which I hold very well. I will say a few words mainly for the debate of the distinguished representative of Mr Kovacevic. Yeah, it's true. I was surprised, I couldn't believe that the scales of the gray economy could be what they are. Because I just don't think anyone who's detailed about the problem is clear. But I have to say that I'm even more surprised now why, now I have to say that I'm even more surprised why no one tried to solve it before? So far, it's just been talked about, but when a certain act was to be passed, the law or so unfortunately was not passed. This government stands firm in determining the elimination of the gray economy. It is not only declarative as there have been cases before but also concrete measures by adopting certain legal acts which are subsequently subject to rules and sublegal acts which create the assumption of effective action and the work of inspection services. Normally, in this context, we can often express certain dissatisfaction with the work of inspection services. But we must also conclude that, unfortunately, inspection services for certain actions and actions do not have objections to certain legal acts and sublaws, and that, in this context, it is necessary to view and supplement these amendments and additions to this Act, which will create a presumption of the adoption of a regulation that will regulate the production and the necessary quantities of flour and certain mixtures for a particular product. And accordingly, the rest will be created for the conduct of inspection services. I would also like to say that, in the design of this Regulation, the Chamber of Commerce, the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the Cereal Community and all those involved in this chain are consulted, and I believe, accordingly, that, after the adoption and adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws, we will be able to publish a quality rule that will be in, I would also say, the function of eliminating the gray market and the conduct of inspection services. I'm glad all the clubs, I repeat, have accepted, and as for now a few words about the van of truth. The van truth is not separated he's still part of the State Inspectorate. Anyway, I didn't know this was going to be an inquiry, so I'd do it in detail, but one other time, I'll answer it in more detail, ask for information about his work from the State Inspectorate. I have the knowledge that the van of truth works, that, to the greatest extent, the patterns in the field are brought in and analyzed the patterns in the van of truth. I can also tell myself that on many occasions I've noticed lab employees coming in, coming out of that van because it's in the same yard where we have a parking lot, so here. I can tell from personal experience that the van of truth works and works. Is to the extent that I can't claim it. And I think, here, I also thank the honourable representative for raising that question, so I'm going to look for a certain report from the State Inspectorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46965	We thank the minister. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46966	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. You accept all amendments. Okay. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that, with 93 votes for and 3 abstentions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements on specific conditions for the placing of flour for the market has been adopted, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46967	- Final proposal of the Court Act, second reading of P.Z. 257. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Justice, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go. We could've done it the other way around.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46968	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're right, you could have done it the other way around, but this is still a roof law when it comes to justice. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs before you are in second reading, so as the final proposal for a new Law on Courts. In view of this second reading, he was already in the first reading thoroughly discussed, but allow me a few indications, an important indication of what is proposed by this law and, in particular, that some newspapers are in relation to the existing law. The very fact that the Law on Courts is in force, the Law on Courts passed in late '93. So far changed nine times speaks of its importance for the judiciary, but then for the overall exercise of the right of citizens to access the court. I would not say that he is talking about some wandering rather than the need for the law to be better, to be even more improved and to be in line with the needs of citizens, and on the other hand with European standards. The new Law on Courts now regulates what is normally governed by the Law on Courts, as a roof law, which is a structure, a circle, the actual jurisdiction of courts, the internal structure of courts, the internal structure of the Supreme Court, the rights and duties of judges, the conditions for the appointment and resolution of judges, and other important issues such as the issue of judicial administration. We finally distinguish between regular and specialized courts by opening up the possibility that, eventually, if it turns out, some new courts will form. However, what is important to say about this law in relation to the current law, which we hope to put beyond the scope of this law, is the expansion of citizens' rights to exercise the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Because what are the citizens asking us to do? To have the right to a trial within a reasonable period of time. Unfortunately, the fact is she neither has a need to hide, nor can she hide, this is all the analysis, statistics that court proceedings take too long. Therefore, in accordance with other constitutional law, the right of citizens to be tried within a reasonable period of time they have the right to seek the protection of that right, in our case before the Constitutional Court before they go to the European Court of Human Rights. Because of the situation I have already cited that a large number of cases and their duration objectively puts many citizens in a position to address that court, there is a danger of the regular functioning of the Constitutional Court. The example is done, and you probably saw it in the February report of the Constitutional Court, this year, the number of constitutional lawsuits filed on this basis, so because citizens believe that the procedure takes too long has been increased from 2000 to 2004 by 14 times or 18% of the proceedings and cases handled by the Constitutional Court refer to this basis, therefore to the too long duration of the court proceedings. In order to enable the Constitutional Court to function regularly, on the one hand, in order to prevent the Constitutional Court from reacting to such a case, and, on the other hand, to enable citizens to exercise the right and on this basis, to enable them to resolve their request within a reasonable period of time, it is proposed that citizens may submit such a request directly to a higher court in the area of jurisdiction of the municipal court where they consider that the proceedings are too long. In the case of a county court as a second-degree court, the citizen goes directly to the Supreme Court and only in case of a complaint, i.e. the length of proceedings before the Supreme Court or that he is not satisfied with the decision of the lower court would he seek the protection of his right before the Constitutional Court. It is also important that our goal and one segment of the judiciary which will gain more and more importance is to bring judicial practice into line and to recognise the case law as someone who also creates the right, or practice, or the achievement of citizens when it comes to the application of certain rules. We are witnessing the fact that in certain cases citizens are deprived of the right to this constitutional principle, i.e. the uniform application of the law and the unification of judicial practice for reasons which say that in certain cases, because of their otherwise natural nature, a citizen cannot go to the Supreme Court on the original legal basis. And the Supreme Court is a body that is like the highest court that has both constitutional and legal tasks to respond to this task. For example, for example, these were a series of collective, a series of claims under a collective agreement where courts from different areas of Croatia were faced with different judges and citizens could not exercise that right except that they would eventually go before the Constitutional Court. This is why it is now proposed to introduce the possibility for citizens who find themselves in such a situation to have a legal interest, to seek a word of law, i.e. to adopt a legal understanding of the Supreme Court in such situations, and the Supreme Court may, in such situations, ask the courts against, which have such proceedings until they have reached a decision to stop the proceedings. Furthermore, what is an important segment does not directly affect the trial and decision-making itself, but it is important for the functioning of the court and the judiciary as a whole. It's a rationally effective judicial and judicial administration. The judges are, they must and will remain independent in the sense that their independence is guaranteed when they make court decisions. But we are all before the public court, including the judges, so they must also be on the one hand responsible to the public for professionally carrying out their duties on the one hand, and on the other hand, I am putting emphasis here on the presidents of judges, but when the presidents of the courts are responsible for the judicial administration, so the way in which the judicial administration takes place is extremely important for an unlimited work of the court and in this segment the importance of judicial and judicial administration is extremely important. Recognizing this need not as some criminal expedition but as the need for all to contribute, and the Ministry of Justice can give it through the control of the work of the judicial, or judicial administration, so all that goes into the regular conduct of affairs in the financial business and organisation of work, the inclusion of representation and complaints of citizens, the Ministry of Justice will establish a special judicial inspection institution. It, as a judicial administration and control, already existed in the applicable law, and stressing that particular segment, a judicial inspection to be carried out by judicial advisers at the Ministry of Justice is established. As part of this judicial inspection of the intention and the intention that something already exists in the law, we further strengthen it. Why? Because the question is who can carry out that judicial inspection. So the best can be done by those who know how the court works and works, and we will use the opportunity that has already existed since the start of the Law on Courts in force, of course the law of 93, that judges who are interested, of course with their consent, can come to the Ministry of Justice and hope that some of them will find themselves offered and motivated for this segment of the ministry, so to work in the judicial inspection. When I spoke about the responsibility of judges, then it is necessary to say that there is a strict responsibility of judges, they are also subject to the evaluations of their work, their quality, their professional performance, and this section is further under discussion in this law. It is also proposed by law that judges should submit information about their property and it is a newspaper of the current law, but the tasks of all of us, and thus judges are assumed to know the law, to know the case law, but all of us who work must follow what is happening. There is often a change in the law, we are now approaching the European Union, we need to get acquainted with new regulations, and one permanent professional education, professional development and the improvement of judges is imperative, and therefore there is an emphasis in the law and it is taken as a reason to promote them, i.e. to assess their work. All of us, all of us who perform certain professional duties under the public eye, and the public has the right to know and to know about the work of these bodies, means even courts. However, recognising the need for courts to be opened on the one hand, on the other hand, to enable better communication and ways of information to be objective and regular about the work of the court, and on certain cases which are of interest to the public, it is proposed to lay down by law the Institute of Speakers. It may be the President's court, may be a judge or judicial advisor who will pass a certain education, shows one motivation and desire, has a communicative capacity to inform about the work of the court. It's in short terms what's the content of this law, I hope I haven't missed anything important. The applicant took note of all objections and, that is, most of the objections and proposals made by individual representatives or club representatives. Thus, the provisions on the appointment and resolution of judges who were relocated from the Courts Act to amendments and additions, i.e. the Law on the State Judicial Council, have been returned to this law and are now re-emerged in the Law on Courts. That was the objection of the Justice Committee. It is accepted to point out that the Supreme Court, although it is the highest court and it is clear that such a constitutional category is considered a regular court. The provisions relating to the powers of the Justice Committee have been clarified when it gives an opinion to individual candidates and a series of other amendments that seem to be improving and clarifying the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46969	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Justice Committee, the esteemed representative of Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46970	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament at the 31st session held on 4 October 2005 on the Final Proposal for a Law on Courts tabled by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 15 September 2005. The Committee considered the basis of Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, draft law in the capacity of the home working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative briefly referred to the differences contained in the final proposal, resulting from the adoption of the proposal and the application of the bill. I am pleased to conclude, on behalf of the Committee, that the applicant has accepted all the objections made by the Justice Committee in the draft law in the first reading, except for the proposal of the Committee concerning the existing provisions governing the immunity of judges, which was not adopted by the Proposer because the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a negative opinion. In the debate, the committee members supported the final draft law with the following comments and proposals. It is proposed to review the provision of Article 8 as it narrows the immunity of judges in relation to the existing provision of Article 9. Court law. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia contains in Article 121 a provision that reads: "The Judges have immunity under the law", this gives the possibility and actually an obligation to develop the scope of immunity precisely by this law. The position on the question of the immunity of judges also took over the general session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and delivered it to the Committee and the Proposer. The opinion of the Committee is that the provision of Article 26 is unclear, and the reasoning is wrong and that the words "judgmental administrations" should be deleted from it, as the supervision of the judicial administration is regulated in Article 62. In the direction of improving the said provision, the Committee suggests that Article 26 should be amended in such a way that the same provision reads: "The President of the High Court may, in order to assist in overseeing the conduct of the proceedings of the judge, appoint two or more judges. The provisions of Article 37 shall stipulate, inter alia, that the Judicial Council shall give an assessment of the conduct of its duties. The opinion is that when assessing the conduct of the judicial duties, the Judicial Council should consult the Presidents of the Courts in particular when assessing judges of municipal courts. In the light of Article 63, the words "judgments" should be deleted as judicial inspectors carry out judicial investigations in the courts. In Article 74(4) and Article 6 it is necessary to align the conditions of appointment of university professors of legal science for judges of regular and specialised courts. Finally, the disagreement of Article 109(3) with the provisions of Article 112(1) is suggested in a way that the same provision reads: "The President of the Court shall appoint a minister of justice among the candidates for which the Judicial Council has established that they meet the conditions for the President of the Court. The President of the Proposer, pointing out the proposals and objections to the provisions on the final draft law, pointed out that the proposals would be carefully considered and the proposals on Article 8 and Article 26 of the amendments to the applicants. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided, with seven votes in favour, one vote against and one abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46971	Thank you. The other committees, no more committee reporters? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46972	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, The SDP Club expected this Final Proposal of the Law on Courts with great expectation and is thus disappointed with it that it cannot support it. Not because some solutions are not some progress, but in any case, given the existing solution, given the frequent changes and the obvious need for practice to force and what kind of court the public, and also the professional public, it was expected that such changes would be made. That's why we're assessing at the SDP Club that this bill is truly uninventional and unambitious in that sense. Because it does not solve those key problems that are manifested in the work of the judicial authority and which often embarrass the judicial authority as a whole, and hence any other authority, or executive authority, which is ultimately again responsible for the orderly and efficient functioning of the judicial authority. This is one of the, uh, why this particular thing, maybe we're strict on the assessment of this law. Because it was just an opportunity to sort of remove those objections that appear in public. There may be an objection to why it hasn't been done before. Here you can see how many times this Law has been changed and just these very frequent changes have just been on the trail of this patsy and coughing for a situation that has simply been imposed by practice, and in the end there might not have been enough courage to, I don't know why. Because I think that regardless of the position and opposition, we would give confirmation to such a law that, I say, would remove legitimate objections to the public. When in one country, in a transition country that properly implemented judicial reform, when their leader in law enforcement, the Supreme Court asked how did you do it? Then he answered very simply. "Here," he says, "before the party's reform came to court, knocked, when they opened themselves there was no judge, the judge was not at work. After the judicial reform has been carried out, each judge is in his place of work and is doing his job neatly." And why am I saying this? It may be incomprehensible, but the past power also faced this, and it was even an observation that the judge, namely that his independence goes to such an extent that he is not obliged to account for the president of the court, let alone anyone else, where he goes. Thus, in order for such things not to happen, they needed to react differently and more seriously. It's not done. In addition, whether the government is really going to take it seriously, and even these, some less important but in any case good solutions, it is questionable. Why? Because here, later, as it is a final proposal, and specifically speaking about certain provisions, but here, following an explanation of certain provisions, as is the legal obligation for each proposal and for the final proposal, is the assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of the law. It is pointed out that the implementation of this Act does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget, and that is not true. Because several provisions just indicate what the funds, which are the costs resulting from the application, are meant for the state budget if these provisions are applied. Or they, these provisions, will not be applied because then neither such small or minor changes benefit themselves. Perhaps I should take a moment and take a closer look at the specific remarks. Article 8 refers to immunity, and it is particularly stressed that this immunity is not, of course, related to the violation of the law by judges who are a criminal offence. However, the violation of the law by judges back in '97 mysteriously disappeared from our criminal law, during the coalition government, was incorporated into that significant novel of the Penal Code. But since the law has been abolished, it is not possible to return to a criminal act that is very specific and that removes different misunderstandings. As it is now set, it can be thought that there is a special norm, or special incrimination, especially a criminal act that bears the term "infringing of the law by a judge", but it does not exist, so such abuses are incriminating, or subsuming under a provision that otherwise applies to other authorised persons, which is certainly inaccurate. But it's not enough, for example, a crime can also be about taking bribes, and Article 8 does not mean such a case. Article 10 discusses the reduction of individual cases and it is absolutely unnecessary that the President of the Supreme Court himself does not decide to do so. Such trust must certainly be given by the legislator because a general session is required here, so all Supreme Court judges are engaged. The Supreme Court is so crowded that it really needs to think about how it will work in practice. Very soon, the President of the Supreme Court will respond. This will bury the court and therefore precisely in the intensities, the good intensities to speed things up, precisely from, in a way that will be transferred from burdened to a less burdened court will result in unplanned closure of the Supreme Court with such cases. See, this particular provision in paragraph 5 of Article 10 which speaks precisely about the transfer of the case from a burdened case to a less burdened court tells us that the State will, therefore, be compensated from the state budget to the parties. The cost of transportation, the cost of living, the withdrawal of a lawyer from his office at the time. And that's not a very small cost. So it's a very good norm that we've already had and in changes, here in the new law it is now incorporated. Which shows how good things are and how much they cost. The question, therefore, is whether it will be applied and applied if the proposings say they will not already provide the funds, i.e. that there is no need to secure the funds at all. Article 11 is certainly too narrow because we should also imagine situations for our courts and foreign administrative authorities to provide legal assistance. Well, then, in that sense, that should be specified. It is very unusual that here in the formation of courts specialized courts are called misdemeanor courts, commercial courts, high court of law. That would mean somehow, it would create the impression that we have these regular courts, and then, from their jurisdiction, they specialize, these special courts, which, within the specific branches of their trial, specialise in it. And it's not exactly like that, it's not like that. Here, the administrative court is just assessing the legality of the government's body, regardless of who's on the other side, whether as a prosecutor or a prosecutor. Therefore, it is simply not about specialized courts. Especially before we can handle it, we need to be very careful in using this concept of what both family and strategy and strategy for combating violence and family law point to where it is necessary if not specially specialised family courts then certainly establish special departments. In this regard, therefore, it would be specialised departments, i.e. specialised courts. Or for labour disputes, which is what the public, or unions expect. But for starters, that will certainly be enough to do so within the department. Therefore, there is no way to say here that it is the Criminal Court, the High Court of Commerce and the Administrative Court that these are specialised courts. Article 15 is inaccurate. He doesn't seem like this at first sight, but in practice he can make big recommendations. A provision... that the courts judge in their headquarters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Courts also judge at the site of the dispute, and that place of dispute sometimes does not have to be the court's seat, but may be in another county where the local jurisdiction of the second court is. If this is the case as a basic provision, then it is certain that these exceptions should also be specified in the paragraph. The big doubts will trigger the possibility, not actually the possibility, but the application of the provisions of Article 17(2) if it comes to the unification of not only a few misdemeanor courts, which is a minor problem, but we see further what the law does, the bill allows both the municipal and the criminal court to be united. This requires not only the question of the administration, the question of the president, but also a whole series of other things that cannot be solved by some specific law but are possible, but also the indications of a solution in this final proposal have to be given. Article 26, here's what we're seeing, has already caused a big fight. But here I think we should give great support to a government that didn't go with such a proposal as it was made public. Of course, they're contradictory, they're given contradictory explanations. When the public requires that some things be revealed, revealed, and then they ask themselves, the public often asks if it was not possible to do so before. How could some things have been hidden and hidden in courts for a long time? Then we also received from the government, including the Minister himself, the Resoring Ministry, an explanation that judicial inspectors are just being introduced to put an end to it. Then, on the other hand, a judicial association appeared. It's a threat to our, our immunity, it's an attack on the independence of the judiciary. Then the ministry called again and said not only about management, we will not touch specific cases. I think this is no longer the time for us to please the populists of this group or that group, but to clear things up to the end, together. Of course, esteeming as the supreme and fundamental value, not only of itself, the judicial authorities themselves, but of our constitutional provisions on the independence of the court and of course of individual judges. But in any case, some powers, and they're very specific, then they have to be determined. In this law here, such solutions are not offered, it will again only come down to management, and that is not good. When a concrete response is made, in a specific case, it should certainly be very careful to achieve this objective of necessary and objective control without being affected by the independence of the judiciary. It's not easy to achieve and you didn't do it here with success and it won't be anything. And I'm saying, it's not easy to streamline such a single norm. Protecting the right to trial within a reasonable period, it's a new institute. But what does it accomplish? That a party in a court proceedings which has been pending has the right to appeal or to make a complaint, something very similar, to a higher court, and to complain later on. So very quickly we'll be buried, or multiple, I'd say, double the number of lags. So instead of a million and 500 lags, we're going to get 3,000 cases very quickly because there's no one who won't complain. And then they will be buried in their own higher courts which, in some ways, give them the role to be promoters of development, the development of the judicial authority, the resolution of the backlogs and the many difficulties facing the judicial authority. This may be a good idea, but it's just going to fall back on the courts and it's going to bury them again, I say, especially more courts and the Supreme Court itself. Here you see, even the court will charge, or approve of the parties' teams that it finds the lower courts have long judged and fair compensation. I'm sure it takes a lot of, uh, huge resources, not any resources. And here's the bottom line. What's very important, and that's the question of assessing the work of the judges themselves. So it cannot be done by voting by a secret vote when there are only relevant objective criteria as they are set up. Therefore, it is necessary to delete this provision of a secret vote, because in a secret vote, unfortunately, the best judges do not pass for competition. Something very similar to political life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46973	Thank you very much. SDSS representative club, respected representative of Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46974	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll say a few things on behalf of the club in five, six points about the questions I think they deserve to comment on. First of all, this question of the principles that establish this law. The law establishes the following principles which are very high in scope and says that it is independence, impartiality, justice and action within a reasonable period of time. Of course I agree that this should go away, and of course I agree that this is the ultimate goal that needs to be achieved. I think that we can agree that these principles are not now being implemented in practice because otherwise we would not call for what is spoken as the functioning of the rule of law, as the efficiency of the system, as well as so on. So it is clear that we have not reached those principles. I'm not surprised why we didn't make it. But it just needs to be kept in mind. So these principles do not, in practice, apply in large, large cases. Why am I saying this? Why do I think it's important? It is important to understand that this law is now establishing a good framework, from this principle point of view a good framework and that only by a model that would be called let's just go apply the law and we will get the achievement of these principles can't be done, the goal cannot be achieved. What's the big deal? awareness and attitude must be built in a society that supports this principle and achieves them as a goal. Secondly, what I think is important, inside the judiciary, there must be a practice that dominates these principles further, what I think is particularly important, and why I don't think at this point we have a satisfactory assessment that is that in judicial circles we need to achieve both consciousness and courage in practical behavior when it comes to trial, every judge wants to pursue it. We often say and rightly say the judiciary is and the judges are independent and the point. There's no dispute here. But you know, and that independence is actually conditioned and conditioned by quality and independence can't be an alibi for me to do as I please, to do below the criteria. I think that there is now an independence of the judiciary and justification for ata independence there is one gap in two or three things. Judges have relatively decent salaries, have renaissance functions and defend themselves both in both Czech and individual terms, and this is not in line with the urgency and judicial courage that they now express in their actions. I simply point out this as a hindrance, not because I now call this profession up and down, but because the judicial profession must also help from having its inner weaknesses and that it must first accept the position that those initial principles have not been realized and that we all together, and judges or first of all have to fight for it in order to achieve or get social support on that relationship. The second thing I want to comment on, it's a matter of protection to the trial within a reasonable time frame. You, Madam Secretary of State, said yourself, is the best inspection within the court and I agree with that. But you see, this proposal here establishes this discussion of the trial within a reasonable period of time as an important institute. That means he's setting up an institute to control this thing. He still says when there's a big backlog, then someone has to order him to get rid of it urgently. So the urgency of acting. And the third thing, he says if someone were to hurt her with it, he'd have to be compensated from the state register and paid him some kind of a fee. When you simplify it completely, then you will get the situation that the non-resolvement within a reasonable period will finally end up with, say, the Constitutional Court deciding that someone should be paid a fee, and then we will only have budgetary damage. Why did I mention this to yours that you should see that thing inside the court. Except for this scheme that I've just said, so besides these consequences, I haven't found here, and I'd even dare say a formal mechanism to do something about this within the system. And that's why I miss it. So I think, I miss the mechanism inside the court, and I thought of the next few things. There's one occasional inventory missing in court at some time, in a year, in three months, what I know at what time. We're missing a conversation about this, out of the thousands of cases we have in court, can we see in that inventory how many there are with a marked degree of urgency, how many of them there are that we can easily resolve? I guess there's an internal inventory in this thing that can help to keep things out of sight without need. Further, to see what it is, to make at that interval an examination by age, how old the object is. To see an emergency review individually by departments, which I know how. You know exactly how. And that analysis, analysis and control of the urgency of this number of cases that we have and that in some way, it does not have to be even formally, but that responsibility, public conversations and responsibility are installed in the relations between judges and why some of the items stand the most individually. And if you set up such a conversation, I think that this would simply have no responsibility for non-resolvement within a reasonable period of time with the judges in which the problem was produced. So he's switching to the state budget, I don't know whose budget. And I think you can talk about the next one. What about the court president's responsibility in such cases? I think he's the president and so let's see how we stand with that. And if my colleague Anticevic had the right, if we put the whole thing in place just for this, I'm complaining, so I get some cash compensation, then that thing might be more damage than good. The third thing I want to comment on here is this matter of speaking in court. I understand that communication with the public is either every Monday or every month or I don't know at what time. That if you want to make sense in principle, but in the courts you have specificity, the court is a specific institution. The procedure and data individually bear some kind or some degree of discretion and decision, the final decision in the process is the discretionary position of the judge and when you go now to talk to the media and the spokesman actually there is not much talk but some general story. And if that's the case, then that means that for public communication, and I'm looking at it through that purpose, there are only specific and few questions left, and it seems to me that it's enough for once for the president of the court to spray himself in front of the public and say what he has to say and I just believe that because of what I've said, I believe I have a right. That the President of the Court is sufficient in that contact and that the press in the court is now excess. The fourth thing I want to comment on, that's the question of the Judicial Council. I understand the judiciary councils, the democracy in decision-making, I know and theirs, so this general responsibility is to monitor the situation, so this law actually speaks first of all about the Court Councils assessing the conduct of the judicial duty and that is, if you start from the beginning, that's a pretty big goal set up by that attitude. But after that, you have nothing to do with the bill, the assessment in this section, you only have the technology of selecting the judicial councils, and you don't have what they would do in assessing the conduct of a judicial duty. And now if I connect that to what I was talking about earlier, within a reasonable time, responsibility, etc. Then the Council of Judges here according to what I read in this proposal, they didn't get the task of controlling it, and it seems that if it starts from the beginning, then that's what they should do. And, not the fifth thing, it speaks in the law, and it actually creates one tendency for different decisions to be made through courts in practice, finally by agreeing equally. So it's a matter of equating court practice. That's what I think a pretty good goal is and it deserves to be paid attention. Otherwise, I think that unifying court practice is best achieved through consistent law enforcement, but I like this desire in the law to establish and implement some decision-sharing mechanisms. That would be a good mirror of the judiciary. And the sixth thing I mention here is this, the application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. We're on the Committee on Human Rights, etc. And besides that, we suggested, but the proposer's representative in those talks had no ear for it, and I can see that it didn't come in. It is therefore that this law should standardise the application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities on Proportional Participation. Why is that necessary? Because they've told us everywhere that what the Constitutional Law says about the rights of national minorities is not valid unless it's regulated in a special law. And I have to say that if that doesn't work out, and I think that might be quite elegantly complemented in Article 74. And if it wasn't for us from our club we wouldn't support it, we could support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46975	Thank you. HDZ club respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46976	Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Courts. In fact, the uncontested justification for the adoption of the Law on Courts does not come only from the fact that the applicable law was passed on 30 December 1993 and has since been amended and supplemented several times already, and because of the obvious need of a new, therefore different normative arrangement and a new approach to the exercise of judicial duties on the one hand and cases of judicial administration on the other. The maturity of this regulation has just been contained in those provisions of the laws which guarantee and actually elaborate the constitutional principle contained in Article 117. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, by ensuring the independence and independence of the judicial authority, is precisely in such a way that no one or anyone has the right to interfere with the decision of the judges or in any way by pressuring the decision-making process. However, it should be pointed out that this regulation discusses the relationship of responsibility for the effective exercise of judicial duty seen through the citizens' imperative to exercise their rights to judicial protection within a reasonable period of time. It is precisely this newspaper that is absolutely a positive shift and one of the essential elements of the Croatian judiciary reform should be highlighted and related to concrete legal provisions. The proposed Article 26, i.e. beyond the proposed Article 26, is also added to the whole of the Head, so the regulation under the heading "Protect the right to trial within a reasonable period" and the articles 27 and 28 are detailed in this Institute. This is not just about constitutional protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms or personal and political freedoms and rights contained in the constitutional provision of Article 29. Therefore, each person has the right to decide, within a reasonable period, on his rights and obligations, either on suspicion or on charges of criminal offence, by means of a law established by an independent and impartial court, because the definition of infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, indicates that, in essence, this concept hides undue delay in the conduct of proceedings, as well as the adoption of concrete judicial decisions. The violation of this right comes as a result of the activities or actions of obvious courts, and it was precisely the courts that were regularly or specialised as the institutions most responsible for the exercise and protection of that right. The proposed legislative solutions regulate the powers to decide on the protection of the right and the trial within a reasonable period in such a way that even the role of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia are regulated in a specific way and legally justified manner by the nature, characteristics and jurisdiction and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in a truly quality way when it comes to the development of this institute. Therefore, an application for the protection of injured rights shall be submitted directly to a higher court or tribunal which is objecting to undue delay in deciding whether or not it is regular or specialised courts and the possibility of applying to the Supreme Court. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The constitutional law of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, therefore the institution of filing constitutional action as a means of protection exists after the previous legal path used, noting that Article 27(3) is just mentioned, the urgency of the action in terms of the submission of the claims in question, regardless of what court protection of that right is sought. However, here, as mentioned above, there should be no concern that the constitutional principle of independence and independence of the judicial authority should be highlighted as follows. First, if, on request, it is established that the court before which the proceedings under investigation have been unduly delayed by the conduct of the proceedings and the decision is authorised to set a time limit within which that court must decide in the dispute. Secondly, a lower court order applies only to the deadline. So, I repeat, only on time but not in a way of deciding in a concrete dispute. Third, if the court adopts a claim for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time or if it finds that the applicant has been injured by the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, it will determine the applicant and the appropriate compensation for infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, which was already sufficient in the previous discussions. Fourthly, in the appeal procedure, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia decides and the applicant would not have the right to appeal only when the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia decides, upon request as a first-degree court. However, against the Supreme Court decision, a dissatisfied party has the possibility to protect its potentially injured right within 30 days of delivery of the decision by filing a constitutional suit to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, in this context, the provision of Article 10(2) of the proposed law or the possibility that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia may, with the prior opinion of the General Meeting of the Court of Justice, determine that in a particular type of case, another really competent court is acting if a court which is really and locally competent because of a large number of cases which are in operation cannot discuss these cases within a reasonable period of time and decide. So it's essentially the same thing that was worked out with two really quality legal institutes. One refers to a reasonable trial and the other also continues to take place at the institute but as the possibility of adjudicating cases to those courts that are less burdened with the cases themselves. What I really want to highlight as an important thing in the Law on Courts in this proposed law is, therefore, the supervision of the judicial administration or the introduction of a judicial inspection by judges at work at the Ministry of Justice, which is the basis of Article 61, has the authority of the highest judicial authority on the one hand but also the possibility of overseeing the judicial administration by senior courts clearly constitute normative solutions based on which the effectiveness of the conduct of Croatian courts will be increased. Reduce the time needed to decide in specific cases, reduce the number of cases in court resolution, and ultimately ensure better functioning of the judiciary as a whole. From these last sentences, either the last sentences just come out or are listed all of those really problems that the Croatian judiciary is currently burdened with and are also explained by the institutes, i.e. which are translated into the Law on Courts and therefore the way in which specific problems in terms of the functioning of the judiciary and the basis of this Law and legal solutions will therefore be resolved. Finally, on the basis of this Law, and this was already the case in the debates, therefore, on the classification, i.e. the division of courts, i.e. how these laws are shared, the courts in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, that it is acceptable to divide into regular courts and specialised courts because municipal, county courts are, of course, regular courts, while specialised courts and criminal and commercial and high criminal courts of the Republic of Croatia, the High Commercial Court of the Republic, and the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. This classification or classification of courts from legal, logical and factual sides does not need to be explained because it is indeed in the classification of courts according to activity itself, jurisdiction best corresponds to the picture or in the way that the courts themselves should be classified in the Republic of Croatia. However, behind these legal solutions and these resolutions, concrete solutions in the Law itself, it is possible, i.e. to provide for the possibility of the establishment of other regular and specialised courts. And it seems to us that this fact really needs to be pointed out for certain areas. And, of course, the law also provides for the possibility of bringing together criminal and municipal courts as a possibility to rationalise the network of courts in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And right there, the future rationalisation and network of courts and the possibility of merger, therefore, municipal and misdemeanor courts, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community also defines, assesses as one of the quality solutions... which in this sense goes to the reform of the Croatian judiciary, surely towards one better, one more rational, more efficient and professional, in this sense and division of cases in fact solving court cases that appear regardless of the matter of municipal or criminal courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, in the Law itself, it is indeed necessary to highlight those legal institutes that represent new solutions on the one hand but quality legal institutes, so in the Law on Courts itself, which will unequivocally lead to better solutions in the organisation, the functioning of courts and thus, or ultimately, to address these problems that we are talking about in the Croatian judiciary. So let's move forward, I will single out only some of them, or those who, in terms of the debate on the very concrete law, have made themselves extremely important to us. So no doubt it is the institution of the permanent service of the court, i.e. the possibility of organising services outside the area of the courts themselves or in the manner provided for by the law. The Institute or the possibility was also developed, therefore, by the project itself, by the pilot of the courts that had already been spoken about and in terms of the debate on the very concrete solution in the Law. On the speaking or the possibility of introducing spokeswoman in courts, therefore, one specific relationship or communication of courts with the public is recognized as a new legal solution indeed as a quality solution but really more quality than the situation we have in that segment today, and I think that a lot of misunderstandings in relation to the public and the work of the courts will be the introduction of this institute, or perhaps a failure to report or an inadequate communication in terms of work and of courts and judges with the public, that is one of the new, new institutes where they are certainly the basis for these problems, problems being solved. As regards the uniform application of the law, we also underline this occasion the role of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia who would have had the basis of this law and one additional, additional legal foothold as the highest court to worry about the uniform application of the law as well as one of the problems in the Croatian judiciary. Here is the institute where the problem within the Croatian judiciary can be properly resolved. I would mention only two more newspapers and I think they're very important, it's the education of judges as an obligation, indeed as a legal obligation, and I would also mention this occasion a code of judicial ethics that is being introduced as an institute in the Court Act itself. So, both constantly, therefore, training, constantly, continuous education of judges in terms of quality of performing judicial duty on the one hand, but of course and whenever we talk about the judicial duty to adhere to the code of judicial ethics that are indeed, they appear as imperative in terms of the implementation of this Act and, of course, in the conduct of the judicial duty. And finally, allow me just a few sentences concerning immunity, judicial immunity, or as it is proposed in the law itself, as compared to Article 121. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where judicial immunity is therefore defined as a specific, therefore, constitutional category. We tend to resort to those opinions that go to the fact that the constitutional provisions are not literally prescribed in the law, because the constitutional provision also says that a special law will develop the immunity of the judges themselves, so on that basis, unequivocally, therefore, the amendment intervention and this provision of the article will improve, which regulates and judicial immunity. Accordingly, this Law is indeed a quality solution, as a solution that will contribute to improving the efficiency of the justice of the Republic of Croatia as a whole, should absolutely be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46977	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46978	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A lot of good should actually be said in the intensities of the legislators of this Law, above all because of the respect of the profession and the parliamentary bodies for all that has been incorporated from the first reading to the second reading in the bill. It is an apparent new wind in the functioning of the Croatian government and should be commended. In particular, because the MPs' remarks were respected, not only the representatives of the ruling party, but also the representatives of this party and such a bill received one whole which is, so to speak, respectable. The introduction of a new institute of trial should also be highlighted within a reasonable period of time, which appears in Article 4 and then discusses in Chapter 3. The law. Although, to all this expensive objective observer might also make some remarks I will try to list some of them that we have agreed on at the HNS Club. Unfortunately, in the text of the law, some things that have been unsaid so far remain unsaid. Especially some of whom the public has objections, about which there have been public confrontations and even ugly words and threats to sanctions. It is about Article 6 and the impact on courts. Article 6 clearly states that the influence on judicial decisions must not be, however, said nothing about how, when and who can comment on judicial decisions? We had a recent opportunity to listen to the Prime Minister and see him on TV commenting on an inadmissible court decision. I don't think he did anything wrong. I think it is legal and legitimate and I think that it belongs to every Croatian citizen and also to the MPs in this House regardless of how it reacts to, to any comments of court decisions most often in a sentence: it is not our place to engage in judicial power. It's not up to us to get involved in the judiciary, but it is on us and it should be up to us to comment on what we find to be bad and narcissistic in this country, even if it's a court decision. In Chapter 3, Chapter 2 sets out the formation of courts in Croatia, so from the Municipal Court to specialised courts and in point 5. again, one indeterminate in my opinion is something that will have to be corrected in the very near future. The possibility of opening or setting up further specialised courts in specific areas has been opened. It seems to me that, in this part of the law, it was meant to put not only the possibility but also the obligation to establish working-law courts. For a long time, it has been discussed in this assembly, and before that it has been discussed. And there is one general opinion in the public and statistics that confirms that it is these disputes that are the most hampered by the work of the courts, or the most accumulated, the longest length of time and have consequences for those, according to them, that part of the population that can at least be protected from the will of employers or someone in that position. So the workers whose rights are in fact compromised and in some way injured. Specialized courts in this area are absolutely safe to be useful and should not be afraid of the facts that once existed in the courts of joint labor and have someone call us: Yeah, you are going back to the courts of joint work. No more joint work, but labour, labour disputes still exist today. Work disputes should also be settled and specialised courts would certainly help. Chapter 3 speaks of this famous reasonable period. Finally, the pressures and the domestic public and the fact that some of the procedures from Croatia are being moved to international courts that judge for the benefit of citizens, damaged citizens because of the crazy expiry of the deadline, because our courts simply did not function within a reasonable period of time but did not function. The intensity's good. The intensity should be commended. It might be good to quantify it in some way but if it is possible to quantify it, I don't know this time in what way, but in some ways, that intensity should be quantified and the reasonable time limit should be set in some kind of, in some kind of line for certain types of cases. Article 35 discusses the harmonisation of case law. Okay, well, it's good that court practice is evened, that with the same thing as the same argument, the same evidence doesn't make two equally different judgments, but is it really necessary that in such an explicit way in the law it can be hip to conformism? I'm not quite sure. I think the judges should still have enough freedom not to force them to go back to, on a case they solved the way they solved it even if it's falling away from, say, current court practice. In Article 36, another positive newspaper that will cost apropo some money. The information of the judiciary and courts is discussed and the article says that in courts, courts can set up departments for information. I think the time has come for the courts to commit themselves to establishing the information departments and to be necessarily informed. Well, I guess nobody can do it anymore, can't work with typewriters or computers like typewriters that aren't connected to some kind of smart system. Something that made me uncomfortable were articles 53 and 54, where the Supreme Court secretary appears as a state official. It was the subject of amending and supplementing this same law a few months ago. So the Supreme Court secretary is a person with the status of a state official appointed by the President of the Supreme Court. So the President of the Supreme Court appoints a state official. It seems rather remote from logic and from the principles of the democratic functioning of society. The article 69 discusses a valuable initiative that has been going through the public for a long time. That judges in court appear in judicial uniforms that mass of countries in the world have. There is no deadline, unfortunately. Obviously, budget cuts prevent it. I think it'd be good to get some kind of deadline to do that. I'm not saying that this would raise the efficiency of the judiciary, that it would raise even the integrity of the judiciary, but it would establish one, one good tradition that would be worth establishing and that, through a certain, certain number of years, would certainly produce results on the court's agenda, if you will. This law should be commended because this is the first law that I have seen in, since the adoption of the Law on Higher Education, in which an explicit act has been adopted, except in one place, a new nomenclature of occupation in accordance with the Law on scientific work and higher education. Over and over again, the law speaks of people who graduated from law school. So a new nomenclature. I don't know why this can't be done in other legal proposals that we're getting built on, so, yes, to know which of the newly educated experts will be able to do certain jobs. Obviously you can't. This is where it was done. And another remark that I am not quite sure about is the observation, but in Article 108, the code is very detailed. The code should be mentioned in the law, of course. The only question is whether in such a way and given with so much detail, whether the development of all the code settings and the way in which the code is adopted is a place in the law or whether such things should be put in place for sublegal acts. For the simple reason that sublegal acts... It's simple to change, and the law doesn't quite work like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But all in all, the saying of this law is acceptable, the intensity is good and the HNS club will accept this law. They'll vote for this bill. The question raised as with most of our laws, especially those concerning the functioning of the judicial system, is not the question of the saying of the law. It's a good saying. It's a matter of practice and implementation whether this is really going to come to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46979	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46980	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vuljanic says the prime minister recently commented on an unlawful verdict and there is nothing illegal about it. Unfortunately, this is not true, it is illegal and under the applicable Law on Courts, it will also be illegal under this new law if Article 6 is not amended, that is illegal and in accordance with Article 309(2) and (3). Penal Code and all of these are provisions that should be amended so that in the future not only the prime minister but the general public can make public their position on the work or the lack of the work of the courts, because courts are only the bodies of the public authorities. One of the kind of body of public authority. But that's what I'm going to discuss in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46981	And I'll do it right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46982	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The work of courts, as well as any other public authorities, must be public. It must be made available to the public and subject to public court. There are two rights that are equally valuable. Rove is entitled to a fair trial within a reasonable time. It is defined here in Article 4 of the Law, and it reads: "Everyone has the right, by law, to establish by law an independent and impartial court justly and within a reasonable time, to decide on his rights and obligations or on suspicion or charges of criminal offence." This is what the 29th Croatian Constitution literally reads. It's a prescribed constitutional norm. In the same way, it is also a provision of 6.1. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And so it's undeniable, it's the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time. In parallel with this right, it also insists on a second right to information and free opinion. And that right is defined in our Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into The constitution states: "The freedom of opinion and expression of thought is guaranteed.". Freedom of expression of thought includes, in particular, freedom of press and other means of communication, freedom of speech and public appearance and the free establishment of all public communications institutions. Censorship is prohibited, journalists have the right to freedom of reporting and access to information. In the same way, the European Convention also speaks of its provision of 10.1. which reads: "Everyone has the right to freedom of expression.". This right includes freedom of opinion and freedom to receive and disseminate information and ideas without interference of public authorities and regardless of borders. As the achievement of these freedoms covers duties and responsibilities, it may be subject to formalities, conditions, restrictions or penalties prescribed by law which are necessary in a democratic society for the sake of the interest of state security, territorial integrity or public order and peace, in order to prevent disorder or crime, to protect health or morals, to protect the reputation or rights of others, in order to prevent confidential information or, I stress, to preserve the authority and impartiality of the judicial authority. It means limiting freedom of expression from the European Convention, in this provision 10.1. which I have read, is only possible if it is necessary to protect all the values listed, including the value of preserving the authority and impartiality of the judicial authority, because that is the value. Now, let us take the proposed law of Article 6(1), which states: "Every form of influence on the decision being taken, and in particular any use of public authority, means of public communication, or at all public interventions to influence the course and outcome of court proceedings.". I wonder if such a broad restriction of freedom of giving and receiving information is necessary, as point 10.1. European Conventions. Is that necessary? What does it even mean to influence the course and outcome of the court proceedings by means of public communications? Is this one inscription, is it ten inscriptions, whether it is published in a high or low circulation list, or is it simply about the legislator seeking to keep court proceedings, especially those that are under way as far away from the public as possible. Look, judges must be able, resist what they read in the papers and judge impartially, professionally and responsibly, regardless of what the newspaper says. If they are so subject to the article in the paper, they cannot be judges to God. Then as a person, they're not mature enough to be held accountable. What is the practice of the European Court of Human Rights? The court has indeed tried to limit the means of public communication to inform the public of ongoing court proceedings. He pleaded the following way. Freedom of expression, the right to seek and obtain information are essential rights of democratic society. These rights and principles are particularly important whenever the press is involved, these principles are applicable also to a trial that serves the interests of society and requires cooperation, enlightened, informed to the public. There's a general understanding of the fact that courts can't work in a vacuum. Although they are dispute resolution forums, this does not mean that there can be no previous dispute debates in other places, whether in specialized magazines, whether in the press or in public in general. Furthermore, mass media, as the public informs of any area of public interest, must inform the public about cases that come before courts. Not only do the media have the necessary task of providing information. The public has the right to receive information. This view can also be found in the European Court of Human Rights ruling. The Sunday Times v. United Kingdom on November 6, 1980. Lingens v Austria, the Republic of Austria on 8 July 1986,... against the Republic of Germany on 23 September 1994 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Kraksi v. Italy on 17 October 2003. Therefore, Article 6(1), as proposed in this law does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, does not comply with provision 10.1. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is not in line with the position of the European Court of Human Rights, not in accordance with the case law of that court. To conclude, this law, as well as the laws yet to come from the government, from the Ministry of Justice should be part of the judicial reform. No, the public must be our ally. We can't win this reform of the judiciary, this battle for this reform without the public. There is no quality judiciary without high-quality judges and no quality judges without the public's right to judge their work and their unhappiness. Judges, if we want to fix the judiciary, we must not hide behind the norm that will make every comment of their work forced against the judge and treat the judges as a separate part of society. If we continue with this practice, judicial reform will be nothing. We must go to the European Union, we must adapt, agree with all these provisions that I have quoted here, and I ask you for this State Secretary, to consider the amendment that I have given you in this regard, me and other MPs, to consider it at the Government, to read it as I have now explained it and to accept it in the best faith that by allowing the public to judge the work of the judiciary as a whole, to correct the situation in our judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46983	Thank you. I'm reporting that it's time for a ten-minute debate at 18.50 on this agenda point. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46984	Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect quote of fellow Stazic, who said Article 6(1) is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That's absolutely not true. Article 6(1) states or speaks of the prohibition of any influence, hence any form of influence on the decision-making of a court, and it would indeed be unacceptable to any other solution that would permit or would not norm any influence, i.e. on the work of a judge in the sense of making a concrete decision. You're waving your hands, your whole story that you've just told is absolutely different from the basic legal principles and of course you're interpreting them the way you think they should be interpreted. I'm just going to tell you for the end, it's about correcting the incorrect assumption that one information is information, and the other is an impact on the decision-making process, a court procedure that isn't legally completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46985	Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic is finished, and then we have a still respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, but the time is up and we will continue with you tomorrow at 9.30. We've got 10 more MPs on this wheel and we're still going in line. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic first in line. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the session and the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Courts. The word has a respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46987	Thank you very much, Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on Courts, and I think that this text after the debate has passed, and on committees, I think that the text is significantly better than it was at first because a number of remarks have been adopted, which have been highlighted in the debate, and particularly on committees. As far as the law itself is concerned, I think that the best things we've actually done about the Law on Courts have been done with the latest amendments to the Law where we've actually regulated the Institute and the possibility that the President of the Supreme Court may have certain courts that are burdened by a large number of cases, some of these cases, be deployed to other courts that have fewer cases in the process. This measure, although it is of a particular auxiliary nature, has certainly led to certain improvements and has led to certain cases which have stood unresolved for many years to begin to resolve themselves. The good thing that we did with the last novel was to give greater authority to court advisers who were thus given the opportunity to participate more actively in the process and thus dissipated judges who were naturally burdened with a large number of cases. In addition, this Law introduces certain other newspapers that are in any case welcome, but most of this matter would actually be difficult to regulate, introduce some special newspapers. Because it's actually a matter that's been up for a long time and where it's hard actually to invent, to offer something special new. So the law regulates the structure of courts that have been with us for many years now. And finally, it is also common in some practice of other countries. Also regulated and jurisdictional courts in which there is nothing particularly new to add here. The internal structure, the appointment of judges, the evaluation of judges, the resolution of judges, it's all regulated by this law as a fundamental law regarding justice, and there was some newspaper that was hard to expect. But certain newspapers are anyway. These are the institution of the court's spokeswoman who is in any case welcome. In fact, a spokesman for the court will help the public to be as informed as possible about the work of our courts. Then, the Institute of Property Cards is being introduced, which all judges will also have to give, which is quite all right. And Articles 27 and 28, that is, the right to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period, which is one institute, I can say, we have to say that this institute should actually be a temporary character. And that's because the judiciary needs to actually bring that level of functioning to make it just in time unnecessary. Because this is one institute that is currently tied up in our judiciary is a million and a half unsolved cases. Some things have been really long in work and under these conditions he makes sense, he has an excuse. However, in one orderly judiciary that we are seeking, such an institute of course shouldn't have room and I hope, in fact, given all these measures that we have actually brought to the judiciary in these two years, that we are going in a good way and in a good direction. And that we will, in fact, come to that unequivocally. There is one institute to be introduced in Article 59. This is a requirement for uniform application of the law and I think there is a government and the ministry that they have actually detected the problem, that certain county courts, certain courts of the second degree, are making different decisions in the same factual and legal matters. And now this is the introduction of an institute in those cases where an extraordinary legal remedy is not allowed, so it is said that the party can apply for a uniform application of the law to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, to examine whether such decisions endanger the uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. I have to admit, it's a good idea, but it seems to me that this norm, I don't have a feeling, I don't have the impression that you could live in practice. Why? Because it is said that the legal understanding of the Office of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is mandatory for courts in all proceedings to which this legal understanding applies, in which no judicial decision has been taken until the date of its adoption. What does that mean? This means that in his case, the party, a citizen, did see that in his particular case, the second-degree court reached a different verdict than any other court in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, that he actually had no motive. He has no practical reason to submit such a single request for a clear reason that such a legal understanding of the Supreme Court will not reflect anyone's relationship with his concrete proposal. That legal understanding will actually be worth pro futuro in other subjects. However, in order to do so, a man must hire either a lawyer or not, but rather, how to make a certain effort, make a certain effort, and that he, as an individual, will not, in particular, benefit from it. And that's why I think it should think about it, or redecorate this norm in a way that regulates it so that this individual has a particular benefit from making the decision on his subject change. Or second, to delete this article from this Law and to actually introduce it as a separate legal remedy in the procedural law. I think it would be a much better option than it was set up like this. Because the idea of the law is good, it's a well-detected problem. But I don't think that norm will live, that norm will in practice experience no application. The judicial inspection is also elaborated, introduced by this Law, which is certainly good, which will strengthen definitely the responsibility, the urgency, the awareness of the work of the courts. I think, here, we're almost two years in office, and if we evaluate everything we've done in the judiciary, I think we can be quite satisfied with the way we're going. And we see, we've changed the executive law of a certain provision, we've passed a new Law on Mandatory Relations. We watch every day that land books are in increasing numbers, almost 80% of courts in the Republic of Croatia land books are available on the Internet. It is indeed a great advantage that all our citizens can benefit from. There's also been a reduction in actually the backlog of solving specific cases and I think that this, and the strategy that's been published in the ministry, I think it's on its way. And I believe we're going to make an even bigger move in that. What I'm trying to say is, what a special accent should be put on, I think it's an approach and a methodology of working in a specific subject. That's what law school is about, that's what judge education is about. Because our problem is actually the problem of accessing the case. We need to educate the judges, we need to teach the judges that the case should be approached pragmatically, that the case should be approached in a way with the desire to get rid of it. So, you can't let the case be formally circled, where you have one hearing, so one proof is suggested, then two months behind that, another hearing, and another proof. We need to use everything that the laws provide for us processively, which is that before the main hearing is prepared the main debate, to obtain all documents, to carry out all the evidence that is possible and, in fact, when the case is prepared and the debate has no need for more than two, maximum three main discussions that will take place, because such access cases will quickly be resolved, will not accumulate and we will not have any problems. It's definitely our problem number one, not to mention the possibilities offered by the appeal procedure and the third very important thing that we're going to have to actually pay attention to in the future, it's delivery. Delivery is something that is actually a very painful point of our judicial system and we certainly have to use the same Internet, we have to use that lawyers have to have compatible programs and we're actually going to save significant costs in this thing, and we're actually going to improve quite safely the work of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46988	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46989	Your Honor, Mr. President. A respected colleague said that this law is in terms of judicial reform in Croatia, but I must conclude that its achievements will not be such, that they will allow for more effective functioning of the judiciary and so that Croatian citizens are satisfied because we ourselves know that Croatian courts are still buried today with a huge number of cases. Therefore, the regionalisation of the courts itself will not automatically result in the effects that disputes in courts continue shorter, and it is also important here to say that the reform will experience its shift when we focus on changes and additions to the CAP and the Law on litigation procedures, and especially when the state leads disputes through the state's attorneyship, and it knows that all these disputes will be lost. It is somewhere over 10, 11 billion kunas have grown and in this way, so the state itself prevents the functioning of the judiciary, so it is obvious that it will have to go to that variant that many countries have in the world through a court settlement, that is, outside the court settlement, because in this way they would relieve the courts and allow the courts to function effectively, i.e. that the disputes do not run for years, years and years, and then people even have to address international institutions to protect their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46990	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46991	Well, my dear colleague Kovacevic, I didn't realize that you've made any special replications to me, because I said that this law itself will not lead to any fundamental changes, but this law, in fact, with all these amendments which, other laws that we have already passed in this term and as the most significant some changes to the laws that we have passed over the past years, which means that it has redistributed cases, those greater powers of judicial advisers, will certainly lead to certain improvements in the judiciary and in fact it is felt, and what I have said in particular, I think it is significant, it is a change of the full approach of our judges in solving the problem, because the problems are actually in solving concrete cases. These specific items are really being solved for too long, and they are being solved for too long because many procedural options are being used, so one debate is being postponed, and another debate is being postponed. What I said, already our procedural laws allow. Before, so the main debates in the preparatory phase of the judge can obtain data from both banks and social care centres, and can also conduct skills, and when you prepare the debate, in the main debate we can see whether there is anything else missing, so we will implement it, there is no case that needs to last more than three main debates, and that is actually the basis and that is how to resolve the judiciary, because so far the system has been, around the case formally, not gone into depth, it has not been resolved. We need to change mentality, we need to change methodology and technology. It might be good for the ministry to issue such a pragmatic manual that would actually be a guide to how to prepare the main debate. That's a fundamental question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46992	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46993	It was this draft law that confirmed the seriousness of the debate that both MPs and the past, in the previous debate when this bill was in the first reading, that certain observations by the representatives and the competent committees of the Croatian Parliament were accepted on that text, which confirms that it is indeed a trial, that the judicial system is very current, and that we are all interested in seeing, in addition to standardisation with European legislation, and what way of judging in the Croatian state can be done more effectively, to reduce deadlines and not only to satisfy citizens in a quick search for justice, because even when two citizens are talking about water, I have a dispute. It means that the dispute is taking a long time and that the slowdown, but the solutions proposed here are encouraging because it is said that the settlement of the case will be completed within 3 years, and judicial inspectors, property cards, have been introduced. It seems to me that it is increasingly common practice that all those who act in public responsibilities, not only legislative, executive, but also courts must have property cards and thus, if nothing else does transparency towards the public what someone had at the moment of entry into office and what someone had when that duty ceased. It is also important here to highlight what we are doing to increase the knowledge of all interested entities in the judicial system, a judicial academy that has really interested many judges, many lawyers, but also those whose judicial work is very expensive. Of course, the assessment of judicial work in order to make possible progress, and that is one of the modern gains that will make our actions go on as short as possible, that they are of sufficient quality and that the public and the public finally gain trust in those who act in judicial responsibilities, because it is actually one of the most honorable duties that we need to build all one authority and image. Of course, although this is not the case, I would like to stress that even the small municipal courts, in the quotes of "small municipal courts" should not be left behind in the next period of development of the Croatian judiciary, so I will only emphasise the importance of establishing the Municipal Court in Vis with a permanent judge, because in this way the island law would be in place, wherever the court is stronger and other culture in communication, the administration in terms of education is stronger, but the continued integration of judges also says that we must not forget either those small courts, regardless of the number of cases, because it is too important to judge. Nothing less is important or means of work for courts and how to provide the means to work. This is a prerequisite that even the trial would be good and good, information, astounding the courage and speed that the government has taken into account with the information, with land books as the results are already seen because many courts are introducing information exactly but thus solving the lagging number of objects that are largely due to changes in the system and the reasons why the number of executioners has increased. It is not enough to inform only the land services to increase the number of executioners and thus to raise the level of resources for the work of the courts at all in solving the case but also to encourage all those involved in the procedure that the court procedure is expensive and that it is useful before any entry into the court dispute to try to resolve this dispute peacefully. I put it first because wherever the trainees are involved in the work of the courts, in the work of land and book departments we have then our own staff who have been raised right from the beginning to conduct these responsible duties. It is a special age that will produce results I believe in the next five to eight years because without that time and training the trainees we will not be able to provide one continuity in the conduct of such responsible jobs. Of course, this law also provides for the means of professional training of judges, court officials, and tenants, as it is noted that actually judges do not communicate with each other enough, they do not have seminars. Therefore, it should not be possible to save and allow judges who have a permanent need to be perfected as well as medical professionals, as well as lawyers, as well as IT engineers, to avoid being an obstacle to the development of funds. When we talk about all the costs then and the fees for, and the reward to the jury judges and all those costs of court proceedings should be provided and shown that courts can respect deadlines when certain fees are paid. Investments in the trial, in editing the reconstruction of courts go I would say beyond our means, so we really have a reason for optimism in the next development of the Croatian judiciary. Of course, we must stop at this rather than permanently show our desire and will because without good justice there is no good or public trust in those who act in such responsible and high responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46994	Thank you. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46995	I agree with a respected colleague that the government has done a lot in this period to take appropriate measures to reform the judiciary, but I think that the government must now take this most significant step and also the costs of judicial proceedings, which is that part. We know that many citizens are in disputes with the state, they are objects from civil compensation damage and similar situations, and that is where the future State Attorney's Office is represented by the government. There are situations that the government means ordering the State Attorney's Office to conduct disputes because there is no money in the state budget and normally only costs are accumulated and accumulated. And the first move that the government has to do has to go into solving that work because in this way it's going to be a lot and discharging only the judiciary, it's not going to grow anymore because I say it's a huge amount, it's somewhere over 10 to 12 billion kuna that the state owes to citizens and we know ourselves that in many situations the fact that the state is going to lose these disputes. So that's one important thing to do. The other important thing is that we here are also making laws by emergency procedure that are not exaggerated and that are in many situations inconclusive we are also improving this part of the poor work of the courts because the difficult situation when the law is changing over the course of one year is one and the same two, three times and difficult for the judge to manage in all of this, especially as its dispute is under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46996	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46997	It is also important from this law where resolution is said and resolved within a certain period, within a reasonable period, within three years and there is no difference whether the prosecutor and prosecutor is a state or a private person. Of course, judgments that are necessary in the executive procedure should be carried out mercilessly, regardless of the need for such laws. This isn't an emergency procedure law. Even the vast majority of the objections made by this honorable House were appreciated by the promoter. Therefore, it is necessary to state by law, and this is the way, that there is no difference between prosecutors and prosecutors, whether it is a state, whether it is a municipality, a city and a county, and it must not be, but should be, in the executive procedure, precisely and in showing that the trial is independent, just and that any verdict should be carried out by law, which costs to cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46998	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u46999	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the Government of the Proposer of this law, colleagues and fellow MPs! I would like to start with the fact that there is no misunderstanding between us which is the cause of today's situation in the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia. If we could come together to assess what causes the situation in the judiciary, so the ineffectiveness of the judiciary, the long processes, often the trial, the very unequal judgments of those who welcome all and those of whom could be said to be horrified by all. Then we could talk about whether the bill hit the finish line. Since we are going round and round, the instability of the rules governing the judiciary and the judiciary is generally such that we can't know when we've changed, how many strategies we've adopted then this bill actually has no goals other than political ones. There are no goals other than political ones because another change in the judiciary organisation will only help delay the process or reduce the number of resolved cases. We are not consistent, but as far as I am in the Croatian Parliament. We'll bring another strategy. It is not possible for the strategy to change within two years. So, when we start looking at the judiciary above the scenes, when we are consistent with the implementation of the attitudes and policies that we have brought to the Croatian Parliament and when we agree on what the causes of the situation in the judiciary are, then we can expect results. I simply don't believe that the main cause of the judiciary is for today's situation in the judiciary. I don't even believe that regulations are such an obstacle to dissatisfaction with the judiciary because in the same regulations in the same environment, we have courts and judges who judge well. In the same regulations and in the same environment, we have judges and courts that don't judge could be said in accordance with the standards of law. Something about this bill. The law stipulates that courts have spokesmen, but the law does not say whose spokesman it is, whether it is the court's spokesman, that means judges either or only the president of the court, therefore, the administration of the court. If it's a spokeswoman in the sense of saying that some theorists judge a spokesman, then it really doesn't have any purpose. The speaker is tasked with improving reality, creating a better perception among those who listen to him than she is and the court should not have such a task. When it comes to an anti-corruption programme between judges and courts, then Croatia has not otherwise adopted nor adopted nor established nor appointed a body to deal with anti-corruption, neither in society nor among judges, and those countries in transition and countries with a long tradition already have. So, my colleague Peronja was already talking about the judge's property cards, that's not enough, that's just one factography, not a behavioral assessment. And another one of the very text of the law is important to clarify. This Regulation shall enter into The proposal for a law is prescribed that the President of the High Court may appoint at least two or more judges to exercise control over the orderly conduct of the proceedings of the judge. My colleagues and colleagues, the job of the judges is a trial. Do we think that over two-stage and three-degree proceedings in court there may be such oversight of the judge's work? I think if we literally realized this would be really beyond the two-stage and three-degree trial control, something that's new but we didn't define. That would be unacceptable in my opinion, because it would go against the independence of the judge in the trial and very drastically. As regards the affairs of the judicial administration, in Article 62, supervision of the regular conduct of cases in court. And what are regular court affairs rather than trial? If the trial is under regular administrative supervision, it may only be in the form of a case taken, in the process, in accordance with dynamics or established criteria, priorities etc. When it comes to special courts, there is no way to propose at least a special council for labour disputes. The whole of Croatia argues that, or the public, Croatia claims that the state is unable to say so to protect the right of workers in trade, so it is sought to prevent work, let's say in trade on Sundays and not introduce special councils to protect workers' rights. I don't think at least we can deafen ourselves to the fact that work relations disputes last too long, that protection is inefficient, that in Croatia 300 thousand workers are looking for work, so the market is what it is. If one employee's employer is fired, whether legal or not, 50 new requirements appear at the workplace, so the game is completely unequal. Therefore, the fact that the situation is such a requirement to establish working dispute councils in the organisation of the judiciary. That would be a shift in the protection of workers' rights. And it may be irrelevant, but it's important that I warn you of that, too. In terms of working relationship, there is illogicality, I think that these are Articles 109 and 39 related to university professors or some other conditions that must be met by judges, higher, lower courts, and do not have to meet judges of senior courts, it would not be logical, so I ask the applicant to at least consider and explain the reasons for such... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47000	My colleagues and colleagues, I would now suggest that we stop this debate and declare a decision to set up a Committee on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, because this Committee should meet very quickly and take the necessary activities for the award. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47002	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Lek who said that judges must judge by standards. No, judges have to judge according to the law, and he probably unconsciously and discovered the cause of such a situation in the judiciary because standards can only be laid down by executive authority and that is why we are in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47003	Honorable representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47004	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I will say that I support this final proposal for a law on courts that lies ahead of us in a second reading. Compared to the first reading, the proposal has been further improved, many remarks and proposals have been noted during the debate in the first reading. This new Law on Courts is certainly another step forward in the overall reform of the judiciary that will contribute to the greater quality and efficiency of the work of the courts, in general establishing the judiciary as a fair, legal, impartial and democratic system that must be independent without the possibility of political influence as well as legislative and enforcement authorities. Although that was the case during the first reading, I will repeat and highlight some of the newspapers proposed by this Law that I hold to contribute to this new quality of court work. One of these newspapers is the provision of Article 15, which allows the establishment of permanent services or departments outside the seat of a criminal, municipal or commercial court, and the possibility of the President of a directly higher court, the establishment of days of judgment, outside the court's seat, which will certainly contribute to the efficiency of the courts. A very significant newspaper is the provisions of Article 59 which regulate that when courts of the second degree on the same fact and legal matter are made different decisions and no exceptional legal remedy is allowed, it shall allow the parties within one year from the date on which the decision on which the disputed legislative provision was first applied to the Supreme Court to examine whether such a decision has compromised the uniform application of the law and the equality of citizens. I also consider that the applicant has complied with the observations and elaborated more precisely the principle of the trial within a reasonable period referred to in Article 4 and more precisely as set out in Chapter 3 of the protection of the right to trial within the reasonable time limits of Articles 27 and 28 of this proposal. I also support the introduction of judicial inspection, the extension of the powers of judicial advisers as well as the more precise regulation of objective criteria for assessing the work of judges as contained in Council of Europe Recommendation 9412. The law provides for the introduction of a property card for judges is also a newspaper that contributes to the credibility of judges, as it will strengthen the overall trust in justice system justice, independence, independence and impartiality of judges, and at least remove or at least reduce suspicion of possible corruption. Determining the property of judges as well as other civil servants is certainly one of the effective means of verifying the legality and regularity of their conduct. I will point out once again the need for unambiguous regulation of the selection procedure of the President of the Court for reasons as it seems to me that some contradictions remain in this final draft of the law between Article 109(3) and Article 112(1) which, if they remain in the proposed form, could lead to different interpretations and irregularities in the selection of the President of the Courts. In this regard, Article 109(3) regulates the appointment of the President of the Court, and the same is taken from the current law on the courts of Article 73a and reads: "The President of the Court shall appoint a minister of justice amongst the candidates proposed by the Judicial Council." While Article 112(1) determines that the Judicial Council shall determine candidates who meet the conditions for the President of the Court and shall propose that one of them be appointed as the President of the Court. In my first reading of this Law, I also set a concrete example when, in my opinion, it is because of the abuse of interpretation of the provision in force in Article 73. The Law on Courts, which regulates the election of the President of the Court of Justice, illegally appointed President of the Municipal Court in Vrbovac, because the former Minister of Justice, contrary to the unanimous proposal of the Judicial Council, appointed a candidate not only did not propose, but it expressed itself negatively on the competence of the Court. In order to avoid this kind of thing happening in the future, it is necessary to regulate precisely and unequivocally the selection procedure of the President of the Court, and to warn the Committee on Justice in its report of this disagreement between those provisions. For those reasons, I propose that the selection procedure of the President of the Court be as precise as possible in order for the applicant to comply with the provisions of Article 112(1) with Article 109(3) or to adopt a proposal for a formulation of the Committee on Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47005	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47006	It's a harsh lie that a colleague claims, and I'm surprised that he's claiming this because I acted in a specific case according to the law. After all, all of his complaints to the person concerned were rejected and rejected even more, and on the other hand, the State Attorney's Office is now no longer aware of whether it has been legally terminated, but I am surprised by my colleague and his insistent commitment to man, and we are now in favour of the purity of the work in the judiciary, that a man who is under grave suspicion, at the end of the reasonable doubt, is also telling me that the State's Attorney's Office has filed a direct indictment on the basis of this application. In the end, I agree perhaps with the fact that an opinion should be expressed in a statement of whether it is binding or not. It is evident from the existing law and this principle that it is not binding. However, I agree that the decision should be reasoned so that it can be seen why the minister disagreed with the opinion of the Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47007	Thank you. Dear representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47008	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I will also join this debate to support the Final Proposal of the Law on Courts that we are discussing today, which regulates the organisation and structure of courts as one of the priority segments of full judicial reform. But first of all, as one further step in a more effective, fairer and more uniform trial, all the achievements and values guaranteed by our citizens by the Constitution as the highest legal act. But we are aware that every reform and this, regardless of the political consensus in its adoption and implementation, depends, in fact, on how to end to the lowest level of application it will be implemented, and this clearly always depends on individuals, on people who will implement it daily. I therefore believe that in the segment of the judiciary as well as in politics, both in this House and in the state administration, it would be good for every single person doing public work to reach a democratic standard, that he is at the job of serving general and public matters and that he is there for citizens, not citizens for his sake, his powers and his wages, particularly judges. And here we see that this Law also provides for the adoption of a code of judicial ethics which I particularly welcome, because many judges are not aware of the importance of their social role, including those outside the courtroom. So, until they sensitize themselves and feel the unrest themselves when some object in their drawer stands for 20 years and when they don't think about it themselves, and that's what we've all learned in college that slow justice is the greatest injustice there will be no reform. And now there's a thing I'd say to a number of procedurally-legal existing institutes that could be used to speed up court proceedings, but in most cases, it's kind of happening that they're either hot girls or they're actually being delayed. It is this proposal, the Final Bill of Law, that offers some newspapers that could overcome this situation. I'd point only to some. Here, an important achievement in this bill is the introduction of compulsory education judges. It's a well-known thing about medical and pharmaceutical professions and chambers. This institute of compulsory education through a judicial academy that will condition the progress of judges in education is excellent precisely because it will force judges to engage in education themselves, but on the other hand it will force the judicial administration to enable them to do so, and so often for financial reasons it has been impossible because there has often been no legal literature available to judges or the National Journal, let alone any seminar education. It is also one of the excellent newspapers of this Law provisions on the compulsory establishment of a department to monitor and study court practice, i.e. in smaller courts of specialised judges to monitor court practice, which will make the judges extremely useful and helpful in their work. In this sense, it will contribute by my court and further streamlining the network of courts, which is foreseen by the judicial reform strategy, which the government has adopted and which we will be discussing here in the Croatian Parliament soon, because judges will be able to specialize and educate and then contribute to their more effective work. With regard to rationalisation, it is, of course, good and the provision of Article 15 of the proposed law so that citizens are not suspended, or that the principle of equality is not violated for each of them in the availability of courts to ensure access in such a way as to establish services outside the seat of the courts or to maintain judgment days outside the seat. It is certainly in the interest of equality and availability to courts of good provision which has already been taken over, which already exists with amendments to the previous law, which is that the Supreme Court may refer cases from burdened courts to less-loaded courts. Of course, it is a good solution and the introduction of a judicial inspection and it is well established that these judicial inspectors must at least meet the requirements of the county judge and then be qualified and competent for such supervision. Because it is undeniable to appreciate the independence and independence of judges in making their decisions, but certainly that does not mean that they must be responsible for the deadlines, for efficiency and quite banally responsible for working discipline. And all of this makes it clear then to achieve a trial within a reasonable period of time, which is one of the basic rights of citizens. A good measure is further strengthening powers and the number of judicial advisers, which burdens judges with banal cases, and should continue to think that some, some cases that by nature things would not be judicially transferred to where they should be, i.e. to administrative bodies. It is also a major progress in introducing a paper on uniforming court practice, by introducing a provision in Article 59 which says that if in II. the extent of two different decisions on the same legal and fact-finding matter have been made in order to be able to apply for equalisation of case-law unless legal remedy is permitted, whether regular or exceptional. However, I am afraid that this will remain an unused institute because the parties will not have legal interest in fighting for a level playing field that will then not be able to imply their case and their case because their decision is justifiable. Here, in this thinking, I thought of an amendment that would erase this article in this bill and then resort to the position of the Supreme Court that this matter should be included in procedural and legal provisions. But I'm thinking about it, and I'm finding that it's not a good idea because that's why we'd throw this institute out of this law, and then we'd wait for him to be in some other law. And therefore, I would like to resort to the opinion of my colleague Josipovic. He proposed an amendment which would then actively legitimise the state's attorney's office because the unification of judicial practice is a public interest and would be good if, apart from the party, the State's attorney's office could also file a request to the Supreme Court for a level playing field. And here's the end, just some more. So there's a series of good solutions. I would point out what Mr. Sesvechchan was saying about the election of the President of the Court. I think it will come into practice because Articles 109 and 112 are collapsing, and then it will apply to the election, to the election of the President of the Court. Therefore, it will not be known whether the minister can only appoint the one proposed by the Judicial Council, or be allowed to choose between all candidates. However, in any case, Article 109 should then state that one established by the Judicial Council rather than proposed, as Article 112 clearly states that the Judicial Council proposes one, and then more Justice Ministers have nothing to choose between than to confirm or not confirm. And I point out further doubts about Article 13(5), which states that according to the law, other regular specialised courts may be established by law according to real jurisdiction or certain legal areas. It's kind of my opinion that we don't have any laws, except this one here to establish other regular courts. And here, in the end, to conclude. I will support this law and for the reason that it brings a series of newspapers that will not suddenly and magically stick because not a single law can fully address the problem in our judiciary, but it is certainly a good and advanced step in solving the whole problem of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47009	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47010	She's a respected colleague of mine. If we wait for a certain disturbance to appear in the judges themselves, as you said, which will make them work more consciously and to conclude their cases in time, then I'm afraid we won't welcome that day. This certainly is not a good method to wait for this particular unrest in the souls of judges. Because look, when in one banal case, a border case for libel and insult has been going on for 4 years, and the evidence procedure is carried out in half an hour to read 3 articles, and the judge does not conclude it for 4 years, but the verdict brings 10 days before the date of the absolute limitation. You know why? So that the higher court cannot go into the measure of his, in the quality of that judgment, but can only conclude, by a possible appeal, that it has come to an age. Or when, in another case, for allegedly prescribing the judge's master's degree, he makes a liberating verdict, also a few days before the absolute statute of limitations. Why? So we'd never have a word about it. So that thing can only be fixed in one way. To expose the work of the courts to the court. Because that is the only way, only if the work of the courts in public is being questioned, as is the work of any other public authority, then we can possibly expect some progress in this area. However, paragraph 1 should therefore be amended. Article 6 of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47011	Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47012	I have no idea what you're replicating me for the reason I didn't speak of article 6 of this law at all. Even God forbid, the work of the courts must not be questioned. I don't know if anyone heard it in this assembly that I was talking about it. Of course he can question himself. You can't, you can't talk with one indignation about the metricity of the dispute and the way of the trial until the verdict is a power of power, which is what it says, the efficiency of the court's work, certainly the times. But I said the following. I certainly didn't say and no one here could hear that we're going to wait for the consciousness to mature democraticly, etc., etc. in someone's head. It is precisely this law that introduces a series of measures for that control, and it is exactly like English grass. You know, when they asked someone in England about grass, so normal, they cut their hair and cut their hair. Well, it takes 300 years to cut hair, and then every Englishman gets distracted when the grass is weedy. This way, we will achieve by sanctions and by the provisions and measures laid down in this law that, after time, our consciousness becomes such that it will interfere with the judges. I guarantee it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47013	Thank you. Another replica, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47014	Well, Mr. President, I can't listen to these words from Mr. Stazic, who talks about the master's every time, and it's known that the master's degree has been run politically. You were in power and what did you do in the judiciary? You didn't do anything, you just ran political disputes. And about the link between legal understanding, my colleague said it correctly, and that's what we're introducing a solution from Angolan law at a small door. And I think we need to think a little bit more, I agree with you in that part, what that commitment will be, because if. A little is now available compared to the first version of the bill, because it was a much stronger variant of the current solutions. And I think you yourself said another part of why the judiciary is overcrowded, that's the part that doesn't work and doesn't do the state administration what it should do and that automatically piles up additional cases in courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47015	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47016	So, Mr. President, as you know, according to our Rules of Procedure, it can only be replicated to basic exposure, and the representative cannot respond to someone else's replica when he did not have a basic exposure, so in that sense, I ask you to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to maintain order in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47017	In replicas, MPs say what they think they can carry out, I can't interfere with it. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47018	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In my brief discussion, I would actually like to look back on some of the parts of this law that I think are, or at least, unspeakable and vague to me. In doing so, I would like to remind all of us that on two occasions in the last two years we have delayed the application of certain provisions of the Family Law that regulate the transfer of jurisdiction of the social care centre to courts. At that time, the Deputy Prime Minister himself, which was in the 1st month of last year and in the 9th month of last year, said that it was the members of the Family Law that regulate extremely sensitive family issues. At that time, at the request of the Ministry of Justice, we delayed the application of these provisions to 1. In January 2006, the deadline was unwisely approaching. On the grounds that this problem is significant, important, that the judges, or our judiciary, have failed to prepare, educate themselves to take over these cases. Meanwhile, the government has adopted a strategy, a national strategy to combat domestic violence, which explicitly states that by December 2005, family courts, or family departments, have been established in regular courts. So the possibility is whether it would be special courts or if it would be departments. Now, looking at this proposal, the final proposal of the Law on Courts, Article 13 of the final proposal in paragraph 5, states that the law may establish other regular and specialised courts, other than those listed in the same Article 13. I ask the question because it remains unclear, which law makes it possible for these courts to be established. Is this the law we're making today? This is based on the reasons given on page 53 of this final proposal, where it is said that only by the basis of this law can be established under real jurisdiction or for certain legal areas of other regular and specialised courts. However, as explained in Article 13, it is said that it is possible to establish courts for specific legal areas by special law and that the division of courts into regular specialised and specialised courts is explicitly prescribed. I think there's still some vagueness in how in fact some other regular or specialized courts can be established, whether only by this law as you say it in one place or another, especially as you say it elsewhere. If this implies that a special law can also be established by special specialised courts and other regular courts, then, in some ways, the hope remains that perhaps some other law could be established in the future and some family courts. Now, if we did give up on family courts, I'm asking myself a question, can we possibly count on this law to set up family departments in regular courts? Article 32 of this proposal regulates this area, however, does not really say anything about which departments are forming. Is that for example? only civil or criminal departments or family departments as provided for in the national strategy on the prevention of domestic violence. It also remains questionable for me, who actually makes the decision, although when explaining Article 32 makes it nice to regulate the conditions when and under what conditions departments can be established and who is authorised to set them up. I would like to ask you to explain in your final statement where it actually says in the law, or who makes the decision on it. The intensity of my debate was to warn that in the last two years, we have passed some laws, or strategies that bind and a number of ministries. Among other things, the National Strategy for the Prevention of Family Violence obliges the Ministry of Justice to establish family departments, or courts, until December 2005. I say if we give up on the courts, we agree to go to the family departments. However, if I am not mistaken, the minister herself said in a statement to the newspaper a short time ago, that we will not start any family departments, and even fewer family courts, but that this problem from the domain of the family, so family law will be dealt with by specialised judges, or judges who will be educated for it. First, it is directly ignoring the strategy to protect against domestic violence, or in the meantime, the strategy has changed without us knowing anything about it. And secondly, it takes two years to educate judges at the Ministry of Justice. As far as I know, education for family law issues started somewhere about a month ago. Does that mean we're able to educate judges for a problem that we haven't been able to educate them for at least the last two years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47019	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47020	With respect to the interpretation of the Replica Institute, which now has been given to us by the Honorable President of the Parliament, I, replicating my colleague Gordani Sobol, tell Mr Peri Kovčević this. I wasn't deluded when I mentioned some cases in court practice, and you were your colleague's reaction, even though I didn't mention the name because I was alluding to your party boss, Mr. Antu Djapic, who was tried for it, because he was suspected of prescribing master's work. It took four years for the judge to bring the dispute to an end, and then he gave the acquittal a few days before the absolute deadline. The High Court annulled his decision and returned to the retrial, but there was no time for retrial because of the statute of limitations. If there was no ban on commenting on court proceedings that were under way then the public could, while the proceedings were ongoing, see that it was a matter of purely favouring the parties by the court and could have contributed by its analysis of its case and at least so much so that future cases do not repeat themselves. It's all my craziness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47021	You see, colleague Stazic, in your replica, you've replicated in your replica the representatives of Anna Lovrin something she didn't even represent. It did not speak at all of the implications or explicit things about some of the judgments in question, which were made just before old age. And then when MP Pero Kovacevic, who also replicated Mrs. Ana Lovrin, replied, then you claimed that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure even though you stated in your replica something that was not at all in the allegations of Mrs. Ana Lovrin. I have not given any interpretation that you have now stated in this sense in which you have stated. The representative may request a word to answer the quote, so I need it, the chairman should give it as soon as he finishes his speech. But in the context of this replica, if it is strictly true that it only has to be addressed exclusively to the person to whom it is replicated, then I would need them for every representative to interrupt you in this case, because you immediately entered one part of the matter that was not quoted from the presentation of the representative you replicated. Don't put me in a position where I have to have triple and multiple standards in the application of the Rules of Procedure. And another replica, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47022	I fully agree with everything our colleague Sobol said. Maybe just one note, that the judge's education didn't start two years ago, but started two and a half years ago. But this kind of education that fellow Sobol was talking about, and it was supposed to be, has not been fully implemented to this day. Equally one little note. What we call a pompous academy today is still not filled. What we had and what was launched during the former coalition government is exactly the program and project of the centre for the education of judges. The only change to today is that this center that still has only one employee is called the Academy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47023	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47024	Thank you, Mr. President. Society and social problems are of course developing in processes and are dynamic, and norms are in a static way affecting this dynamic. And that's why norms change, and that's why norms need to be discussed. However, it is not just norms that change, the meaning of judgments is also changed, and the meaning of the problems facing judgments is changed. In this sense, the need for our legislation to be harmonised and harmonised with European legislation, so in particular, to say the same thing, must be looked after those formulations of articles that occurred at one time, and perhaps even in that time they were welcome, but now they came, they were in another time when they were actually anacronism. Of course, I am talking about Article 6(1), which says, "Every form of influence is prohibited on the decision-making process, especially any use of public authority, means of public communication and even public interventions to influence the course and outcome of court proceedings." If it were the totalitarian society we had, then it would be very clear what this formulation is all about. He would in some way really safeguard the independence of the judiciary from a constitution that has such power that even small pressures affect legal certainty and even legal processes at all. But this is about something else. We found ourselves in a democratic society. We certainly don't have, we have different needs, we don't have caste brahman who would also be not only judges but also scientists and poets, etc., so we could participate in all aspects. But we just need to create mechanisms in which society in a professional, qualified way can participate in the examination of individual court decisions in several aspects. But finally, we are also obliged to harmonise our legislation with European legislation, so among other things there is a convention, the European Convention on Human Rights, which is very clear in Article 10, which I am now not going to quote, talks about what freedom is and how freedom of word should be interpreted. But he's also saying something about court practice that literally sounds like this and it's totally the opposite of what I read as an item of our law. Generally accepted is the fact that courts cannot work in vacuums although their duty is to settle disputes, that does not mean that there can be no prior discussion of the dispute elsewhere, whether in specialized magazines, in public press or in general in public. Furthermore, although mass media are not allowed to exceed the limits set in the interest of proper justice, they are invited to spread information and ideas on court cases as well as on other issues of public interest. Not only do the media have a duty to spread such information and ideas, the public also has a right to receive them. If the Proposer of the Law does not see this contradiction between Article 6 and the Convention on Human Rights, I will warn him of the damages that can result from such an understanding of non-involvement, under the alleged signs of non-involvement in the work of courts and of such an understanding, so to speak, of the actions of the judiciary within, in a vacuum. We know well that our courts do not act on the Inquisitor principle. The judge, in fact, although this would normally be desirable is decided between the argument and the appeal to the laws given by the prosecutor or by the defence. The public attorney's office, the state's attorney's office, it actually barely has the opportunity to interfere, again I'm putting that term under quotes, in the work of judges. It is, therefore, that whenever anything is done can only be handled by the right of appeal. Sometimes it happens that for different reasons someone won't appeal. Of course, I'm talking about a case I'm not going to treat, just to make an example of it, not a specific case. Therefore, state interests can happen, that public interests are damaged and despite such a principle that any assessment or debate on the work of judges is prohibited in any way. We have, therefore, a phenomenon that the Prime Minister says for himself, I have to divide into two people, the Prime Minister and the writer, that is... Well, as prime minister, he has no right to interfere, and as a writer, he disagrees with something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This, therefore, is to this extent misunderstood by the judge's independence that, therefore, the prime minister does not have a clear idea of not only having the right to interfere but is obliged as prime minister to say. I warn, therefore, that this article, in Article 6(1), is absolutely contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. However, he is contrary to our interest. So when we want to harmonize our legislation with European legislation, then let's get out of this right away. Let us not propose laws but at this point which are not only unharmonised but are actually contrary to European, with the content of conventions. And especially with interpretations and practices of European courts. So it's something that I think is out of any party or anyone else, so to speak, competing on this case here. I therefore reiterate that this article, which in the context of totalitarian society, protects the judiciary from interference in the context of democratic society, does not allow a debate on, to say the least... Court decisions and therefore neither at the level of what is listed here, specialized magazines in public press in general or in the transfer of information as a whole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that should change anyway, and the amendment has also been submitted here, submitted by fellow Stazic. I would like the good public to hear it, because the measure of this article, I suppose, is the following, and it is forbidden by a judge by force, threat or other form of coercion to ask for action or decision to be taken in relation to the time and outcome of the court proceedings, but not to prohibit any form of influence. Under each form of influence is actually the closure of the possibility that the public, the professional public, and in the extreme line and parliamentary representatives fulfil their duty and to respond to free cases where or for various reasons certain judgments are not made in accordance with expectations, not with the expectations of the public and European standards but also with the law itself. Since the Court did not refer to Article 203 in this particular case. The Penal Code, rather than Article 200, in which Article 203 directly excludes this as a criminal offence. So what do we have now? We have a legal vacuum, no one is allowed to interfere, the decision is made perhaps in the worst sense, the judge is not obliged to warn about the state of the law and the changes and additions that are so common that very often even professional people cannot manage in amendments and additions to the law and do in some way shame to the entire community and Croatia turns out to be one country that is actually more conservative and in some way less developed in democratic institutions than the one that is. Therefore, on behalf of this I call on the applicant to reconsider Article 6(1) and to act in accordance with the amendment submitted or, of course, in some formulation that will allow these standards which are otherwise European standards and which also represent the path of harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47025	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47026	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow MP, Vujic, said completely incorrectly that Article 6 of the bill prohibits any debate on the work of a judge. This is simply not true, because the law says that any form of influence is prohibited on the decision-making process, and in particular any use of public authority, means of public communication, in general, for the sake of influence on the course and outcome of court proceedings. In fact, all of what my colleague Vujic was talking about, here is exactly what the proposed amendment of his fellow MP Josipovic retained that statement, the manipulation of any form of influence on judicial decisions is forbidden, but he has one thing to say by easing a part of a sentence that says that in a way contrary to the principles of democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47027	Thank you. Now we're done with the individual debate. We're going to a five-minute debate on the registered clubs. Club of HSLS, DCLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47028	... My colleagues, my secretary of state, my colleagues and my colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Here, let me say on behalf of the club several of our facilities on this proposal of the Court Act. I mean, if there is a consensus anywhere in Croatia between all political parties and politicians, then it is in the fact that we all say that justice reform is inevitable and that in fact the future of our and these other transitions, European transitions, exactly depends on how much this reform will succeed as quickly and efficiently as possible. But let's be honest, and let's say this one, let's be honest, let's say, is this bill reformable? I'm afraid not, though. I agree with these, people here have said that it's really not possible, there's no magic wand and it's not possible to just do it, because there's really a whole series of these habits, habits are always very dangerous, this is an area and it's very sensitive and every intervention can always be seen as pressure, but what's good, it's an attempt with certain new institutes to try to solve certain perceived problems. Now the big question is whether to introduce these new institutes, do they really contribute to what we want to realize every time? I'm afraid that it's exclusively, I'm talking about palitative measures and that some times this good intention, noble intent, the desire has not been accompanied by an adequate legal solution, and we're about to understand, as a club, we're going to vote for this law, but I also think it's good to hear some of these remarks that I think I can correct. In this way, Article 120 also allows court advisers to carry out certain court proceedings on their own, to assess evidence and determine facts. I'm afraid we're actually going back to some old solutions, they say after that II. World War II that people who didn't have college didn't have the necessary qualifications to be so-called. People's judges, that they were judged by a sense of justice, not by the laws. I think that in routine, in addition to the knowledge that these court advisors still have a routine there is and I'm afraid that such one, interventions would actually bring in one distraction, because as there is an apprentice, a calph, so a master, as there is an assistant, a professor, that we should, about and in courts, keep that hierarchy, and I'm afraid that with one of these things, it wouldn't lead to what's very important, which is that the number of these cases is reduced and that results in what the legislator wanted. What also, which sometimes people who write the law may seem to them to understand, but when it's written, it's not clear enough. Thus, in Article 26, if you carefully read it to those of us who read it remains unclear and it is never good when there is a greater number of interpretations, says the President of the High Court, in order to monitor the orderly conduct of the judges' affairs, it is not said which, now at all, remains unclear, the ambiguity is determined by at least two or more judges. There's no telling which one again. Here I think that if things are introduced, the inspection is still touched by the question of the independence of the judges, and I'm afraid this solution as it is said is not the most awkward. I think counterpart Josipovic also warned in his amendment, but he added who would have made the president more specific. It is a good thing that this reasonable period is being introduced and in some ways that the Council of Europe's guidelines are being followed, especially the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, which adopts a resolution on Croatia, which is right here, at which point the decisions of the courts are being made. So far, this burden has fallen exclusively to the Constitutional Court, and after this it will fall to other courts. We think that this is good, and it would in some way be very important for a large number of citizens who really, instead of trusting in our judiciary, are facing the fact that they are being tried on unreasonable terms. And that for the end of Article 154 to 156 is an attempt to merge one and more practical courts with municipal courts. Let's say that this idea as such, that it is possible to accept, but if it is said to be a pilot program, then every pilot program must be told exactly how long it is and what territory it is going on in. This is how it really is left here for all of us, in fact, the possibility that the minister has received powers that do not belong to the minister, it exclusively belongs to the Croatian Parliament. It should not be excluded from the Croatian Parliament and I suggest that, indeed, Article 154 determine which territory is and which, whether it is the whole of the Republic of Croatia, can be and can be, but must be said exactly how long, when this pilot programme begins and when it ends to be a pilot programme. This is how we really face the possibility of an inconsistencies in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47029	Thank you very much. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47030	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, Well, surely what is probably most needed in this country right now is an absolute trust in the Croatian judiciary, but we are probably not far from the truth that the Croatian judiciary wanted me to admit it to myself to one of the most corrupt branches of Croatian society. Finally, what to say over that knowledge that after the revision of conversion and privatisation, our court-laws issue only two suspended sentences and two fines. In one word, such a judiciary is hard to believe, but on the other hand, it is clear that everything needs to be done to restore its integrity, integrity, credibility, and trust. It's the only way to "return" and honesty to those institutions. And I claim that the serious culprits of such chaos are the people of the government, so indirectly, this parliament is simply passing laws as it is in the running lane that no one else is able to follow anymore. Now specifically about a few of these articles in this legislative proposal. Article 18 jurisdiction of municipal courts. In our view, we should prescribe equal jurisdiction for all municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia, to abolish courts of extended and constrained jurisdiction. This would result in a level playing field for all first-degree courts. For example, why should the Court of Justice, for example, in the Bujahs, which has conducted criminal proceedings against the jurisdiction of the Buzet Court for crimes for over five years or working disputes, or disputes for the recognition and enforcement of foreign court decisions if all of this could be clearly conducted at the same level and in the same rank. Such courts in the Republic of Croatia have plenty. For example, the Pula court is overloaded because such disputes judge Rovinj and Pazin is also overloaded because such disputes judge Labin. At times, all municipal courts had the same jurisdiction, and that must have been good. So the reasons why we propose this is the even burden of judges with weight and number of cases, and so should be clear with criminal cases which are now in the jurisdiction of courts to extend jurisdiction. Furthermore, in connection with this famous article 54, which Kramarić also spoke of. This provides for the possibility of setting up a pilot of courts and joining municipal and criminal courts. This is certainly commendable but it is necessary to consider the possibility of a pilot "with commercial courts" through a civil and criminal department in courts and the reasons would exist, there are also meanings that other European countries have similar models that function successfully. So, if you want reform, then it should be a procedure and in the jurisdiction of the courts to reduce both courts and unite these small courts into one larger one. However, it is clear that this should be determined or those decisions should be taken by this parliament and cannot be in the discretionary powers of the justice minister. It should also be considered and given whether to place the investigation in municipal courts as it once was. Namely, the investigative judges are taking into account and carrying out the evidence procedure in order to determine the decisive facts and to initiate an investigation or suspension. No less complex work is done by judges in municipal courts. Now, let's say, in a litigation procedure that can be very complex. So the reasons would be free of the number of judges in the county court who could commit themselves to second-degree work on complaints. This Regulation shall enter I don't see any reason why investigative judges would have an unfettered internship. an increase in the duration of insurance. The reasons mean that in the municipal court, an annual schedule of cases could provide for the rotation of judicial affairs so that all judges take over all trial cases for a certain number of years and there are no specific reasons to favour only investigative judges. They all have the same responsibility to work, so it should be clearly appreciated, by the fact that the judge is not appointed as an investigative or litigator, but only by an annual schedule of operations to be deployed in a particular referendum or by a case according to the President of the Court's decision. And Article 79. When assessing judges, the possibility of stimulation should be foreseen in accordance with Article 77, means through the percentage of the remuneration of judges who deserve the best assessment, and even when they successfully exercise judicial duty and give that discretionary assessment to the judicial council. There may be some rights to judges, but now it's already blind... and these would be some of the concrete remarks of the IDS Club on this equally concrete legislative proposal, which is a question of whether it will bring about a revolution in the Croatian judiciary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47031	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47032	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Caine who said that the courts are the ones who are guilty of non-processing theft and robbery in conversion and privatisation. Mr. Cain, the greater guilt can be borne by bad laws, executive power and the state's attorney's office from courts because the courts could only work on the basis of what the state's attorney's office started. If that was a bad thing, if the laws were bad. Therefore, it is incorrect that the courts are the most guilty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47033	Thank you. Club of representatives of the HSS, respected representative Josip Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47034	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I have to say that at first when we start to analyze this law he offers some good, some bad solutions, but I wouldn't look back at it for now. He does not actually offer system solutions that are most important in order to address the situation that we have in the judiciary. If someone asked me to describe the situation in the judiciary, they would say in two words that it was the burden of the courts and their ineffectiveness. This leads to the fact that legal uncertainty is growing, that citizens are becoming more dissatisfied and of course the Republic of Croatia suffers financial damage. Let us not forget that we, by constitutional law on the Constitutional Court, gave the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia the right to literally in the first degree, with a warning to courts that a number of cases end or a certain number of cases end and to the Court of Justice for damages. It is burdened in this way, of course, by the Constitutional Court and by its original function, I simply must say degrade myself. What should be said further, I first of all expected from this law to offer some systemic solutions. If we follow the amendments of the Law on Courts to them, these changes were approached for the more light reasons, so there was so little we masked something and did well but did nothing new systemically. First of all, look at the organization of the courts. We know that this organisation of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia is not good and that it can no longer function that way. It was an idea to establish several appeals courts. It gave up that idea, I don't know why. So today, colleagues and colleagues, every judge who has 300-400 cases, and you know how lucky that figure can be, and that figure is considered small. Today, municipal courts are no longer just as burdened as they once were. Today, all the courts are simply burdened. Today, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is an operational court. In fact, even when it balances court practice, there's no time for that anymore. The number of judges is too small. The other thing that repairs such a situation is procedural regulations. Because of our procedural regulations, procedures take a long time. Well, you know, it's going to be one of the most important issues in the negotiations when someone simply calculates the average of a litigation or criminal procedure, that's terrible. Why not, so as not to make the citizens or to be satisfied with such a situation? Not at all, and it has to change. Third thing. The work of the courts. So if you take a good look at this law we remain in the jurisdiction of the court which, by its own nature, fall under administrative jurisdiction. Let's put it in administrative jurisdiction. And a fourth. Responsibility. Of course, responsibility. Too little responsibility for judges. And what I want to say at the end of this law is not good, it's not good when a judicial inspection is placed in the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. I think by the nature of things, this inspection should be part of the State Judiciary Council because of its detour of work and the seriousness of the whole thing. Of course, this law offers something good, but it's too little to do to solve the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47035	Thank you. HDZ club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47036	Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. Here, at the end of the final review on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community should actually begin by saying that it is the content of all these discussions that we have heard that points to the justification for the adoption of a new Law on Courts with all these institutes, especially new institutes which are in a substantive sense envisaged and elaborated by this Law. Let me rephrase them once again, because it seems unusually important to say this and because these institutes are literally in the most excellent way possible elaborated in this proposed Law on Courts. First of all, it is a reasonable trial, on the other hand, a uniform application of the law and a uniformity of the case law. Third. Obligation to introduce property cards and code of judicial ethics. Fourth. The introduction of objective criteria, therefore, criteria for assessing the work of judges plus or compulsory education of judges. And a fifth. A judicial inspection, therefore, inspection with a good legal solution is exactly the opposite of what a respected colleague said earlier, so a good legal solution that judicial inspection is just forming with such responsibilities within the Justice Department. Furthermore, the most critical, in fact, experienced the legal solution of Article 6 which is actually being developed by the Institute is a very important, very important institute, an almost crucial institute when we speak and when we are in positions of defining or developing the principle of government trio. Well, not only for the sake of precision, I think that in this final review, it is necessary to specify specifically, therefore, to read that provision in Article 6(1). Court law. So what's this really about? Any form of influence on the decision-making process is prohibited, that is the law's urgency and that is the essence of this proposal. Therefore, the prohibition of any, any influence on the decision-making process, and in particular any use of public authority, means of public communication and public in general, shall, therefore, influence the course of proceedings and the outcome of court proceedings. So, making the verdict itself. That not all the arguments that went in the sense of resisting such a legal solution may most bear witness to what was the essence of exposure from those colleagues who opposed such a legal solution. Because it says I'm literally quoting from their statements, "yes, but that's a criticism in those moments when a court ruling is made," be careful now: "... they bring beyond the expectations of the public.". I'm not for such a system that court decisions are made as the public expects. It is exactly the opposite of all democratic principles and the opposite of the government's trinity. We need to give legal solutions to judges when we talk about the metrics, when we talk about a specific subject, that their independence, therefore, is witnessed through developed legal institutes. No public perceptions of the measure of the dispute cannot and must not be. This is the essence of Article 6(1) of the proposed Law. When it comes, of course, to the procedure and decision-making, especially when it comes to unlawful court proceedings. So the comment and direct influence of any of any of us when we talk about court cases, concrete cases, concrete people, concrete fates and the case has not been legally completed in terms of the pressure on the judge, the judge as an expert, or as the person who solves this particular case.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47037	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47038	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. The HSP Club considers that the final bill in relation to first reading is far better and better quality, but by adopting this Act, we will make only one small step towards finalising the situation in the judiciary, i.e. for the functioning of the rule of law and for the effective work of the judicial authorities, primarily means courts. We still have to be aware that, that Croatian citizens are dissatisfied with the efficiency of the work of Croatian courts, Croatian judiciarys, and here I mean the state's attorney and all the institutions that are involved, and are also expecting from us, both the government and the courts to finally operate the rule of law. That is why we are proposing and we believe that it would finally work on the judiciary in order for the rule of law to start acting as citizens expect what they have right to and what we are obliged to do, it is necessary to immediately move towards resolving the most important issues. In order to achieve efficiency, there will normally have to be a change in the Law on Criminal Procedure and on, or criminal proceedings and the Law on Procedural Procedure, where many things will have to be resolved completely differently, so that there will be no delay, and every time they start over, so these disputes last for years, years and years, and eventually that variant will happen for a person to get a verdict and he died a year, two earlier. There must also be much to be done in that many things are particularly related to the litigation, the civil part being resolved either in court settlements or out-of-court settlements. And that state has to give its first positive example, and that's what we know, you've also seen the State's Attorney's Office report, and the State's Attorney's Office means representing the state in disputes when citizens are suing the state for damages or other matters. And according to what's happening now, we know what the situation is in the state budget and the order of the executive authority is, it's been before, which is now that these disputes are constantly being used or regular or extraordinary legal medicines for them to last, to last, the state has no money to pay for it. Obviously, there's a value somewhere between 10 and 14 billion kunas where the state according to the state of things in many files will lose that part because the actual state of affairs is undeniable, but the state's attorney is doing it just to buy time. But unfortunately, expenses are piling up. So the first part will be to go into that part and get rid of this by out-of-court settlements or court settlements and determine the exact time when and how it will be paid to the citizens. Because that way we're going to do a lot of cutting down on all these cases and disputes in the courts. The important thing about all this is that we need to fix the work of the state administration because the lack of functioning of the state administration automatically has an echo on the congestion of courts related to new cases. And the third important thing in all of this is that we are constantly talking about from the HSP Club, the frequent change in the law is causing another additional burden for courts, for the work of courts, because they can't, because some changes are even essential in nature, and especially in disputes that are already being conducted and run, and according to the laws of or the Law on litigation, all things are coming back from the beginning, and most of all the issues are the part of that which is making regulations in the emergency, the law in the emergency procedure is essentially not a simulation of the practical application of all these provisions that will have legal effects, so that what is our urgency, the urgency of the Government, the legislator, unfortunately, is not given the provisions and the judge can't be ruled out as the public would like because the judge has to judge some of the SDP colleagues say according to the standards. So these standards have brought us into this situation, but in accordance with the laws and not on the basis of political applications, but again in accordance with the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47039	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary of Justice Snjezana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47040	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The question here is whether this law is good or bad and whether or not it needs to be taken from the point of view of its objective, and if we start from what is the purpose of this law, then I will agree with the views or claims put forward here that it is essentially not a revolutionary law, nor a law that will offer an answer to all the problems and how they should be solved in the Croatian judiciary. Therefore, in this segment it is not a radical law, although it is part of the judicial reform and it is a law that offers system solutions, solutions that need to give answers, instructions for the work of all those working in the judiciary, judges, the presidents of the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice in that district in which it oversees the work of the judiciary. I am saying this because it is necessary to go from the objective of this law, which is normised in Article 1 and which is governed by the establishment, in part and in real jurisdiction of the courts if it is not laid down by other law of the internal body of the courts, the internal structure of the Supreme Court, the conditions for the appointment and resolution of judges, judges, and their rights and duties, and the protection of persons and judges. As a result of this objective of this law, I believe that the law offers a good framework and offers certain newspapers and shifts that have shown themselves in the current practice of frequent amendments and additions to this Law. There has been a lot of talk here and debated of course that the judiciary is independent, but that it is subject to court both to the public and to the internal controls and mechanisms of its internal control. In this direction, the important segment of this Law is indeed the judicial administration as such and the judicial administration within the Ministry of Justice. In particular, within the framework of the judicial administration and those in charge of the judicial administration, as this is primarily the President of the Court, they are obliged to worry, to take care of the orderly and timely conduct of cases in the court, the judicial statistics, and to provide information on the work of the court and other matters prescribed by law and the Rules of Procedure. I am saying this because it was said that the courts are not subject to public and public ear. Of course they are. In the framework of the judicial administration, the same tasks are the same. Why am I saying that? Because it has been said here that there are many mechanisms relating to the organisation of the work of the court, but that is, there are no provisions relating to who is responsible and why. I must therefore warn of those provisions concerning the evaluation of the work of judges. First, it is assessed by the President of the Court whether he has resolved the number of files required according to framework criteria, the structure of those files, whether he has resolved them within a certain time limit and the evaluation of judges by the Judicial Council, but the judicial council that remains established in the higher courts assesses the judges when they are running for senior court, in general or when they are given the term of office if they are first appointed after five years. In addition, there is a control of the work of the President of the Court whether it performs its affairs neatly or unsettledly. Finally, if established on the basis of such parameters and criteria, whether by the President of the Court or by the Judicial Council, the judge or the President of the Court may take his or her affairs into account. He can get rid of it if... administrative proceedings are initiated, and if the President of the Court is the Minister of Justice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, I'm not calling for a guilty hunt here, but the fact is that even in courts, there must be a quality, effective system of control in the judiciary. Changes have also been made in this direction regarding control by the justice ministry. Therefore, the formation of a special department, judicial inspection which affects this part of the control and this provision of Article 82, if I am not mistaken as to the fact that the President of the Court, directly the excess court, may designate one or more judges to exercise control of the orderly conduct of the proceedings of the judge. Yeah, that's possible control. It is a provision of some change, so although there has been so far it does not refer to it, and I think we are all at a certain contradiction to how the judge made the decision, but how he applied procedural regulations in the process, whether he had scheduled the hearings, whether he applied the procedural provisions entirely. I, too, am pleased to announce here that just as the Supreme Court as the largest court in the Republic of Croatia has made one programme by which it goes alone to control the work of lower courts in order to pay particular attention to this segment of their work. It has also been observed that there is no statistics. There is, there is court statistics. Statistical yearbook, report is published every year. But if I may use that expression, he's out of date. It gives us an answer to a lot of questions, but not all the questions that we'd like to see, and that's what the structure of civil objects is like. We have a division into criminal, civil, outside of litigation, land-booking, but not on the structure of the case, for example, labour, damage, etc. nor gives us an answer to the question of how long these procedures take, both before which court, so before, as before in its total duration. In fact, with the Supreme Court by the end of the year, the Ministry of Justice will create this new structure of statistics that will temporarily provide and offer answers to some new questions, but the situation will be fully applied in about two years. I know it sounds unlikely now, but as part of the information as one means of assistance that can't get past the judiciary, two years from now, the automated management system of the court files will be applied, where the way of the judicial administration as such will be run not only in another way, in the other media, so electronically, but then through these data that is being introduced there by simple operations, it will be possible to see everything both individual work and total aggregated data, and in this direction is going to form a special department of IT. Second, when it comes to the constant training of judges, or the fact that this Law did not offer all answers to questions, he cannot offer an answer to the question of how we will resolve the writings. He can only offer it through organisational solutions. If it's a good organization, there's a lot to be done. This shows some examples carried out through the control of the Ministry of Justice on the one hand, on the other hand through specific measures introduced by the courts. On this occasion, I just have to say that when it comes to land-book items from last September 1st last year to today's number of delays, so I'm not talking about the inflow of objects, but the backlog has been reduced by 110 000. This is of course related to the introduction of new methods of electronic data processing as well as other organisations. Because I have to warn here that the court organization isn't the same as any other system. We have here in our judicial system large courts such as the Zagreb court, which is the most convincing court in the Republic of Croatia. Greater courts such as the courts in Rijeka, Osijek and Split and small courts, the MP mentioned, say, a court in Buje and suggested that it be a court full of jurisdiction. It is simple in these conditions when there are not enough judges who could judge in those councils that are required for such a type of crime. And that's another big question that opens up in front of all of us. This law does not offer those solutions at this stage, nor can it offer them. This is part of the overall strategy that I hope will soon be found in the debate before this House, an important, complex issue, a sensitive issue which, in its entirety, with the direct task of fighting the backlogs, determines our future, and that is, I will call briefly, the rationalisation of the judicial network. It will need to answer questions as to how many courts it needs, which species and with which jurisdiction. It's a complex sensitive question, requires a series of analysis. The question, for example, is just buildings. If you join only two courts where all the persons who move to that court to whom another, a smaller court is attached will then be placed. It's a strategic issue that can't be easily accessed. That is why a solution is also proposed here to see all advantages on the basis of one pilot, possible shortcomings of such a solution before the final court is generally taken and of course no one but the Croatian Parliament will ultimately be able to decide. It is up to us who are in the executive government to offer the best possible solutions through a series of analyses over a short period of 6 to a year, to equip the number of persons, to go to retirement, to the state of buildings, to the burden, to the jurisdiction of the courts. Certain projects are being done, some recommendations are being made, but they are not enough. Furthermore, experts themselves can give us guidance, good examples from the practices that we need to see, the countries themselves, which we must apply to our situation. Next, as far as the judges are concerned. That's what's necessary, and that's what I said in the opening statement. Why? And here at this pay phone, it's been said more than once that it's not easy for judges either. They face frequent changes in regulations that happen several times in the course of the year. On the one hand, it is not easy to find yourself in all those woods, to apply all the regulations. On the one hand, judges also need to be further perfected and introduced to time with new instruments. I have to say, it's not always the easiest answer to change the law. That's what we witnessed here. One general assessment may be of those who come from outside, so in this sense they are unburdened that our procedural laws are already currently offering certain procedural instruments which can already be applied to reduce certain procedures. So, in this direction, we need to increase our education, on the one hand. On the other hand, see if and where we need to really change the law. And as far as the Judicial Academy is concerned, I'm sorry that Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic's distinguished MPs are not presently presently, it is true, the Court Education Centre once existed in the ministry. However, two years ago it was founded as a special institution, the Judicial Academy which currently employs 8 people and the Judicial Academy spent the last year, held 63 workshops for standard education. So, meeting judges with all their tasks, public relations, professional ethics, etc. which was attended by about a thousand students, which judges, state lawyers and about 63 specialized courses. 37, I'm sorry, 37 specialized workshops or courses attended by about 640 judges, state lawyers. That's what I'm saying because it was a question, and I'm asked by the distinguished representative Gordana Sobol to answer the question of the fate of family courts. As for the possible "discretion" of the law, the provisions of Article 13 of the law, she says: "The law may be established by law under real jurisdiction or by other regular and specialised courts for certain legal areas.". So this provision says and so is explained on page 42, along with this provision of the law that it may be by some special law. Whoever sets up the departments is the answer to us in Article 32 of the annual schedule of affairs under this law and the Rules of Procedure may be determined by the President of the Court. As for family courts and generally specialised courts. As part of the strategy, this issue can be considered. General Strategy... The Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that it is necessary to work on the one hand to reduce courts, on the other hand to form specialised departments and specialize in judges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, as far as family departments are concerned, they will be founded by new highest courts. Also on the annual schedule of jobs for next year, the Municipal Court of Zagreb, Split, provides for the establishment of special departments. In fact, it is simply impossible in some courts that are smaller to form departments because they are not there, they do not meet these conditions. So that's where you're going to have to work on the judge's specialization. Otherwise, the Ministry of Justice has not asked or will seek fully aware as courts that as of January 1st next year he and take over this sensitive issue of family laws and so far not only has one workshop been held, nor has it started a month ago, it began much more than a year ago. And we have regular contacts, both with the court, except for the biggest one, which will have the biggest access object, this shows all the figures, such as Zagreb, Split and Rijeka, on one side. On the other hand, with the department of power to take over the matter as painlessly as possible. And finally, that the judiciary, the courts in the public court show both the debate and the controversy that developed over the provision of Article 6 of this law which, I must admit, does not mean that there is no need to debate and that it cannot be changed and that the old provision of the law is better. But it only shows how sensitivity and the relationship of all of us, both the representatives and the public according to the work of the courts and the way. And what the public means is the work of the court is increased, possibly offered by certain examples. It can be considered that the provision changes, however, I must say that if I use the term interference, we must distinguish the commenting of court decisions. A lot of cases have been commented, and through the media and the public, and I don't know that anyone has been prosecuted and that was the problem. But here there is a difference of influence, from the influences that democratic society has. Of course today's interest is everywhere, not just in the public domain to be in line with European standards. This law and its amendments and additions were repeatedly subject to criticism by experts from foreign Councils of Europe regarding these standards. So far, at least in terms of this provision, and I don't know if there have been any objections, but I'm saying, it doesn't mean that she can't and may not need to change to make her statement clearer. But I'm saying, there's a difference between commenting and influence. Here we are talking about any form of influence on the decision-making process. And in that actually function goes the formation of a spokeswoman. Not to silence the truth and to change it. There is no need to do so, but to inform the public objectively and properly of the work of the court, including the situation in a particular case, because the courts also oblige the application of the Law on legal access to information, of course in this segment and beyond that data that they must, either under this law or under special laws, remain secret. That's it. I seem to have touched all the important remarks that were highlighted in this section. As much as I could in this weather. I thank all those who have made their remarks and suggestions because it is our common interest to make this law as good and clear as possible and the Proposer will carefully consider all amendments submitted to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47041	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Court Act, second reading. The debate on the text of the law is over. We also have two amendments to the government that were brought after the deadline. We should discuss and vote whether we will debate and vote on these amendments. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 72 votes for, 13 abstentions and 8 against. Let's go, explain the secretary of state first this amendment relating to Article 74.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47043	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. As I said earlier on the amendment to the Law on the State Judicial Council and this amendment to Article 74. The law on courts relating to the implementation, the application of the criteria prescribed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities where the appointment and filling of a place in judicial bodies should take into account the actual representation of members of the national minority. This seems to be, that provision is being discussed constitutionally in these proposed amendments in ways that I have already said before. This is therefore to say that the appointment of judges must take into account the representation of judges in accordance with those criteria and criteria laid down in the constitutional law, its provision in Article 22(2) as... The minority, and also to be a member of the national minority in order to guarantee that right, has the right, that is, to call on that nationality to fill that place, to report to that vacant place. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47044	I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47045	Mr. President, I really need to show dissatisfaction with these amendments. Namely, a colleague here just before threw the count of blood cells, which is offensive to the Croatian Parliament, because no one from our club counts anyone's blood cells but we intend to become a judge in Croatia regardless of what level from the constitutional judge to the municipal judge the only criterion should be competence, ability and expertise, and not one's blood cell count. This amendment does not solve practically anything in practice because the competition for a judge can be reported by five members of the different national minorities and five members to forgive the majority of Croatian people who could also wish to become judges in such a contest and I am really interested in it, here we only vote, and we do not get an answer as high-quality as just before asked by MP Kovacevic, I ask again, so that in practice it would seem to be a Serbian, one Italian, one Hungarian, one German, and I don't know who else, and the two Croats apply and the competition is for one judge. If we had in that case Croats who would compete, what their ability to compete would be, say, now I'm talking about the Supreme Court, I don't know how many there are, like, nine judges. There aren't any Serbs, maybe. A free seat would it make sense for a Croatian to run along with a Serb or Italian or any other national minority to run in such a place? I ask you to explain to us the secretary of state, to make it seem in practice, in which way you would define the criteria, which minority would have the advantage, whether only one that is the biggest in Croatia or perhaps have the opportunity to achieve it I do not know and the Germans who have several hundred in Croatia for well-known reasons. I ask you to give us some answers to the questions we ask you here as parliamentary representatives. We will vote against the amendments and against the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47046	National Minority Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Furio Radin. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So what, I've seen... Not like a club? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In this case, only club representatives can. Club representatives. For the National Minorities Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47047	I think the adoption of this amendment corrects the injustices committed in the recent past. If we go to see today how many judges or how many people in general in the judiciary belong to national minorities, we'll see that the percentage is defeated for national minorities and then the normal thing is that the first normal thing is, just a little bit, go see the percentages and you'll see. The normal thing is that he's coming, Mr. President, I'd be begging you, it's hard for me to concentrate if everyone attacks me on the side like that. The normal thing then is that the principle of positive discrimination must be applied. Everyone knows that ability is the first criterion, but it is also a criterion that there is one alcove, that there is one percentage of people in the judiciary from national minorities who simply give a picture of Croatia's national composition today. And that means how it's going to be enforceable it's actually not at all controversial, because even to the present, because the Law on the Judiciary is I think in Article 66, it prescribes that for example. Judges or people in the judiciary that they have to show their nationality. You see, every step of the way, it's asking our nationality, so now it's coming out how it's going to be possible to do that. Our nationality whether or not we will, well or not, is well known, and then it will be possible to carry out such a procedure. And if there will be five people from national, different national minorities for one job, I would still like to see that picture. When he shows up, we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47048	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47049	Your Honor, Mr. President, what Mr. Radin said is incorrect that it can be implemented. It's inconclusive. You will have to make systematicisations from municipal courts to county courts and to the Supreme Court, how much each court must have per national structure. It's only then that it's going to be feasible and you're going to have to figure out how many Italians it's going to be, how many Italians it's going to be, how many Italians it's going to be. It's totally inconclusive, it's nowhere in the world. You don't have that anywhere in the world. But to do that, you have to do it because there's no other way, so I'm saying I simulate justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47050	IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47051	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representative. Of course I... IDS, that none of our MPs have anything against constitutional law. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] The final law has power over the law, and we know the same why we passed that law in 96 when there were some very different standards in these areas than they are today. But what the IDS Club has serious objections to, is that representatives of national minorities are being defended by so-called. the double right to vote or the principle of positive discrimination that deprives those political parties, does not matter whether Croatian or any other omens who sincerely represent national minorities are in an unequal position compared to other political options. It's a serious problem that we'll also, I hope, have to open, although I'm not running from the fact that the existing election law is a good law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47052	Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47053	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities was not adopted and adopted in the Croatian Assembly in 96 but in 2002... Well, it's not like that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47054	My colleague Cain, please choose to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47055	Which regulates these relations, and I must personally say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is absolutely right to prepare such an amendment to comply with the Constitutional Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47056	SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47057	This question about possible situations that can happen in reality is of course that they can be asked for every possible opportunity and for this one, but one thing is quite clear. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in its individual provisions must also be incorporated into certain specific laws such as this Law on Courts and that is why we are, which is why the Government has proposed that this Article 22. It transposes the constitutional law into those provisions of the Law on Courts which will allow, as provided for by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the representation of members of national minorities in the judiciary. As far as the issue of representation is concerned, according to the data we have, members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are about 8% of the total population, and in courts there is about 3.5%. In some areas, there may be no need to take care of these future provisions of the Law on Courts, in some areas there is a need for this, and it is likely that when circumstances arise when they are hired by Croatian defenders who, according to the Law on Croatian Defence, also have the priority to be kept accountable for this fact. As far as courts are concerned, such as trade courts, trade courts, according to records held by the Ministry of Justice back several months, there are only 0.0% of national minorities. Therefore, I would not like us to open here to debate some realities because these realities will certainly be in the practice that we are building through the laws that we are adopting here in this House. And if it's one place for someone... It is quite clear that these criteria will be primarily the one I am talking about Mr Djapic, which are professional, qualified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if it is the environment, whether it is Italian or Serbian or any other minority where it lives in a relatively significant number, it is likely that a minority representation in municipal or county courts will be taken into account in such an environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47058	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47059	Well, first thing I have to say, we're not against constitutional law. We are for its implementation, it is not at all questionable. And I need to make it right about what the Honorable counsellor said. The defense attorneys were never affected because both the current law and the former was told that the championship does not apply to appointments. So it never did. There were thousands of disputes where defenders complained and none of the disputes were won because there was an interpretation of always not to refer to the office to be elected, no other bodies were appointed. And also, now watch the legal credentials when I say incompetence. A man who believes that he is damaged, a member of a national minority, will ask the appeal authority to exercise his right if it is not prescribed in the form of a court that one place belongs to a national minority. So we're going to that variant now. He is unsatisfactory and submits a request that he, as a member of the national minority, should have been elected judge and that, which he will, as a crucial argument, put forward for that part that this would have been implemented and that, for example, the Constitutional Court or any other body responsible in that part, would say "yes, the election is annulled because he had the right". So, without what I said, it's impossible. We speak from the aspect of incompetence, not from the aspect that the Constitutional Law should not be respected. God forbid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47060	HSLS Club, DC, LS, Honored Representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47061	Your Honor, Mr. President. Without contesting the government's right to refer to amendments, we now think that this should have been discussed. We are, of course, in respect of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and if it calls for this Constitutional Law when it comes to positive discrimination against judges or possible judges of other national minorities, then we certainly support this amendment. But I think the intensity of a fellow HSP is good because that law that's not enforceable actually doesn't mean much. In order for the law to become law, he must be enforceable. And in this context, it may have to be pointed out, although it is in the Constitutional Law, that it is those areas, municipalities, cities, counties where a relative percentage of the national minority in a particular region is also possible for judges to be members of national minorities. I think that's how we'd avoid any doubt. Because often in our legislative intensity, we think that just by passing the law, they will be implemented. He won't. So, often reality resists and administrations and I think that in that sense it should have been closer, if the government can say that by its amendment, to determine, to indicate, to see how it will be implemented. But of course, as a liberal citizen party, we absolutely support the possibility and right of positive discrimination, aware that it is always of course principled.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47062	HDZ Representatives' Club, president, respected Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47063	Mr. President, I suggest on behalf of the Club that we postpone the decision on this law because we at the club must consult and then give enough time and then decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47064	I'll postpone it until we agree on the point of view. And the debate and the vote, and the amendments and the whole of the law. Thank you, Minister. Final proposal of the Court Act. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No light turned on but something else didn't turn on. We'll think about it another time. Final proposal of the Court Act. Minister, here's your amendment plate. Just one moment. This law requires 77 votes. It's an amendment to the government. Minister, please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47066	In the first amendment submitted by the Government, it concerns the representation of national minorities in judicial bodies. The amendment submitted by the Government is practically in line with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Therefore, the appointment of judges must take into account the representation of judges of members of national minorities in accordance with the provisions of Article 22 of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. And when members of national minorities submit applications for a published court seat, they shall have the right to appeal to the exercise of the right which they have in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. We have practically ensured representation in the judicial bodies, representation of national minorities in accordance with the provisions of the special law, taking into account the participation of members of national minorities in the total population at the level at which the judicial body was established and the rights acquired. I must say, an amendment like this has been passed in the State Judiciary Council Act. Practically the same content.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47067	I'm opening a debate. Representatives of the clubs on this debate. ... We've already decided that Mr. Vice President at the last vote, so please take care of it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't throw it away because it's already settled, keep it under wraps. What? On behalf of the National Minorities Club, Honored Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47068	I only have one question, Madam Minister. We're writing, you can write the first sentence at the beginning, just to repeat it to me, because we found out that in the laws that say "can" means that it can't, it looks that way. Oh, 'cause that's what you're saying, you can, you don't have to, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47069	They have the right to call.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47070	Please, please. There's no such discussion. The amendment is the same...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47071	He did say we're opening a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47072	Take it easy, Minister. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47073	Yeah. Take care, that was our proposal. And not "it can be guided," because we found that wherever, from the Constitutional Law to the law, it says "can", it means "can't." You understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47074	So, my colleague Furio Radin, in the amendment, says, "In the event of the appointment of judges, you must...."
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47075	It's got to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47076	Well, please be quiet. Well, you can see we don't hear each other. I'm putting it to the vote. I'm closing the debate and I'm voting on that amendment. We can vote. The result? 95 for, 3 abstentions and 10 against. That amendment has been accepted. Second amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47077	The second amendment of the Government refers to the trial within a reasonable period of time. We've introduced this provision for a truly long-term court procedure, a reasonable three-year term. This amendment practically made it even more clear the articles that well regulate the decision on the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, discharging the Constitutional Court and transferring the cases to other courts. However, the law itself did not clarify enough that it was already brought before the Constitutional Court with cases which had already been brought before the Constitutional Court, or whether these cases would also be transferred to the Supreme Court. No, because it is those cases brought to the Constitutional Court that need to be settled by the Constitutional Court. So, only by passing this law do things go to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47078	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 93 for 5 abstentions, 4 against this amendment. I am now voting on the final draft of the law. I'm sorry, we still have the plate a lot of amendments. Do you have a secretary's license plate? Yes, you do. Representative Ivo Josipovic, amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47079	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47080	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second amendment of Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47081	The amendment is not accepted because it has already been accepted in the first part, in the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47082	Representative Stazic?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47083	Since the amendment of my colleague Josipovic was accepted, I am pleased to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47084	Thank you. Amendment two withdrawn. The third amendment by attorney Ana Lovrin and representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47085	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47086	It becomes an integral part of the law. The fourth, representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47087	The amendment is not accepted because it is covered by the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47088	He's gone. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? We can vote. The result? 23 for, 7 abstentions, 67 against, he didn't get the necessary majority. Fifth amendment of MP Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47089	This amendment does not accept because it has already been consummated by the adoption of the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47090	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. ... Amendment withdrawn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. The sixth, representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47091	It also refers to the same amendment that has already been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47092	Consumed, we don't vote on him. Seventh, representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47093	The amendment is also not accepted because it has already been consumed by the previously accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47094	Consumed, but we don't vote. Eighth, MP Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47095	This amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47096	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47097	This amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47098	Please make it a little louder. And give your colleagues and colleagues a little attention, so must it be, can't be heard, please? ... It's not like he's picking up a microphone, it's like someone's putting something else down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47099	This amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47100	8th Amendment accepted. The ninth amendment of MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47101	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47102	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47103	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47104	It becomes an integral part of the law. The tenth, representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47105	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47106	The vote. Who's in favour of that amendment. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 30 for, 3 abstentions, 64 against, did not get the required majority. 11, MPs Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47107	The amendment is not accepted, it's about specialized courts, so they're specialized, not special, I mean, then our solution is better.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47108	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47109	The name of specialised courts would refer to those courts which would judge only in one part of one branch of the trial, so the proposed statement as the amendment has been better and more precisely defined by the division of courts. We can imagine the situation when special family courts are formed, these are family courts. So inside the court at the civil branch of the trial.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47110	Voting?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47111	The vote, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47112	Please engage. Who's in favour of this amendment? We can vote. The result? 27 for, 4 abstentions, 68 against, did not get the required majority. 12, also MPs Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47113	This amendment has not been accepted, as we consider it unnecessary because paragraph 2 of the same article states that the courts, exceptionally referred to in paragraph 1, may be tried in places outside their seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47114	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47115	Well, I think it's necessary to determine that courts don't just judge in their seats, they judge in the eyewitnesses, so they come out of the courtroom, and they're different places. At the end of the day, maybe it was undeniable. Let's just remember the president of the association who said that he could go anywhere, anywhere, and he didn't have to report to the president of the court and even when he didn't. I think precisely because of the situation in which justice and discipline are present today, that it is necessary to state.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47116	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Come on, come on, come on, come on, You can vote. The result? 26 for, 4 abstentions, 70 against, did not get the required majority. 13, representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47117	This amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47118	It becomes an integral part of the law. 14, also representing Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47119	And this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47120	It becomes an integral part of the law. 15, also representing Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47121	And that amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47122	It becomes an integral part of the law. 16, also representing Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47123	And that amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47124	It becomes an integral part of the law. 17, MPs Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47125	This amendment cannot be accepted, it is a reasonable deadline and we want to relieve the Constitutional Court, it is practically resolved by the Government amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47126	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47127	Well, it just seems that this norm seems to solve the situation, but all those complainants who are suing just because their case hasn't been solved within a certain time, they're going to re-apply to the court, though, to a higher court of higher degree. So this means that we're going to have twice the number of objects, you're going to see what happens. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47128	Please engage. He can vote. The result? 25 for, 4 abstentions, 68 against, did not get the required majority. 18, representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47129	This amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47130	It becomes an integral part of the law. 19, MPs Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47131	This amendment is not accepted for reasons because the president is also a judge. So it can be covered, it's about... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47132	Please, one group keeps talking. And then when I warn them, they continue at an even higher pace. Encouragement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47133	I said the amendment is not accepted, because this provision is too high, the president of the court is also a judge. So it's about the court's spokesmans.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47134	But you see, so far in the present situation, the presidents of the courts have played the role of court spokesmans. We were witnessing that the courts would have special court speakers, which was certainly to be welcomed, but it was expected that it would be professional, not that we would be spending judges, and that not even the President of the Court who was often resolved the duties of trial, especially in larger courts, and then it was logical and that he was already dealing with it, but rather this way the President of the Court will appoint another judge who, of course, has a regular trial and in this way does not solve much, because it was an announcement that court spokesmen would be special persons who are not judges, and now we see that this is not the case. Please vote, then I'd better stay with the President of the Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47135	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 28 for, one abstention, 70 against, did not get the required majority. 20, MPs Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47136	This amendment is not accepted because I am holding the chamber cannot... member of the Judicial Council only on the grounds that a tight procedure has been initiated.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47137	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47138	Given the possible situation in real life, a judicial official may commit, so who is also a member of this council, commits a serious crime, a serious crime, and it would be a simple situation that would scandal the public so that this person would continue to be a member of the council and even a court. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47139	The vote. Come on, come on, come on, come on, We can vote. The result? 27 for, 2 abstentions and 65 against. 21, representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47140	This amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47141	It becomes an integral part of the law. 22, Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47142	This amendment is not accepted because it is status data which cannot be given because it is contrary to the Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47143	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47144	I think it's quite unwarranted that all this data that also exists about us, the public is familiar with them, and I don't know why the data, the success data at the study, and the other information that the public has to be familiar with when faced with the person of a judge. And I mean, there's really no reason to be some kind of secret. There is an assessment of the conduct of the judicial duty, progress data, data on success in the course of studies, appointments, resolutions. Why would that be a secret? Especially in order to open up justice to the public, for the sake of the purity of that calling, the public may in exactly this way question, and there is no, I say, any reason not to have that information made available to the public. In fact, it's in the interest of the judiciary. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47145	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 34 for, 3 abstentions, 57 against. 23rd, MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47146	This amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47147	It becomes an integral part of the law. 24, MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47148	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47149	It becomes an integral part of the law. 25. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47150	This amendment has already been consummated in the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47151	Consent? Amendment withdrawn. 26, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47152	It has also already been incorporated into the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47153	Thank you. Amendment 26. 27, MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47154	This amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47155	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47156	There'll be surprises.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47157	There's no reason to make a decision, to make the assessment decision by a secret vote. After it determines what makes one assessment. So there was a situation and you must know it well, our public knows it too. That the judges who did their job perfectly, followed the 180% standard, did not vote for them... It is time for them to stand behind their decision in this very way, even within this council. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Such situations certainly wouldn't happen... After an assessment and certain relevant and objective data has been established, to hide behind a secret vote. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47158	Please engage. You can vote. The result? 26 for, 3 abstentions, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 28th, representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47159	This amendment is not accepted. We think it's stronger and better solved by a legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47160	To vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 22 for, 4 abstentions, 62 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29th Amendment of MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47161	This amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47162	It becomes an integral part of the law. 30. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47163	This amendment is practically incorporated into the Government's amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47164	Amendment withdrawn, thank you. 31st representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47165	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47166	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 32nd was also represented by Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47167	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47168	It becomes an integral part of the law. 33rd representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47169	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-15-0.u47170	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Minister. I don't think we have anything more than an amendment. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 92 for, 3 abstentions and 7 against. The majority adopted the Law on Courts in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next point. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, second reading of P.Z. No. 258 The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Justice and Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Reports you received at the session. I ask State Secretary of the Justice Ministry Snjezana Bagic to further explain the proposal, the final draft of the law. Here you go.
