ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35282	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club and a significant number of Croatian citizens addressing the HSP club, I would like to ask you to take appropriate measures regarding the work of the investigation committee for the case of Cacic Tomcic. Apparently, they took it inconclusively, because they keep making arrangements when they're going to meet. So we ask you, therefore, as President of the Parliament who is also responsible for implementing the Croatian Parliament's decisions to guide them or to start doing their part of the work. Or to resolve them, because in this way, only the laziness is created in the media, and that is the main news that citizens rightly protest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35283	Thank you very much. I will, in accordance with my powers, also propose to the President of the Commission and the Commission that it be given in accordance with Parliament's decision and act. So we go to this - The final proposal of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities; the Proposer of the Law is the Government. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, local and regional self-government. I would like the Secretary of State of the Central State Office for the Administration of Antun Palarić to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35284	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After the Croatian Parliament's decision to discuss the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia in two readings. The government has prepared a final proposal for the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. To the greatest extent possible, she noted the comments made in the first reading debate. This law is also proposed in a different form in table form in order to facilitate compliance. But in principle, the government remains with its basic intensities, which is to establish eight new municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The area structure would be surrounded by 125 towns, 433 municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and of course the city of Zagreb as the capital of the Republic of Croatia. The law is required according to the wishes and will of citizens who have expressed an initiative to establish new units of local self-government. In assessing the financial potential, the government has concluded that these new proposed municipalities have the basis for developing and providing rights to local self-government for citizens residing in their territory. We have also accepted a large number of amendments that were proposed in the right reading in this text of the law if it was based on decisions of city councils or parish assemblies. And it concerned the separation of settlements, the merger of settlements, the change of name of settlements. We therefore propose that this law be adopted as a better text in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35285	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35286	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Secretary of State said that the law was done according to the wishes of the citizens, that is not true. The desire is for the inhabitants of Brodarica to become a municipality that is not respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35287	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35288	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. The current law, which has been in force since 97, has been amended 15 times. Practically every year several times except last year. But let me say a few words about the very structure that has practically been in effect since 93. And it has been shown in practice that this structure is good, because the number of units of local self-government that we often talk about is too great, has proved to have contributed to a better and more balanced development of the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely because of a large number of municipalities, often very small and territorial and per capita population that helped to develop small communities almost in the construction of municipal infrastructure. So we have small municipalities with often thousands and fewer inhabitants that have communal infrastructure at the level of many cities. Even more developed than certain urban peripheries, from water supply, road construction, public lighting, and they've worked a lot on the development of the economy. I am convinced that this would have been very difficult to achieve if they had stayed in the midst of the former large communities. What kind of device was in place until 93. Many of them have become or have already become real small urban centres, where significant and economic activity is taking place. So I am convinced that this number of newly formed units of local self-government justified its existence. And I think that this territorial structure is good and it does not need to be changed in a significant way, but surely it needs to be done exactly by respecting the will of the citizens. The fact is, however, that the number of requests for border change and the formation of new units of local self-government has decreased. Which shows us that citizens' aspirations are mostly satisfied. This proposal for the initiative arrived over the past year has been processed. They are incorporated into the text of the law, and most of the legitimate requirements are incorporated into this final draft law. The law itself accurately defines the area and the headquarters of all counties does not foresee in that part any change. The proposal introduces changes that relate to changes to the names of the settlement itself. At the same time, the bill defines and determines how to change the names of the settlement itself. At the same time, the bill defines and determines how the borders between units of local self-government are changed and provides for the establishment of a commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as an arbitration officer in the event of a dispute. It also provides for a legal protection institute for the rights and interests of parties in the process of establishing borders. At the same time, the law redefines the way in which citizens' opinions are examined and collected in the event of a request to change borders or requirements for the establishment of new units of local self-government. In the debate on this topic, there were many obstacles because this proposal does not need to seek the opinion of the unit of local self-government, municipality or city whose area of change is sought. Where a request has been submitted by at least one third of the citizens for the area for which the change is sought. At the same time, it remains a provision to seek the opinion of the County Assembly in whose area the change is sought. I believe that this provision is good because we have often been faced in practice with the fact that the local self-government unit from whose area is sought is obstructing the adoption of opinions which are not binding anyway so that certain city or municipal councils do not simply want to place that point on the agenda of their sessions, thinking that this would be sufficient reason for that environment or that part of the city or municipality to remain in their composition. It is logical that no unit of local self-government wants its reduction, but I also believe that the will of citizens should be respected. At the same time, all amendment promoters are obliged to obtain the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a change, not just the opinion of the Ministry of Finance as it has been so far. I think that's good because not only can the criteria for self-financing be the only criterion for justifying the formation of new municipalities. I have also very precisely defined the bill's proposal myself after changing the area or forming a new unit of local self-government from the very period of law-making to the establishment of new representative bodies since the taking over of cases after the constitution, division of property and mutual rights and obligations and also defines the authority of the Government if the mutual agreement cannot be reached. For all of these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35289	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35290	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is good that this law came immediately to a second reading, and before the local elections, although it would be best if we had brought it perhaps a few months ago to make the issue of preparations for elections both in those municipalities and in the cities that are founded again more thorough. I am not going to use the State Secretary's presence now to warn the two provisions of this law which, in practice, cause and may cause a lot of problems of apology, prevent municipal and city councils from respecting the laws. In accordance with Articles 27 and 29, it regulates the procedure for establishing the borders of certain settlements, the borders of certain municipalities and cities and suggests that unless an agreement is reached between two, three or more units of local self-government that this dispute is then resolved by the Committee for Borders and that the final or final decision is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions that have been proposed are good but flawed and therefore I am going with the amendment that deadlines in which both the Borders Committee and the Government must resolve the cases which have been delivered to them and entered into the law. I suggested 30 days. It could be someone saying it's too short. The government has a chance to say that it's a 60-day optimal deadline. Why does it matter? As long as the limits have not been established, either by agreement, whether by the arbitration action of the Commission or by the Government itself, no spatial plan of any of the municipalities in which they are in the dispute or not defined. Expansive plans are a prerequisite for many other activities, especially establishing the boundaries of the settlement, especially for the formation of building land for the purpose or entrepreneurship zones, zones or areas where farms and other agricultural buildings or residential buildings can be built. By selling building land, a large number of municipalities make significant revenues and thus replaces the lack of tax revenue they reinvest in further development of municipal infrastructure. Now I already know that before that commission is a large number of requests that have not been resolved for several years. The deadlines for the adoption of spatial plans two, three times have been extended so that that provision on disbanding the representative body should not apply unless those plans are adopted in time. And here we have a situation that the commission does not have a legally prescribed deadline within which it must make its decision as well as in Article 29. The government does not have a deadline within which it must resolve the appeal if a certain municipality complains about the commission's decision. In all other laws, procedures and procedures, especially when it comes to the obligation of a citizen or a local self-government, we have set deadlines for not keeping those deadlines and sanctions, so far away from missing some deadlines can also result in the disbanding of the municipal or city council. Just in order to speed up the settlement of cases that are already in place or which may occur in the time to come, I consider it necessary that Articles 27 and 29 of the Law provide for deadlines in which cases must be settled in order to enable municipalities and cities to continue to implement those decisions or solutions that will be made and to comply with other legal provisions. I ask the Government and the representatives of the office when it will be obvious and consider these two amendments to realize that it is only an attempt to force the state administration to resolve disputes within a reasonable and appropriate timeframe which were not locally resolved. And two more remarks on Articles 31 and 32. When we pass the law and use terms that can be interpreted differently in practice, then we know in advance that we will have possible disputes and conflicts. Thus, Article 31 provides for the obligation that any proposing of any change must obtain the opinion of the citizens. What does the opinion of the citizens mean? Is that enough to sign some paper? Is that the opinion of the citizens is enough to be at the assembly of the local committee? Is that enough or must there be a referendum called and implemented in the referendum law? So this very opinion of the citizens was often interpreted differently by the fact that the idea of citizens was being obstructed, especially in municipalities where the proposal for separation was so that the settlements from one municipality to another or the requirements for forming into a new municipality were moved. We now have the opportunity to make this word clear: "thinking" that we know and disable different interpretations, which means that citizens have given their opinion, so how do citizens give an opinion on such initiatives. Article 32 also obliges any proposing to obtain the prior consent of the Government. Since all changes in territory are done only by amending the law, and the motion for change must have the prior consent of the Government, does this mean that, without this document, no one can come before the Parliament with the initiative to change this Law on Territories? The previous consensus means a positive opinion, a positive indication of the government. If the government is negatively obvious, then we are blocking the possibility that each proponent, with his proposal, should come before Parliament and that Parliament is making an amendment to the law, and I assume that the proposer himself wanted to say that the previous opinion of the Government is being considered, and the final decision is being made by the Parliament. So for this reason, and there will be such an amendment, I pray that this is indeed the word: "agreement" interprets that it is actually an opinion and that, before the final decision in the Parliament itself, we know in advance what the Government thinks about it. If the previous agreement remains, then no proposal that the government will not give a positive opinion in a formal sense will be able to come to the Assembly as a proposal for amending the law. I want to believe that we all agree, that after these elections at least four years there will be no change or need to change this law and that this mandate of local (regional) self-government that will follow the elections will be implemented without the need to amend this law. And that's why these misunderstandings that exist here and by introducing these deadlines into a quick dispute resolution that arises, we are making efforts not to really have 17, 18 changes to the law in just one term of local self-government. If both these amendments and the clarifications given here are accepted, I think there is a great chance that this law will be adopted by a large number of opposition votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35291	Thank you very much. Honored representative Zdenko Antesic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35292	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. There is a SDP club that believes that citizens' desire to establish their own units of local self-government is completely legitimate, however, lawfulness should be respected in all of this. So the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas defines the way in which these initiatives as legitimate will can be achieved by citizens. And each, therefore, and any such requirement which is legitimate and for which the legal requirements are met, will, by law, be supported by the SDP procedure. However, this law, the proposed law that we are discussing today, is contrary to the government's principle of irrationally increasing units of local self-government, because many of them, in fact, have neither elementary nor material, nor the humane conditions for functioning, or for fulfilling their legal obligations. In addition, in some examples, for example, the Municipality of Lopar, we reiterate once again that law has been released in the legal procedure, so a legally invalid initiative because the conditions are not met by law, which is that the amendment promoter must obtain, among other things, the opinion of the representative body of the units of local self-government from which the opinion of the County Assembly is separate. In my own, let me get this straight. In its argument, the proposer states that, within some reasonable period, the opinion of the unit of local self-government, i.e. the representative body, has been requested, however, called for the deafness of the representative body, i.e. the unit of local self-government separated from the specific municipality of Lopar. Once again, the truth is quite the opposite. The representative body, i.e. the city, sent a request to the central office of the state administration for a preliminary, obvious, or for the resolution of the previous issue, because from the date of completion of the signature of the locals, i.e. the statements of the locals for its municipality until the date on which the procedure was sent for more than 20 months and the city of Rab requested the central state office to declare whether the initiative was legally valid at all, i.e. whether it constitutes a legal basis for the initiation of the procedure for the separation of the municipality of Lopar. However, instead of making the central state office known, it has certainly been more than three months before today, it has completely disobeyed the issue and in the meantime, so it has put in the legal procedure a request to extract Lopar from the city of Rab and has therefore completely ignored it, so it has completely ignored the will of the citizens of the city of Rab and, in fact, put in the legal procedure a legally invalid initiative supported by the government and in that way made a legal precedent, because it is precisely the one competent body that needs to worry about legality that is acting exactly the opposite and puts in the legal procedure a legally invalid initiative, i.e. it violates the law. And now we're wondering what exactly the real reasons have led the government to do so. Obviously, therefore, it is obvious and unequivocal when someone decides to do so in this way, that it is a desire to do so through electoral engineering, i.e. by setting up units of local self-government to find a way to achieve good results in the upcoming local elections. That's the real reason, and I'm afraid with this way of handling the central state office, or government, we're going to have a hard time finding a place in countries that respect civil and legal standards of conduct. Secondly, the proposed legal text does not clearly define the way in which the initiators are declared changes, which leaves the possibility of manipulation, and especially in small areas, this happens very often. In fact, the proposed legal text states that it is necessary, that the initiator of change, for the initiative, is required to make a certain number of percentages of citizens known. However, we know from practice, and this is very often repeated in the field that the collection of signatures, i.e. the declaration, is in a way that is not, let's say, slightly democratic. I therefore propose to introduce a way, fully clearly defines the way to say it, and this can only be a secret statement, or some kind of referendum. And in that case, we would actually define, i.e., clear indicators of the will of citizens. Because in this way, it leaves the possibility of manipulation and then certain ambitious individuals who have a certain weight in the place collect signatures, and then it is actually seen that it was not the will of the citizens. Secondly, the proposed text further foresees that when putting the initiative into the process no longer needs to be asked for an opinion in the new legal text, therefore, the opinion of the representative body from which a part of the territory is separated. That means about, we've already told you here over and over again, that it would mean it to you like if someone wanted to separate part of your house or part of yours, I don't know, some property not only that you don't need to ask for consent, but you don't have to ask for your opinion at all. It's absolutely for touching the constitutional and legal powers of the local self-government unit and I think it's a precedent that cannot be supported. And it actually leaves one, leaving the possibility that, let's say, an ambitious group of citizens who has a clear foothold in the government set up their own community, or divide some territory towards, let's say, according to their opinion. From all of this, it's obvious that the law is not on track, it's not on the trail of the government's declared principles, that we now have too many units, too many units of local self-government. They cannot carry out their constitutional and legislative tasks in this way, and this way of increasing and this approach of achieving the possibility of increasing new numbers, we are actually creating one, another major chaos in this, and this is certainly not a good solution. As a result, the SDP Club cannot support such a bill and we feel that instead of such a fragmentation of cities and municipalities, a serious debate about local self-government and then no, it is not the essence of decentralisation that individual territories are fragmented even less. Some areas in even less to decentralise functions and to decentralise activities, and in such a way we can come to the right solution. Anyway, this solution is not good for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35293	Thank you very much. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35294	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The HSP Club will not support the Final Proposal of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, and we believe that this proposal is purely political and pre-election engineering of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we have to make a deal once and stick to the rules and order. If there are criteria in the law which state what criteria must be met in order to form a new municipality. This means, if there is an elaborate where there is justification, if there is the will of the inhabitants of a certain place to become a municipality and there is a positive opinion of the County Assembly, then it is unacceptable for the Government to reject such things to the current territorial structure that is in Croatia. So what do we get now? We have such cases, where amendments have been submitted, let's say an example of the Brodarica municipality, where there is justification, means that they can work on their own, that they can have as much resources as they can afford not only for wages but for them to develop the municipal infrastructure of that area and there is the opinion of the county and it is not accepted. On the other hand, the Government proposes 8 new municipalities, and for most of them there are no elaborates and justifications that they can function in such a way, not only to contribute to themselves but to help citizens, means to Croatian citizens in this area, that they will have better, let's say, infrastructure communally, that they will do something that people want to become municipalities. And therefore, such a proposal without criteria, and on the other hand, the secretary of state is talking about how they stuck to their wishes. So what kind of wishes are these? He only stuck to the government's wishes. Therefore, if we do not work this way to a new, new situation, meaning, new state structure, new territorial division, but such territorial divisions that will enable the development of local, municipalities and cities on the one hand, and on the other hand enable people, Croatian citizens to exercise their rights more directly and simply, to take care of their environment, to take care of their development. Because we ourselves know that there are many municipalities in Croatia that barely raise funds in their budget for the salaries of employees, i.e. those who are officials in that municipality. You know for yourself, let's say in the Croatian Adriatic area that many municipalities sell terrain, construction sites for invaluable purposes only to manage to fill and cover salaries without saying that they do not have any other activities. And it's also an interesting situation for all the municipalities that have been separated from cities or some other municipalities, none of them have asked that they cannot survive as a municipality. In fact, since she was always getting help from the State budget, she was going after someone else, someone else's manger. Therefore, such proposals, which only serve for political engineering, are inadmissible to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. The very fact that we last Wednesday, therefore, voted that the first reading, is immediately the second day of March 24 comes this Final Proposal of the Law. Well, since we spent this paper at all, then we had to argue. If it was an intensities to do the first reading, to consider the criteria, to make the criteria clear and to stick to those criteria, then some things had to be applied to the new territorial structure of the state. And like this, this is embarrassing. So on Wednesday 23rd we're here by 7:00, 8 when we voted. On the 24th day, the government has already sent it. So everything was prepared, and then it settled down as something. This way of working, according to both the assessment and the position of the HSP Club, does not lead to anything, if we have a criterion of sticking to these criteria, or let us not engage in such situations at all, and besides, there is a law which allows local elections to be held and there is no reason to embarrass ourselves, when the Government of Blames already has no reason to embarrass us, and we suggest that the Government withdraws from the procedure of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35295	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35296	Mr. President, it is true that the opinion of the County Assembly is needed but it is not crucial, it is crucial that there are 1/3 of citizens who went to the referendum to express themselves for their municipality or the opinion of the representative body means that they should have the opinion of the County Assembly but if it is negative it does not mean that they will not be allowed if all other conditions are met that people decide to live otherwise, I agree that the state should not stimulate these small municipalities that do not have financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35297	State Secretary Antun Palaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, the initiative to set up municipalities has a variety of people, it comes from a variety of citizens and some of them are unrealistic, so the government didn't even respect them. However, in a concrete case that has been repeated since the first reading I responded to on several occasions, as regards the establishment of the municipality of Lopar, we must say that the initiative was signed by 715 full-time citizens living in the area, that the opinion of the City Council of the City of Rab on 14 December 2004 was also requested by the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorskia on 8 December 2004. The request is not answered, here it has been several months, and the question of how to interpret it, there is no prescribed form of how citizens' signatures must be collected, how the initiative must be formed, but certainly cannot be conducted a referendum on the regional structure, this is the only way for the government to call an advisory referendum that we had in 1996 when we were preparing a full reform in 2007 when the government called a referendum. Secondly, the signatures with a unique number of citizens are relevant to us if there is an initial committee, but the question remains why the city council and the county assembly did not answer. It has been sent to the central state office, although we have answered that, and we believe that the city council must discuss a proposal that comes to it from such a large number of citizens. But in any case, we cannot accept the thesis that obstruction of the initiative in a way that will not prevent citizens from establishing local self-government, which is constitutional law, gentlemen, the right to local self-government is the constitutional right that belongs to citizens. And we are staying with this proposal and we will not withdraw the law because we think that this Law has circled the regional structure of the Republic of Croatia, that it is within the framework of European standards and, as it has already been pointed out many times, the project of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia is a very successful project, those places that were not before the seat of the municipalities when there were 110 municipalities but now this development has led to huge progress in the municipal infrastructure, in meeting the needs of citizens, thereby implementing the European Charter of Local Self-Government to bring the authorities closer to the citizens who are closest to them. Therefore, we do not believe that a condition can be set for the adoption of the Law, a positive opinion, a city or a council or a county assembly, especially if it is not responsible for the initiative by 4 months, it wants to obstruct the process of forming new units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35299	Thank you, too. Four corrections to incorrect allegations, first respected representative Zdenko Antešić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35300	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State has already made the same lie several times, and it consists in the following, that the city council of the city of Rab regarding Lopar's initiative was not manifest. That's not true, the truth is next. On 28 January this year, the City Council of Rab sent a request to the Central State Office to clarify the previous issue because from the day the citizens' initiative was completed, so when these 700 and so many lists were collected, as was said, until the day that the procedure had been put into operation for more than 20 months, and the central state office had not accepted at all to respond to the city of Rab or ignored the city of Rab in general until the day of today and nevertheless put it in the legal procedure, without the obtained opinion of the city of Rab and without the County's opinions, which is true. Here if you want to make your own areas, then say it like that and don't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35301	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35302	It is not true that Mr. Secretary of State that in this particular case around Lopara, he wants to obstruct the will of the citizens that he said by referring to the city council of Rab. No, it's true that the government is obstructing the will of the citizens, and it is with its political volunteerism because those who have fulfilled all these conditions that you have listed, and that they have the support of the city council, that they have the support of the county assembly you have not approved to stand out, I was saying for the last time that I am not for any scrawny but the fact that you have different criteria according to the political criteria, not as regards legal assumptions that the will of the citizens is being fulfilled, because by law, my colleague will say, Ingrid something, so to those who have met the conditions they did not get, and those who did not get, so, by God, by the volunteerism of the Government politically.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35303	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35304	So it is incorrect that the Secretary of State can only call a advisory referendum because it can be done by the representative body of the local self-government unit based on Article 24. The law on regional, local regional self-government, and that is, if 20% of eligible voters so can and could always be called here for an advisory referendum on the end of the unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35305	And the fourth correction, the respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35306	It is incorrect that the Secretary of State says that the Government will not allow obstruction, the Government is currently conducting obstruction because it does not allow exactly, and based on everything that you have called for, and on the basis of the Law and the European Charter on Local Self-Government Units, you do not allow citizens an obvious example is Zaton. The village of Zaton, where all the conditions have been met, according to his colleague Jurjevic, you allow some who have failed to meet the legal requirements, and you do not allow those who have met the legal requirements, so what are the criteria, so the ways of the Lord and the Government of Croatia are unfathomable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35307	On behalf of the HSLS Club LS, DC's esteemed representative Frano Piploić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35308	Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The DC and HSLS Club gives full support to this final proposal of the Law on County, City and City Areas in the Republic of Croatia. We don't think there are any grades here, that this is some kind of political game of the Croatian government. This is a real expression of the needs of citizens. No one here, this is already the second debate has presented any argument that the Croatian government, namely that officials of the Croatian government, officials of the Croatian government went on the ground and asked citizens to make some new crumbling of local administrations and self-government. I mean, no one's here yet... Therefore, with such an assessment, we cannot agree and that is one legitimate will of the citizens. We also disagree with these latents that the new municipalities will not survive financially. If we want to change this criterion, I call on you to apply this criterion to all municipalities in Croatia, so you will actually see that a large number of municipalities could not survive financially if it were not solidarity, that it was not the support given by the Croatian Government, that it was not the support given by the counties etc. And we clearly need to take into account the revenue made in the local community. I'll be very brief, I'll just say a few more certificates in terms of what I've brought here. For example, the municipality of the new municipality of Podvinje in Slavonski Brod, the municipalities, or local board of Podvinje, has already submitted a number of requests six times to enable that part of the town of Slavonski Brod to have an autonomous lifestyle, to try to solve their own problems, because other problems do not want to solve them. In 1984, Podvinje entered the forces of the town of Slavonski Brod through the nationalisation of civil land in the local community of Podvinje. The then assembly of the Slavonski Brod municipality is making a decision to expand the borders of the city in the Podvinj area. In the course of Yugoslavia, the underlings rebelled against such a decision, so they protested at the citizens' assembly, even sent a delegation here to the Croatian Parliament then to Dr Josip Zmajic. But then politics did not allow them to organize themselves as they wanted and will. Only in 1985 did they file a lawsuit to the Constitutional Court of the then state and that didn't work. Thus, in the 1990s there was denationalisation of land, at the time there was a community of Podvinje, however, there was no return to the beginning of Podivnje to return to where it was 10 years and over. There has never been a referendum or petition of citizens or a assembly of citizens to make such a decision. I set this example as an eclectic example that the Croatian government cannot now be accused of, for example, the citizens in this area of Slavonski Brod wanted what they were looking for and what the Croatian government had agreed to, confirmed their will, if the current mayor had failed to respond to their demands for three years, so it is not the turn for the Croatian Government to disobey the request of its citizens. We therefore give full support to what the Croatian government is doing and we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35309	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his own special style at the border of scientific approach, Kolega Piploić presented several incorrect allegations and said that in his performance we presented in the style of lamentation and that we did not make any argument against the initiative to establish the municipality of Lopar. That's not true. The truth is, we've made the argument that no legal procedure is respected, and that's the only argument there is no other argument. We are not talking about the legitimate initiative of citizens to set up their own municipality, but about the need to comply with the legal procedure, especially with the Government and the Central Office of the State Administration, which is in charge of implementing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35311	A colleague, Antešić, I have not heard that MP Piplovic spoke about the municipality of Lopar, spoke about the municipality of Podvnija. You may indirectly conclude that it is, but it's fine. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35312	Well, Mr. Puplić obviously didn't understand what we were saying on behalf of the HSP Club. Because he said the government followed the criteria. What government adhered to the criteria? When proposing new eight municipalities, for which there are no elaborates and justifications or legal initiatives within the meaning of a valid law that they can become municipalities. And on the other hand, for municipalities like the Broderica municipality there's everything and then it's rejected. So what are the criteria? Volunteerism is it, it's not criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35313	Thank you. State Secretary Antun Palaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has carefully assessed all initiatives. And in the light of this Law, we cited an initiative for the establishment of the municipality of Zaton, because that municipality would have 570 inhabitants. That seemed too small for us. Because we can't accept the thesis that whoever has money has the right to local self-government, and other municipalities that count two or three thousand people would not have the right because someone thinks they might not have financial resources. The right to local self-government belongs to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And it is the state that will take care of the even development of the entire Republic of Croatia. And exactly the establishment of local self-government units in these areas is considered one of the links to the development of an area that is not sufficiently developed. As far as accusing me of untrueness, I must say this. The central state office responded to the city of Rab, I signed the opinion, the opinion is as I said, that the city of Rab is obliged to consider the citizens' initiative and it went away, I don't know where it came from, whether it got stuck in the mail anywhere, but we answered. I've taken disciplinary action against officers who haven't responded in time. And with regard to the referendum, the Law on the Referendum is a law that speaks of the possibility of calling an advisory referendum. The Law on Local Self-Government speaks of citizen participation, decision-making on matters of local importance and possible participation in the referendum. But the regional structure of the Republic of Croatia is not a matter of local importance and cannot be decided by a representative body, or citizens, but rather a job... To the Croatian Parliament and to those who are authorized to propose laws. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35315	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35316	Mr. Secretary of State has made one mistake again. It is not true that the Central State Office has answered the city of Rab's question about the clarification of the previous issue. I just don't understand it. I'm the mayor of the city of Rab, and I went through the city of Rab's mail yesterday. Or maybe, do you even know where Rab City is? Or maybe you referred to some wrong address? Or would you like to present here a copy of that memo that you answered to the city of Rab?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35317	Okay. ...contrasisted claims. You claim to be a respected representative one, State Secretary the other, he says the secretary of state is that he disciplined an officer or officials who did not respond in due time. Put the papers on the table, put the papers on the MPs to see what's responsible, whether it's responsible and how it's responsible. It's the only way to be apart from verbal conflict yes, well. Get it ready. Let's move on to the debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35318	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives! I was informed earlier that there are 549 municipalities in Croatia, which are the municipalities of what cities. This number should be added to 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb and these 9 new municipalities, so we will have a total of 579 units of local self-government. For such a small country as Croatia probably many will agree too. At 4.3 million inhabitants, on these 56,000 square miles of 31 thousand square miles of sea. This apparatus, as Mr Kovacevic used to say, often becomes his own purpose. I agree with those who say that in these small municipalities some are not able to be financed in a sufficient number of cases. On the other hand, I would also like to say that this reform of local self-government that took place in the Republic of Croatia in 1993 was indeed radical, so I would dare say in a segment and brave. It was time for the war, so it wanted to centralize the state I've always been against and I have. It was likely at that time that the congregation, the municipalities of the 1970 ’ s, was about to be weakened. For example, the assembly and municipalities were then elected judges, elected chief of police, head of finance, head of national defence, head of cadastre, head of territorial defense. They were fully involved in inspection activities, administrative procedures that were in their jurisdiction, etc. After 1993, the situation changes, moves to its extremes so that today we have a situation that our mayors, that our mayors can't even influence the behaviour of the matriarch. Simply, such a situation is absurd and needs to be changed sooner. On the other hand, I dare say that exactly the period under the 1974 Constitution, that period of the largest Croatian decentralisation was certainly the most prospective period of the Republic of Croatia in one economic, social and any other prosperity. The country has never evolved faster than during that period of its largest decentralisation. After that, or during those 1990s, there is a war, a struggle for naked survival, centralised. I will never defend centralization, and even in those years, even though someone can say the basis of it is a war funded, refugees, the creation of an army, the recovery of the banking system, etc. In 1993 we come to a new establishment of local self-government, I said countys along the diocese borders and the City of Zagreb as the capital of the Republic of Croatia. The former congregations of municipalities or their headquarters become cities and their parishes de facto are thus becoming municipalities in a large number of cases. I agree with the secretary of state, he's not here when he notices that some of the neighborhoods and because of such a structure have been rebirthed, some of them. They began to take care of themselves, they began to withdraw capital, they started to take care of themselves in a closer way or a more complete way about the needs of citizens, etc. But what's he saying? This says that decentralisation is useful for the Republic of Croatia and that as soon as possible in fiscal and not only this territorial form, and not that we have a situation for the central government to kill some 85% at this time, of all incomes generated in the territory of the Republic of Croatia City of Zagreb with 800 thousand inhabitants of about 5.5%, a municipality of about 8%, until the county's 20 at this time achieve even 2% of these fiscal assets. I dare say they're absolutely in the worst situation right now in our county. For example, the budget of the County of Istria, there is Mr. Perusko Councilor, this year 200 million kuna, which is the county that has the highest income per capita after Zagreb. On the other hand, the City of Pula, which I am pleased to have, has a budget of about 350 million kuna somewhere. Countys don't have a single square meter of agricultural, forest, building land at this hour, so on. tourist land. Whether the County of Istria will somehow come into co-owned by part of these properties on Brijuni and the Riviera remains to be seen. But it doesn't matter now. It is important that some small municipalities since they were alone, it should be acknowledged, so after 1993 they existed as local communities or local committees simply flourished. One Gračice, one Cerovlje, one Saint Peter in the forest, one Schmidt, one Brtonigla, I don't know Novigrad, Matulji. For example, some like one Gračis, Cerovlja in 1993 did not have a single metre of water installations in that space. They've been certified today in 99% of the cases. It should also be acknowledged that this concern for these communities from these small centers simply in some cases rebirthed those parts. But what's the point of this law now. I dare say that because of the party's needs and soon, so in a month and a half, the election will be joined by a brand-new maybe unnecessary alchemy. It's forming again, I said before, nine new municipalities. As for those in Istria... There's no doubt about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the meaning of Funtane, Tar Vabrige IDS will absolutely support them. Not because, as one columnist, I don't know in "The Morning List" or "The Evening List" has objected that the IDS supports it because of the party's funding. No, because you simply can't go against the will of the citizens and then into the elections. If you were against such a will, then clearly you can't count on anything in the election. And these thresholds, this logic also clearly points to IDS to support this legislative proposal, above all, because this is about the formation of Tar Vabriga and Funtana municipalities. But also, we will support all opposition amendments. There is no dilemma on the other hand whether these two means small environments, these two small new municipalities, will be able to exist. It will. Why? For example, Tar Vabriga has a million 426 thousand 750 overnight stays. It is 8.46% of all Istrian nights, which means 4% of Croatian nights. On the other hand, Funtana has a million 342 thousand overnight stays, which is 7.95% of Istrian nights or 3.5% of Croatian nights. So, Tar Vabriga with some thousands and 200, thousands and 300 inhabitants clearly will be able to develop and exist with these revenues. There is no doubt that one Funtana with 700 inhabitants will also be able to exist. 700 inhabitants. But what's happening to you? We will defacto respected gentlemen get to so-called. If we turn down the population, the children, etc., who can't vote, we have 500 people on the list, there will be 70, 80, maybe 90 people. It is the same as if there were 100,000 people on the lists in the city of Zagreb. And now if there's logic, and we're saying that Funtana is forming as a community, I don't see why that little municipality, I guess because, which the Secretary of State mentioned with 570 residents couldn't be formed, existed if this wasn't an alchemy and engineering because in Istria we have a municipality of 390 inhabitants or even less maybe today, maybe even less, 380 and some residents. Let's say one Lannister. Thus, it also makes it clear what the central government’s approach to the formation of the municipality is. As far as the law is concerned, the Proposer will not listen to reasonable proposals that came from a bench of MPs. For example. Why the bazgals now move to Pazin, I agree, and here is the explanation. They wanted it in the '90s, there's no doubt about it, but since 2002 we have new circumstances, let's say that this Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area is in force, and by the basis of this Act, the Gračis municipality or entrepreneurs in that municipality are paying a profit tax at 15% and not as in Pazin at 20%, which means they seem to be in harm's way. Citizens through income tax form have the right to return in one Bazgalji or in Gračik Circa 2000 kuna per tax application and do not have in the city of Pazin. So one family where a husband works, a woman directly you now damage by 4,000 kuna with this bill. Now gentlemen ask if these men are to be deprived of those 4,000 kunas. Here, that's why I'm saying that this is a political alchemy to a large extent and to the community, and to the harm of the citizens, and to the harm of reason, and to the harm of logic, so eventually it will happen, and I would also like to do so at the expense of the legislator himself. Equally, a few more moments. Why, for example, and I talked about it last time, and not some people get it, for example. one settlement Serbian field that existed for several centuries in that now name change to the Croatian field. It's just like when we tried it out there somewhere in '98, 99. A white monastery to be crossed into the White Manastir. The last time I said it, it won't change anything in these rooms, so I don't think someone's gonna let Cheve Ningen draw new divisions and cards in the territory of the Republic of Croatia again. I absolutely agree that what happened in Plaška a few weeks ago is unacceptable, I'm talking about these street changes, what's there, I don't know that local government has also done a kind of provocation. But what this law regulates is simply higher than a single democratic standard that is pursued by this country, absolutely, absolutely unnecessary. However, I, perhaps the biggest problem coming from Istria, see in this Law the fact that you do not want in those bilingual environments, speak again in Istria, the names of the settlements written in Croatian and Italian. And yet I still don't understand why this stubbornness, probably that in some other environments the names wouldn't be written on Cheryl. However, when I speak of Istria, gentlemen, the constitutional law obliges you to do so, the whole set of so on. minority laws, to which you are bound by international conventions, whether the Republic of Croatia directly signed them with the neighbouring state or that it took them over from the former state as its successor. And then we have a situation, today, I don't know in Italy etc., where it is claimed, and this right government that rights are slowing down in Croatia, let's say the Italian minority, which I absolutely claim is constructed, tense and incorrect information, but we simply don't need it, we simply don't need it. I am also pleased that yesterday, for example, Prodi, he received the recognition of the honourary citizens of Istria County, but the day before that in a number of places in Istria, Italian names.... on those boards which is nothing but a bold provocation which apparently wants to destabilise opportunities not only down but across the Republic of Croatia at this time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's think of these mineminings, etc. It has not been in the last five years and what is happening in this security aspect in these last few months should be largely concerned by the government and certainly the perpetrators of such behaviour should get an institutional response, not to say what it must be like. It's just that kind of behavior is inadmissible. I will once again say this Law is a political article, and instead of continuing to chop up Croatian municipalities let's try to regionalise Croatia, let's try to decentralisation Croatia. If we do that, we'll relieve the government, if we do it to a large extent, we'll help the country. All in all, we have to say, before as the IDS Club supports this bill for Tarvabriga and Funtana, if we don't, we can't clearly vote in these areas, but I'm also convinced we'll get elections in Vrsar and Poreč and Tarvabriga and Funtana. As regards transitional and final provisions, they shall be logical, with the exception of Article 36(1), where a period of 6 months is referred to. Gentlemen, all that here, this division of assets is proposed in six months is not possible to implement. Why? I see the blind light now because in the 4th month because of the election we lost, the 5th election we lose, the repeated elections we'll have somewhere, then the formation of these chieftains etc., the mayor means to me in this period of 6 months, and the municipalities will be established at the time of adoption of this Law means a period of 4 months is lost, so in two months after that you can't carry out the division of property and I ask you to give these new structures more time. That deadline shall be 12 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35319	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35320	Thank you very much Mr. President, Mr. Cain said and I am correcting this : "For the sake of party interests, access to chemistry, or the amendment of the Law to community damage.". This is incorrect because since 1997 the Law has been amended and complemented 16 times and it is not at the expense of the community, we all know that the closer the government to the citizens is that it is a greater and better possibility for citizens to solve their current and life problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35321	Second correction, honourable representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35322	Mr. Cain argued that if we don't support this law that we can't go to elections, that's incorrect. There's a valuable law that allows you to go to elections. He also said twice that the final bill envisioned the establishment of nine new municipalities, if he had read, he would have seen that in 8, it was in the first reading of 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35323	Thank you. I'm reporting that at 10:36, it's time for a ten-minute debate. Honorable representative of Ante Marco, on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35324	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, when discussing the final draft law on areas of county, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia or the whole series, a set of legal issues related to local self-government. Of course, it is unquestionably brought into the context of a time when it is discussed, and always this fact is in some way involved in a legal solution because, of course, the choice of the time when it is discussed and when it is passed, for certain legal solutions which are unquestionably due to the reason that the adoption leaves itself doubt, a different debate, and then those things that can be realistically interpreted as correct and as a certain step on one side are questioned while other things in the same way are seen in the same way. Therefore, the practice of adopting such legal solutions immediately before the local elections is evident as being not good. It is not good simply because citizens do not take it seriously enough, and in any case most citizens do not see it for their benefit because it is absolute, and this is often heard from this pay phone that absolutely this is the result of certain political aspirations, initiatives, politicisation and in some way that this is an attempt of engineering that is intended to affect a determined electoral body at the time or during the upcoming local elections. On behalf of the HSS Club, I would like to return to the scale of things, to the content of this Law, and I would say in principle that this issue is one of the most sensitive, and for the citizens the most important issue because local self-government in nature solves 80% of all of the problems our citizens have in their local, local units. It is good to remind ourselves of certain, certain postulates or principles already implemented in practice which are also contained in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which are in fact the content of these local challenges which can in some ways be expressed through 6 forms of sovereignty that local self-government has. This very sovereignty of local self-government is actually the issue. It doesn't matter if we start another 10 municipalities, or if we start 50 municipalities, or if we stop 100 of them. This is not at all a measure from which we view the seriousness of the problem, the attitude towards the citizens, and whether citizens will perceive the government's attitude towards them positively or negatively. Meritum is a problem whether we will respond to what the content of local self-government is. Which is the original sovereignty of local self-government. And have we found the best relationship between intermediaries, between the state and citizens in this period of an independent Croatian state. But local self-government is an unapproachable sort of mediator. According to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, the sovereignty of local self-government, these 6 sovereigntys. The first is sovereignty of human sovereignty. It provides municipalities, cities with the right to choose and to carry out selection within the staffing. The second is organisational sovereignty, and it includes the right to its own administrative organisation. The third is the sovereignty of planning. A very important sovereignty that says that to municipalities, cities are allowed to make plans with their own responsibility based on higher, higher legal order assigned to them. Here in, we are now facing the first problem and challenge under our positive legislation. The truth units of local self-government bring and finance plans. However, the plans of the higher order and the legal constraints of the same municipality do not have any jurisdiction, they do not have the right to participate in the possible process adopted within the agreed plans whether those spatial plans of the municipality, detailed plans and so on. So the local self-government's ingenuity was cut off at the stage of implementation and control of behaviour in the context of spatial planning. This is the first derogation from the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Legislative sovereignty is very clear. It contains the right to adopt local statutes, regulations governing relations within local self-government. Financial sovereignty is also not fully precise in Croatia, so it is not in line with what I say throughout practice in the European Union. Of course, I must refer to this immediately and this legislative proposal that the HSS Club has sent and will be believed right after this point, which is that we have some illogicalness in action. I don't want to, Mr. Secretary of State doesn't have a name for it, but the illogicality consists of the fact that the small municipalities of up to 3,000 residents have no right, right, the possibility of headship. The headship is gentlemen if he's not here then we've given the municipal council the right to have legislative and executive power. The Turks have a name for it. I won't mention him. I think it's a illogicality that's absolutely unfounded. In Italy you have a whole series of small municipalities, but you don't have any without a headship. You don't have one without a head. Nobody's saying that someone's not going to choose headship as a possibility. He's entitled to it. But taking away the right of headship I don't think it is, that it is questionable also from the constitutional and legal aspect. The sixth sovereignty that units of local self-government must have is tax sovereignty. Also very questionable, very dubious and which is not fully defined, which we have not fully defined. I think this is, these six forms of sovereignty that these are the reasons for a very serious debate, that these are the starting points for reforming the entire system of local self-government and that in nature our citizens want to get an answer to what they're interested in. And that's what the community function is and what the municipalities are supposed to do? The main function of the municipality is to take care of the basic infrastructure in, in its area. The second is that it deals with services, public transport services, culture, bathing sites, sports, recreation. The third is social equality. To protect social functions, integrate minorities. It enables participation in public life, promotes social peace. The function of designing and planning the future is also a very important function. Function of maintaining order through fire, fire department, local police, system of tip-offs and decommissioning, environmental protection, home office. These are the most important functions of local self-government clearly with the stabilisation of the system, which is the role of the social mediator between citizens and the state. These are the most valuable and most important tasks that citizens expect from this body, from this Parliament to be dealt with by citizens, not themselves. At the time of the government, the government's final proposal, where the government has set itself for 8 municipalities and said it represents the will of citizens, that it is their legitimate right. It's absolutely legitimate, but it's not all right. But it's part of the right that the government felt should recognize the right until some others had it right. The question of criteria is therefore raised. The criteria and normisation of certain positions are much more important than an explanation of whether a city, some county has given positive or negative consent. If the will of the citizens is unquestionable. If she's the leader, then she has to be set up like that. But metric. So not having criteria is something of course you can't without criteria we can't reach consensus. Because one side thinks the other way around. The criteria are something to reconcile. But it also needs to give citizens very clear directions in which direction it is moving all together. And what's the interest and what's the goal. Is the aim of establishing these eight municipalities really to satisfy legitimate and legal rights to get their own municipality or their own city? Or it's to try a certain discretionary decision to give to one another not to. Of course the doubt will remain as long as we do not establish a system in which life in every municipality and city will be better quality services, and the attitude towards a citizen will be better. Relations with the citizen and within the framework of the intervention of units of local self-government that must intercede between central government and citizens. Because a citizen often doesn't get a chance to be welcome in a local self-government unit sometimes. And let alone the central state government. Therefore, citizens' trust is only returned in a way that they can be sure through credibility of what we bring through legal solutions. And through his own life to make sure that what he's asking for is that he can get the slightest hand so he can hear that he can talk to someone, that he can make someone sick. Therefore, this very complex and demanding job. It is not good to bring in such a pre-election time because it also burdens good content and let alone worse. Such serious legal proposals are not good to work towards discretionary positions. I think it is a good idea to make such big interventions and great legislative proposals concerning all citizens of the Republic of Croatia as a consensus. And with the participation and consent of all parliamentary parties because it will absolutely create one better way of communicating between citizens and this Croatian High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35325	Thank you. There's been a debate over clubs. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35326	Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. We see them today's proposal that the promoter has remained persistent in dividing the Vinodol Municipality into two municipalities. It remains persistent despite the fact that local self-government said no. Despite the fact that regional self-government said no. Despite the fact that no debate has been held with the Union of Cities and municipalities, and if a State Secretary has just been called upon by the European Charter of Local Self-Government. It is proposed to divide one historical territorial, one cultural unit that has existed for centuries and that we should all be proud of. You only look at colleagues and colleagues how and how they propose to divide these municipalities. Last week we had on our benches on page 28. Look at the completely confused villages, so the settlements that belonged to one place were in another municipality in the wrong municipality. Now the proposer has noticed this harsh mistake correcting it in a very simple way. He simply dropped out of the law 40 such settlements, left only the places of Brigitte, Grizhane, Tribalj, Drvenik. Laws have also been cast out by segregators that have been worth living in the area for centuries. These grassroots are older than most European countries. We throw them out of the law shamelessly. Why are we kicking out of this law, because the proposer didn't have time in a few days to set up proper settlements under one, second, third or fourth place. That's more than incorrect. I spoke last week and a series of gaps especially in connection with the community from which I came. And maybe it would be good if I didn't repeat it needlessly because it seems to me that the proposer has firmly decided to push this proposal through with the parliamentary majority no matter how pointless it may be. But allow me colleagues and colleagues to at least go back 717 years and read you a few sentences from the Vinodol Code, so maybe some of us are a little ashamed of what we're doing. It's standing like this. "In the name of God's summer of 1288. Vinodolian people want to preserve in full those good old laws that their ancestors have always kept but not arranged. They gathered together both church and worldly people, and took seriously counseling and choosing from every city of Vinodol not all older than those they knew to remember better the law of their fathers and those of whom they obeyed from their grandfathers." I read this to see that for over 700 years there were clear criteria for selecting those who needed to solve problems on the ground. Those who knew what knowledge could solve something, look at our proposal today. He came past the consent of those who chose you. He came from the field of those who put this proposal on the party line to come to our bench today. Is something going to get rid of these colleagues and colleagues I think you're aware that you don't. We're not going to solve this just because instead of one of the commissioners from now on, we're going to have two instead of one headship now. Instead of one official vehicle, we will now have two or more. That's not the answer. My Vinodol hasn't done that in 50 years. He's a shamodol. First abandoned from 45 to 90, virtually all forms of agricultural production were shut down, and then in the last 15 years, what was left of the rest of the economy in the area. My Vinodolites are home today without a job and we can't think of anything better to help them than to create two municipalities. They will not be better off than a few of those who hope that this new division of Vinodol will lead to pleasant political chairs. They will certainly be better off, but that is not the solution for our citizens or the citizens of Vinodol. Out of one economically not too powerful municipality, we're working two miniature municipalities, we're going to have two miniature budgets. And I called it the other day and here I will repeat not by political miniature but by literally cartooning on the topic of local self-government. I'm sorry to have to say. But unfortunately, that's the way it is. Let me go back to the Vinodol Code one more time. And in the year 1288 and to realize that already at that time in that law it was clear and this is especially so to read from this law, where competent authorities do not have the right to impose their will on the citizens of Vinodol. Namely this law, the Vinodol Law protected them from the will of superior authorities. Article 39 states that for all acts of law, unlisted criminal acts, the authority may impose a penalty of no more than 6 lb. So it was limited, not to exaggerate, not to destroy life in that space. The Vinodol law knows neither the older means of proof of God's judgment nor the newer means of proof of torture that was once a regular means of reckoning with those who did not think as power in medieval Europe. The Vinodol law further emphasizes the full equality of all inhabitants, even shepherds and oracles and other people if they are good voices living outside the city. My colleagues and colleagues in this way, I respect your attitude, I fully respect it, but let me say what I think. I think we've taken a few steps back. I think our colleagues, 717 years ago, were in European relations far ahead of other Europeans than we are today. Thanks a lot, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35327	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35328	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the state administration. So I am supporting, as I said last time, I am supporting the amendment and supplementation of the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas, because you see we have a state for 15 years, we have created a system, namely the establishment of a local self-government that is still in the process of profiling and I see no reason to prevent the people's will. Support to units of local self-government and to the establishment of these 9 municipalities and respect for the requirements of local committees, i.e. settlements for changes, i.e. for attachment and separation is not only for decentralisation, democratisation but for therefore, autonomy of capital and head, for local initiative, for home smartness and domestic human potential. Ladies and gentlemen, all the new municipalities proposed have all the developmental, organisational, economic and most important financial assumptions to be a very successful unit of local self-government. In addition, why not allow people to decide their own fate, why cut them off, why choose instead, why hold them back in their initiatives, why support slowness and irrationality in making decisions, why not bring the service of citizens closer, why not enable the development of entrepreneurship and thus increase unemployment? And I'm glad I supported the initiative in April last year, for example. As far as my unit is concerned, the establishment of Tar Vabriga and Funtan municipalities as I support the demands of local committees for change, i.e. the accession of new municipalities where they belong forever. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, by respecting the petition of citizens, of a kind of referendum, so the most direct form of citizens' decision-making, I think we actually respect the real one, we become a real mediator to the people. So the mediator between the government and the people for which we were elected, certainly in that sense, although he is likable, does not stand the observation of Mr. Stazic about Aleksandr Karadjordjevic, who quoted it, that he was not a bond between the king and the people. After all, if you want in all transition countries, Croatia has only 5 and a half% of smaller than a thousand municipalities, e.g. Hungary has 55%, the Czech Republic 80%, and we must not forget that in January 2000, green light was given, then the coalition government for the establishment of several municipalities, Kamana, Bilica, Kolan, Fažana, Pribislavec. And therefore, I will not talk about projects for decentralisation of public administration that are suddenly simply interrupted, but I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that before us, a bill that respects the collective requirement of citizens is directed towards the highest legislative authority. By voting, by voting for not only fulfilling our commitment to citizens, we are proving that self-government with its means, powers and other resources has finally come close to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35329	Thank you. We have four corrections. First is Mr. Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In his speech, Honorable counterpart Cervar told the truth that we are alluding to prevent initiatives, namely citizens from establishing units of local self-government. That's not true. We absolutely support citizens, we support them, it's their legitimate right. However, it is true that the establishment of new units of local self-government is described to the members of the law and that law should be respected. That's all it's about. So it cannot happen, that is to say, that it is the one who is obliged to comply with the law, which is the central office of the state administration and the government is giving in the legal procedure an initiative that is illegal. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35331	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35332	The correction refers to the same claim by counterpart Cervara who said "I see no reason to prevent the will of citizens and their initiatives etc." petitions referring to those who are against this Government proposal. It's an incorrect assumption that we who do not support this Government proposal are opposed to the volunteerism of the government which allows one and the other not. And one of them wrote petitions and the other one wrote petitions. And some have city councils and county permits and others don't. And you see wonders, what they do not have, and they are granted by the government. ... That's what this is about. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's not us against the will of the citizens, it's the government. It looks like so many municipalities to choose from. If each month were a choice, there would be 3,000 municipalities in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35333	It should not even be emphasized that this is a statement of your opinion contrary to what was said before. But as we do it all the time, then we'll keep going the same way. Mr. Anton Perushko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cervar who said, "I am glad that in April of last year I supported the establishment of the Tar Vabriga municipality." That's incorrect. In April of last year, counterpart Cervar supported the government's position, which was then against the establishment of the municipality. I was at the SDP Club at the time defending the Tar Vabriga municipality project because it had all the legal elements prescribed. If that's true, I've given myself a hard time, so I spilled a little phonogram from last April's session when my colleague Lesar asked Mr. Cervar a question, say specifically whether you are in favour or against Tar Vabriga Municipality, and then Col. Cervar said that he supports the government's position. So this quote is incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35335	I made an explanation about that last time I said that Mrs. Jadranka Katarinčić-Skrlj had submitted that request, which was not accepted by the government's majority in the previous elections. And then you took that same proposal from Mrs. Jadranka when you were no longer in power. That's the truth, and I'm asking you to have the same merits and don't go back a few months but two years, right? Thank you very much. Also correcting an incorrect quote as the fourth, Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with Mr. Cervar when he says that the position of local committees and people in these settlements should be respected, I am talking about settlements that will now become according to this proposal and new municipalities. However, I cannot agree that in all cases it will be better in these new municipalities. It would be better for gentlemen from the current position, so HDZ, HSU and others, if the IDS' proposal to the Reimbursement Act was accepted, then at least the pensioners would be in a better position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35337	There was also no correction but the start of the debate on pensioners. Drastic exceptions don't make, at least let it be about what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35338	But that would be better safe. I'm sure it'd be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35339	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Ponzimir Mršić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35340	Dear Vice President, honourable representatives of the Office of State Administration. This law that came so quickly to the second reading, although there were a lot of reasons to accept the SDP's request that the law go to first reading for the first time, and then we would have completely different gauges and we could discuss it, we wouldn't be in such a hurry. But, well, here is the end of our initiative, so this law goes to another reading, and that it can be conducted at the same session as it is now being held, only it couldn't be accepted that it was proposed by the SDP, but it had to be seen at the end when there were very many changes. So this law has two or three things to talk about. One is the establishment of really new municipalities where we have municipalities where all procedures have been carried out and for which none of us here in the SDP, and I personally have nothing against being set up. Therefore, if all procedures are carried out, there is no reason for these municipalities not to be established. They have other municipalities for which all procedures have not been implemented and are being established, see here we have observations. That's where we have our objections because we believe that for everyone, even for the government, the same laws apply, right? And thirdly, we have a community where all procedures have been carried out, where everything is fine, but the government prevents these municipalities from being founded and ultimately we have what is not currently a pragmatic pre-election establishment of new municipalities. We have what will be forever or for some time, and these are the provisions of the laws that will determine in the future how the boundaries of the units of local self-government can be exceeded. As far as new municipalities are concerned, the question is indeed where is the limit of initiative or citizens' initiative. To lead the matter to absurdity, I'm asking if it's possible in the future that a citizen may have his own community. Is it really possible for a citizen to buy enough land, buy settlements, move settlements, or unfortunately people to die in these settlements, have enough fiscal capacity, maybe have a large salary, maybe have a company in that local board and a settlement and to appear in front of the Parliament and ask for the establishment of a new municipality? Is it really possible for a citizen to have his own municipality, or will we set a limit to the municipality's 570 inhabitants, as 571 people do, as the Government puts it in this bill. Because the government as an argument why Zaton doesn't have the establishment of municipalities is a procedure and citizens have the right to the municipality is that he has 570 inhabitants. I wonder if there are 571 residents, if Zaton would be a municipality or if he must have 828 residents like the Municipality of Funtana. So is Zaton the moment he has 828 residents will have the right to be a municipality? Because according to this bill, that's how it works out. If we allow citizens the initiative that counterpart Cervar was talking about, then we must enable all citizens to do so. Then we have to tell all the citizens if you've met that, and you'll have a community, but not only when the government likes it, and not only does it define the criteria when she thinks she should be the population number, so somewhere she needs consent, so somewhere she doesn't need consent, so somewhere she shuts up the city, somewhere she shuts up the government. That's what this is about. All laws against all citizens must be equal. This law applies, in the adoption of new municipalities, it certainly is not. And I can't agree with the thesis that petition is about and some kind of referendum statement. Gentlemen, there is a huge difference between petition and referendum. My colleague Lugarić and I have submitted an amendment to this law and we are really looking for the following. That the local self-government units will be held in each future termination of the referendums. The advisory referendums in the area of units of local self-government that overlaps, as it is unacceptable for part of Rab, part of Slavonski Brod, to be split apart without the citizens of Rab, the citizens of Slavonski Brod, to say nothing about it by the representative bodies elected by these citizens. Which these citizens chose in Rab and Slavonski Brod. Therefore, if a third of citizens are asked for an authorised applicant, then I think that one third of citizens can be sufficiently qualified to call an advisory referendum, so let all citizens in the field of a single unit of local self-government say what they think about it. But you see here, equally, double criteria are created, on the one hand, in order to call a referendum, you need to have a 20% voter demand, and in order to establish a local self-government unit, you need to have a third of the citizens. It turns out that some of the municipalities can form citizens from 0 to 18, because they are citizens of gentlemen. So no adult citizen has to sign a request for the establishment of a municipality, and it will be established unlike the referendum where we have, where 20% of taxpayers have to pass such a law. And here's my colleague, Lugaric, and I think, so really ok. Let it be one third of the voters, but that the future establishment of municipalities and cities must be demonstrated by the representative body of local self-government units and must necessarily be convened by an advisory referendum. Because I'm asking myself now, and so is your question. Do these demands that these authorized initiatives that are being discussed here, whether those who have proposed the establishment of municipalities, whether those who have signed to propose these new municipalities know what the municipalities are? Those who are revenue, who are expenditures, what are the powers of the municipalities, what they will gain from the municipality. They know that, too. Or we had what was in the material, you all got a letter from the mayor of Slavonski Brod about what the citizens there asked, and they obviously didn't ask if you wanted to be a municipality. They asked something else entirely. They asked them a question every citizen would say yes to. Therefore, the question arises which is, therefore, the opinion of the citizen? For Article 31 The bill's proposal says that the proposings are obliged to obtain citizens' opinion. What does that mean? What does it mean if the citizens say no? What is said in the area of change. Whether only in the area of the settlement or in the area of the unit of local self-government. So, this law, let's let these eight municipalities go, obviously it will pass, but let's at least fix the law in this section that speaks for the future. Let's set some criteria here, let's tell everyone what these are criteria for setting up municipalities in the future. I ask the question of how one municipality will cross from one county to another county because this law does not prescribe it. This Law does not give such a possibility? What about the seats changes, say, county? What about joining two counties? Is that not possible? Why is that supposed to be impossible? So these are all the questions that this Law needs to answer, and it is certainly a thorn in that part of the political will of the ruling majority about who it will give the possibility to have a municipality, to whom it will not give. But I think we should have enough will to fix in this second part of what will be in the future. So, who are the authorised promoters, which is the opinion of the citizens, whether advisory referendums are convened and, forgive me, Article 32 should certainly be reformed in a way that no one, as counterpart Cervar said, can be between citizens and this legislative body, and according to Article 2 here is the Government. Because the government takes the right to give prior consent. If there's no prior consent, there's no initiative. Therefore, if we want there to be no one between us and the citizens, then we need to put that Government, as the City Council gives, as the County Assembly gives, can give its opinion. And the Parliament, citizens and MPs must have the right to the citizens' initiative as we have authorized them, and we must have the right and the possibility to pass laws without the previous consent of the Government. And this turns out that we should have the previous consent of the government in order to pass the law. Well, I'm sorry, that's something that's certainly inadmissible. Therefore, I appeal to the motion that it is perfectly safe to amend Articles 30, 31 and 32 in a way that accurately defines who the proposings are, to define what the opinion of citizens is and to change this so that it cannot be, therefore, the previous consent of the Government rather than that it may be the government's opinion of something, about a law like the Government gives its opinion on other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35341	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35342	My colleague Mršić, it would actually be very good after your good debate to open up the controversy in this House why the former government and the current government are for the establishment of new municipalities. Why is it that the former government, and the current government, is not in favour of joining the municipalities even when citizens have come forward when they've made everything possible? So, we agree, therefore, that the time has come for this law that has so far been good and could function to change it, but that we here say and the way we're going to change it, how we're going to get the government to make a law that is good and it would fit at this point because it's obvious that this law has survived and that too many units of local self-government become and brake state development. So, I am to open a whole debate, not a pre-election, but beyond the elections when we have time to finally design Croatia at the request of its citizens. So that they can influence and that the state really is a service to its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35343	Answer, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35344	Well, buddy, I agree that the laws need to be changed, but let's not change them in a way that we can break them. This is certainly worse than the one we had. Because so far, the law should have asked for the opinion of the unit, the representative body of the unit of local self-government, from which something stands out, and here we are now in a situation that doesn't need it. Therefore, the mayor de facto doesn't need to know that his government and Parliament have crossed the city and that he no longer has a city from tomorrow but are four municipalities or six municipalities. It's something that's inadmissible to the one to whom it applies. So I'm sorry, if a local board in one city wants to single out, so I guess they should say something about that and the citizens of other local committees who have been making a solid payment of taxes in the city or municipal budget, building a municipal infrastructure, creating conditions for the development of that place, creating entrepreneurship zones, and I don't know what. And not to say that I want to split up now because everything's settled with me and we don't know what, and I don't care about you there. That's what this is about. This law is bad for it. I can't agree with you, with the second fact, that there are too many units of local self-government. No, this is a pre-centralised state. Let's get 30% of all taxes to local self-government units, you'll see how it works, you'll see how the conditions will create for development in their local self-government units, and we'll certainly have one 3,000 of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35345	Thank you very much. There's no repair on the replica. There is still a replica of Mrs Mirjana Brnadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I wanted to replicate to my colleagues the part of his exposure when he was saying whether the Zaton settlement should be a municipality or not. Well, you see, I've been asked by the people of Zaton, and I've been called in to support this initiative, regardless of all the consents they have, I haven't accepted for political consideration to support them in their initiative, and for several reasons. The first reason is that the village of Zaton has only 400 inhabitants. The second reason is, The City of Nin is the first Croatian royal city with enormous historical and cultural meanings, of course and tourism significance. The settlement Zaton is in every respect related to the City of Nin, from school, infirmary, post office, pharmacy, cultural needs, tourism institutions and, of course, is an integral part of the City of Nin. The tourist resort Zaton, for which the Zatons want to separate from the municipality of Nin, is located in the village of Zaton, and of course it is situated within the territory of the City of Nin and directly connected to the City of Nin and is also an integral part of it. And that is why I think it is absolutely unwarranted to rip up the territory of the first royal Croatian city in the interest of a few people who, by political engagement, should be able to know and know their rights and improve that part of the City of Nin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35347	Answer, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35348	You see, fellow Members, I didn't say in my presentation that I advocated Zaton becoming a community. I was just asking why the people of Vrsa have more rights than the people of Zaton? And now I ask you, why are you courting the political citizens of Vrsa, and you are not prepared to make the same political advocacy to the people of Zaton? Because you give the Vrs to have a municipality, which is the same in Nin, are the same political unit, they're also related to Nin, and you don't give it to Zaton. And besides, there are 570 residents, not like you said 400 and something, but it doesn't matter, it's a question of where the border is, and the question of whether all citizens have the same rights, whether the people of the city of Nina living in Vrsa have the same rights as the citizens of Nina living in Zaton, obviously there is no border, and obviously that HDZ wants to court one, and one doesn't want to court the other, when you're already talking about some historical elements, then it's time to say that 2015 has been a part of the town of Rab, so now I'm surprised who's politically courting the locals of Lopar and giving them the municipality and not being granted to the people of Rab, the rest of Rab, because it takes away from them something that 2015 was an integral part of the city of Rab.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35349	The feeling is mutual. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This legislative proposal has several characteristics, first it represents further atomisation of space, secondly, it is an eclectic example of the government's volunteerism in decision making on local self-government, the third it strengthens centralised and weak self-government and fourthly, it represents an excellent example of electoral engineering. In turn, further atomization, so there are now eight new municipalities, and now there will be 443. Look, if this continues with the creation of new municipalities, there will be thousands of them, especially if these local elections are too early in some areas, then the government will go like this after what you've prepared in this law, just like the colleague said, "to the voters and to set up the municipalities." Where's the border, where it ends, no one knows. Second, why volunteering? There are no criteria, there are no criteria, there are no criteria for setting up new municipalities, and then this volunteerism has a return effect on further atomisation because when the government can propose such a thing without any criteria and what the government will give up on it, it will not, it will. Therefore, this volunteerism should be interrupted, and some objective criteria should be introduced. Thirdly, centralization, so look, so far, you didn't need any prior consent from the government, which calls for all mouths at the will of the citizens as sacred, it's repeated as mantra, the will of the citizens, the will of the citizens. The will of the citizens is of no value, nothing of their will is worth to them because they need the previous consent of the government. Mr. Cervar of the will of the citizens, the will of the government, this is the Law of the Will of the Government, not the will of the citizens. And so far all it took was an opinion, for example on any other legislative proposal that comes outside the government, to have the government's opinion, as the government thinks. But now the Parliament will not be able to even discuss the will of citizens, it will not be able to discuss the will of citizens because the government will not allow it. He'll give a negative opinion, so there's no discussion about it. Fourthly, this is electoral engineering, yes, ahead of local elections, where a smaller enclave of HDZ support is established there. Well, of course, in 8 municipalities, the HDZ will probably win more after this Law than it would have won without this Law, it will be statistically nice to see. It's all wrong for you, it's all wrong for you, and you won't hear what Parliamentarians tell you how to put things on your feet. Do you need to stop that atomization, yes. It's not just 543 municipalities, it's all expensive around municipalities and cities around 550. Well, that's 550 municipal leaders, that's 550 of their secretaries, that's 550 cars of which only one in Sinj costs 800 thousand kuna, so if each of them buys a car for 800 thousand kuna, which they'll do, which will make lighting, sewage, it's not up to lighting, it's not to the sewers, it's not to the water, it's to drive in expensive cars. That's what they're up to. Voluntarianism, give us the criteria whether this is the number of inhabitants, the government says not now this one municipality, can't now Zaton because there isn't enough population, and we hear there are municipalities in Istria that have a smaller population, they have 300, so what is the criterion of the number of inhabitants when that criterion is not valid at all, when there are municipalities with fewer inhabitants. Is this a criterion that the municipality can self-sustain, at least to collect income for the salaries of its leaders, it doesn't have to collect enough to buy another car for 800 thousand kuna but at least to pay the salaries of its leaders, to pave the way for a kilometer of unclassified roads, which is the criterion. We have municipalities that are incapable of living on their own financially, completely incompetent. So make one criterion if the municipality is unable to live on its own in a financial sense that it must be attached to another municipality. Then, look, it is now allowed again under... the will of the citizens to from one whole, from the whole of Rab, we have heard historically for over 1000 years, 2015 to be singled out by Lopar. Well, I guess that Rab during that year of its existence when Lopar was, uh, investing in this Lopar, so as to build Rab, so did Lopar. So we hear from the mayor that the majority of the funds went to this Lopar, so now watch out for you if you allow that criterion the cities will be very careful not to invest in some area a little too much because if they invest, these will immediately say so we will not be a municipality. Well, here we hear from Mr. Caine, I don't know about the case, but he says they have so many nights, they make their income. Well, look, if that's going to be a criterion then really local self-government, county cities, they're going to have to be careful not to invest. Yes, because hotels with 1000 beds will want to be a municipality watch out because there are 1,000 nights, there are absolutely no criteria. It's such a volunteerism where the government says one you can, one you can't and why no one can explain. Which is why the citizens of Zaton are in a different position than the people of Lopar. By what? I would ask a representative of the government to come out and explain. By what? Look, you've given some who haven't met the criteria that you've given them the opportunity. You don't give that opportunity to others who have fulfilled it. And you call upon the will of the citizens. A colleague Mršić has proposed an excellent solution and will give it to me in the form of an amendment. So put in the law at least a commitment to the referendum. Obligation. So we'll have one objective procedure to determine the will of the citizens. At least that. But no, I don't think it's in the government's best interest. No, it is in the government's interest to strengthen the possibility of arbitration in this, to decide, to allow some citizens, not to allow others. In one word, to do as her lordly will. That is why this bill of law makes dear government gentlemen unacceptable. And that is why it is in vain, Mr. Cervar, to appeal to the will of the citizens, because in this law and in the actions of the Government, the will of the citizens is not respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35351	Thank you. We have four corrections to an incorrect quote. First, Mr. Agent Lino Cervar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35352	Mr. Vice President. Listen, it is incorrect what the distinguished representative Stazic says, that the will of the citizens is not respected. And listen, if it's 260, 258 signed a petition, what does that mean? What it is, it's... it's 100% almost. What are you talking about? Number two, it's the same thing as he said before Mr. Perushko, I must say falsely, because there's my speech in April that I wasn't for the establishment of the Tar Vabriga municipality. That's a lie. There's the original speech in April. You made that up. Therefore, I believe that the will of the people and the citizens should be respected. We can't have people centralised, you need to give people a chance, you have to let people decide for themselves with their own money. And let them organize how best they know their lives. Because I can do a lot better than someone else. Only the host population, and they should be trusted and voted for.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35353	Second correction, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35354	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, Mr. Stazic's full exposure is based on incorrect allegations, but I will only catch one in which he says it is electoral engineering. That's just not true. And it's incorrect that this is about the government's will and there's no explanation why some proposals aren't accepted. There are very clear explanations based on the Law on page 138 of this proposal. Therefore, it is not about any self-will of the government, but about the basis of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35355	Thank you. Third correction, honourable representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35356	Dear Mr. President, counterpart Stazic said HDZ would win the local elections of these new eight municipalities. That's an incorrect quote. At six he'll beat the HSPs, and the other two IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35357	And a fourth, respected representative of Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35358	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a lot Mr. Stazic incorrectly stated. I would only concentrate on one of his allegations, where he says that the majority of the Rab funds are invested in Lopar. That's completely incorrect. Because 80% of all the funds invested in Lopar came from the state budget, not the local self-government unit. And if that were the case, it confirms the initiative of the people of Lopar to separate themselves from the municipality of Rab, because if they had been so pleased, they would not have sought their own unit of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35359	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35360	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry that the very reason for this law isn't written anywhere that I've submitted some amendments, and that I've been given an explanation for why these amendments haven't entered this second one itself, into this second reading. But if so, I would repeat those amendments, in the first place and repeat the amendment to Article 31, which is exactly the same as it was before, and it is required that before there was an initiative to obtain citizens' opinion. So I'm wondering how we're going to get that citizens' opinion, if it's going to be to take a tape recorder to the streets, record what they think, what they're saying, so when we get that opinion to the government, and then the government comes on the basis of Article 32 of this Law and that the previous consent that they can't, that such an opinion is not good. In Article 32, we agree, we ask that the Government must manifest itself with previous consent. What did we say? That the only government is able to propose any amendments and additions to the law. That's not exactly what the citizens are looking for. The government can only give prior consent to a positive one, which can lead to some kind of procedure. If the previous consensus is negative, there is no consequence, then it is impossible to carry out any activity requested by the citizens. That is why I have also submitted an amendment to Article 32 where previous consent is changed to the previous opinion. And we will also support that amendment to Article 31 where citizens are asked about their opinion of the referendum. And that's the only way in which citizens can say rightly whether they want some kind of separation or not they want to single out or they want to set up a new municipality, so that's the only way to refer. And the government can't possibly block such an initiative with any previous consent. Because then it takes away any opportunity for citizens to do something. It's about those two articles. However, I have submitted another amendment. The amendment, in fact, has been extended since 2001 by the citizens' initiative to separate the settlement of Seona from the Municipality of Motičina and join the town of Nasice. In addition to the amendments, I have attached the signatures of 303 citizens, 303 local settlements of Seona, and I believe that this initiative is as it was carried out, carried out under the Law, because even the parliamentary committee in the last meeting of the coalition government did not do so. Why? I don't know. They did not separate Seon from the Municipality of Motish, and attached it to the town of Nasice. I hope that the people of Seona will now have far more understanding and that their initiative on the separation from Motičina will be satisfied. Why did they ask for it? They asked simply because they were dissatisfied with their status in the municipality of Motičina, which was founded by my friend, just so that he would be chief and I don't mind, let him be chief still, and I believe he will be, because HDZ regularly won the Lower Motičina, so probably even in these elections he'll still be chief, I have nothing against it, though. But the people of Seona don't want to be in that community. And they want to move from that community to the city of Nash, and I hope that you will accept my amendment. I also support all those initiatives that respected the procedures, meaning all those initiatives that were in the interest of citizens, where citizens are looking in a certain way, but respecting the legal procedure was to set up a new municipality, whether to separate from the existing municipality, whether to move to another municipality. I also support Kutjevo's initiative to become a city because we also have other cities that do not meet the population criteria but also historically, and culturally, both geographically and trafficly Kutjevo needs to be given city status in any case. I also support that because the Budrovs did not comply with the procedure, so they did not satisfy what Sean respected in the matter of detachment from the Municipality of Motič's Budrovci did not respect such a procedure in order to separate themselves from the City of Djakov, which is why I advocate that they are not to be singled out at this time. If they follow procedure in any case, I'll support them doing it. I hope these amendments will be adopted and then I can give my vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35361	Thank you. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35362	Mr. President! Well, I'll say a few more words. I will look primarily at this initiative to separate Lopar from the city of Rab. Namely, the initiative to separate Lopar from the city of Rab was signed by the state secretary as confirmed by the citizens' signatures around 7 hundred signed and ended on April 1st 2003. So December 5th, 2004, so that's right, a little less than 20 months. Following the completion of the initiative, the initiative was therefore addressed to the legal procedure, so the opinion was requested that it was legally required by the representative body or the City Council of the City of Rab and the County Assembly to make this clear. Valuing time, so nearly two years later, a lot of people moved out, meanwhile, a lot of people died within two years. We asked, the City of Rab asked the Central Office of the State Administration to clarify the previous issue and it was requested on 28.12. of this year 2005, so a month after we received the initiative and the Central State Office had not spoken of it. Mr. Secretary of State here said he'd come forward. He deceives the Parliament and us MPs here. It is simply not true and I feel sorry for the government that such officials have in their composition that deceive this High House and us MPs. So he's telling the truth here. And I'd like to ask you about it, if Mr. Prime Minister could take care of it because a senior state official can't tell the lies in this House of Commons. In addition, he gives the government, so the government, at its meeting on 3 March of this year, a decision to refer the legislative proposal to the procedure without what the initiative's proposal was to be obtained, which is the opinion of the representative body, so the City Council's opinion. He should not have been given consent but should have obtained the opinion of the County Assembly and the agreement of the finance minister to see if the initiative was in order or whether it could be, whether it had financial grounds to be maintained. Which, for example, if I pulled one parallel, would happen to you today to request a building permit for some kind of facility. The office issuing the building permits should provide him with a location permit, confirmation that you have solved property relations, that it is in the spatial plan, etc., etc. And if you don't get those three papers, you can't get a building permit. And now, look, the government, no matter what the legal procedure is not respected, should have won the opinion of one, two, three. She doesn't have it, and she's giving it into legal procedure, so she's giving in the procedure a law that's legally invalid. Well, that's disastrous, that's terrible. Well, we can't go to Europe because the world knows that. One Government or Central State Office may not make a legally invalid request in the procedure and insist that it be implemented. I mean, it's just horrible. That's what we're talking about. And I personally look at the selfishly I congratulate the citizens of Lopar that they have succeeded in passing most of the procedure envisaged by law to choose to win their municipality and I want them to take advantage of all their human and other resources and to be successful in their efforts to meet their law of intended obligations. However, gentlemen should obey the law and we are not, we have just been invited to take special care of it. Secondly, as far as the legal proposal is concerned, some future initiatives. Here, my fellow predecessors spoke very faithfully about it. There is a single volunteerism in the legal proposal, so it all depends on the government's will. It is no longer necessary to seek opinion, not consent, but the opinion of a representative body whose work is intended to separate a local committee. Well, that's terrible. Well, what's said. Well, the whole island of Rab invested in Lopar, not what the esteemed and beautiful colleague said was not invested, but exactly the other way around. In recent years, more than 60 million kunas have been invested in the hotel facilities, which is in infrastructure, and it is true that it has been invested from the state budget, not only from the city budget but not because of some beauty or some irrational reason, but that the city government has been making a big deal and that these funds are being invested there with the right because they should have, so that this argument is completely incorrect. And the correct argument is that this is actually about creating an enclave where the ruling majority will now receive allegedly good results in local elections but this is the same questionable thinking. So let me get this straight. Some future initiatives must be clearly defined. You can't go into house-by-house signings in a way that gathers a couple of powerful individuals who will go from home and ask the question of whether you'll sign to be a community. It must be prescribed a way to be clear, transparent, on the basis of the law, and then it is a legally valid initiative to declare citizens. Secondly, it cannot be left out of the opinion, a minimum opinion. It does not have to be positive but the opinion of other parts, cities and municipalities to declare a new initiative. Third, it can't be the government's discretionary decision. It can't be. So the new bill requires that it be a prior consent. It can't be. It's volunteering. This means that every ambitious group of citizens who have a foothold in the government must establish their own municipality. Well, that's terrible. So what do we do every citizen, every hotel, every skyscraper, every house, every municipality if we have, of course, government support. Second, clear criteria must be laid down which can be the municipality. Is that the population number, is that fiscal income, is that, is that some kind of solid criteria? Fourthly, there must be deadlines for the initiative, and not for it to happen that after here, we can theoretically say, some initiative that, which ended five years ago today, comes here today in a procedure for the establishment of municipalities. So the deadlines must be prescribed! And so, we think all together, this law is much worse than the one before, and it certainly is not good to bring it now, it should be withdrawn from the procedure and discussed in the context of a complete reform of local self-government and then put it peacefully after the local elections have been conducted in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35363	Thank you very much. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35364	Well, they're not, uh, well-respected colleagues, they're not the citizens of Lopara. No matter what they're looking for, it's their fault, it's the government's fault that gives who doesn't need it and doesn't give it to whoever needs it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35365	And another replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35366	My colleague was talking about the problem and the essence of the law. My replica refers to us being the most legislative body in Croatia whose task is to pass laws. It applies to both this and all other laws. The most important thing in this business is that we make fair laws that will apply equally to everyone. The basic observation which, in the current discussion of those who do not accept this proposal refers to that this proposal does not apply equally to all Croatian citizens. So he's not just and we're breaking the principle of equality. This is a fundamental observation. And that's the point, it seems to me that he's hiding behind everything. Secondly, it cannot, it is not wise that this, that Parliament, therefore, is trying to adapt the reality to its will. I think it's smarter that laws are a reflection of reality always with the intensity to improve it normally. It seems to me that this is a mild species, what you would call it without hurting anyone, but one kind of rape of reality, and every rape is punishable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35367	Reply to the replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35368	No one, no one, I believe even in this assembly prevents legitimate demands of citizens by improving their self-government rights. So, for establishing new municipalities and cities. However, there is a law to be followed, if the law says that the initiative driver must obtain one, two, three, that he did not obtain, then this initiative is legally invalid, so I don't have to repeat it a thousand more times!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35369	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35370	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Thanks to the adoption of the proposal for a conclusion of the Constitution Committee, we have a second reading of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. The Committee proposed that the emergency procedure be removed because the bill did not show what makes the difference between the existing law and the new proposal. It was not visible which new municipalities and cities were founded and in particular it was not visible why they were founded and whether there are economic and financial indicators that indicate the justification for the establishment of new municipalities. What was not visible in the first proposal is not visible either, although it is slightly modified. At least now it's visible what new municipalities are founded and how many of the population are. So we see that the future municipality of Funtana has only 828 inhabitants and the municipality... As the largest among the newly established, there are 3666 inhabitants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The number of inhabitants is not and cannot be the only criterion for setting up, if it is then there is no need to set up new municipalities at all. There are no financial and economic indicators, needs and justifications. The promoter says there is an initiative, however, we do not know whose. It can attach one citizen, a group of citizens, minorities, most, etc. It can attach to a political option that may be insignificant in the area of a specific municipality. The initiative must be reasoned and primarily reasoned. However, we have no arguments or arguments here for or against. The motive for the initiative could be clear to us. It consists mainly of dissatisfaction, the relationship between the so far municipality or the city towards a specific settlement. Since local self-government has not revived how it should and would be desirable, it is not surprising that citizens want to create their own conditions for better meeting the needs of themselves and their children. They themselves want to determine the direction of development of their place, because depending on the conditions of life, the future depends on them, and they have the answer to the question of whether the future will be at all. Local self-government units under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are performing activities from the local district that directly meet the needs of citizens. Especially those related to the arrangement of settlements and housing, spatial and urban planning, municipal activities, child care, social care, primary health care, education and primary education, culture, physical culture and sport, consumer protection, protection and improvement of the natural environment, fire and civil protection. So the scope of the business is great and each of them is directly related to the quality of life of the citizens of a specific city or municipality. Quality or available health protection is an assumption of maintaining the life of that area. Without education and basic education, the existence of the municipality is unimaginable. Our parents were putting more priests, veterinarians, and agronomists in the same rank. In other words, but content identical to the Constitution is placed in the jurisdiction of the municipalities. The quality of addressing such sensitive issues requires money whose sources are clearly defined by the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, the elections are not unlimited and are not particularly inexhaustible. For any of the newly-formed municipalities we have no indication of their sources of funding. We don't know if he'll be able to raise enough funds to pay the chief and his secretary who will be... for everyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Based on experiences so far formed municipalities in their largest number of over 50% of the budget budget goes to the salaries of employees and other dependent costs of the administrative apparatus. I am convinced that this is not good, especially given that we will soon have over 570 units of regional and local self-government. The municipality must be in office until the needs of citizens are met, not individuals who will find a catch in the administrative apparatus. Of course, in Croatia there are municipalities with very large fiscal capacities. These municipalities justified the purpose of their existence, and their citizens enjoy the benefits of decentralisation. The desire for decentralisation is natural, even if we want to be understandable. However, the desire is unsustainable if there are no financial and economic assumptions for its realization, and we do not know exactly that because the promoter did not bother to explain it. The promoter obviously considers us a voting machine that will raise his hand by party obedience, and realistically based on the knowledge we have at least the majority of the MPs we can say he doesn't know. Even in an attempt to gather information in settlements that are to become municipalities, I failed because population opinions are divided. Part of it is ensnared by the euphoria of loneliness and does not think about the future. Part of it wants to be left alone, but he's aware that it's long-term unsustainable. Part of it doesn't even know what's best for him, and part of it says we want the municipality, and based on the Constitution of the states, it's bound to help financially weaker units of local self-government. So the people are confused, and frankly I am also confused as an advocate, and I cannot see this Law differently than a pre-election folklore for several political points of course on the burden of the people. And since we heard here today in the explanation that the practice since 1993 has shown the justification of the local self-government system and are increasingly heard only praises that is true from one aspect. It is true from the aspect of the observation of municipal seats, however, if we look at the system of self-government from the aspect of the settlements that make up the municipalities then we will see that it is not so. The settlements that make up municipalities feel neglected, and there is a reason why more and more we have an initiative to set up a municipality, regardless of what citizens know it won't, it won't work because municipal budgets are poor. We have drawn up local self-government and it says in the law how self-government is formed and how much funds from municipal budgets should be invested in local self-government. So that's what's even closer to a citizen, but it didn't revive. So if we want to change something, if we want to perfect a system in which a citizen will directly participate in the decision-making process, so make personal demands, then let us also do so in the development of local self-government. This is how we're going to get into a situation where we're really going to have countless municipalities, but we haven't achieved the goal of the self-government system because again most of our citizens are going to be unhappy because they won't feel the benefits of that system because when it comes down to a lower level of me, it doesn't matter who's neglecting me. Whether I'm being neglected by a community called one or another, I'm being neglected by a community or by a town that's yawning because the fact is that my settlement has been neglected. That's not what any citizen wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35371	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35372	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will certainly support the amendments and amendments to the Law on the areas of cities and municipalities, and here I would especially like to stress that from the area of Vukovar-Srijem County is one unit of local self-government, and this is the future municipality of Stitar, of course, if we accept this proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. For eight years now, he has been seeking separation from the town of Županja. I have often contacted them over the past 8 years, and the reasons that they have given instructions in their desire to get an independent municipality were that they want to retain their culture and their tradition and not fit into an urban city like the County. I therefore believe that the municipality of Štitar or the present village of Štitar and the future municipality will have its own, its purpose in Vukovar-Srijem County and that we will be able to see through this municipality that local self-government is developing and in those units where it has not been able to do so so so far. I would also like to stress here that in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County we also have an initiative of the island municipality, which, according to me and my colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, has acquired all the conditions to obtain the status of the city. By the number of inhabitants and by built municipal infrastructure and in this part we support the island municipality's initiative and how you could see in the proposal of this, these amendments to the Law on City Areas and Municipalities are proposed to also make the Municipality of Island the fifth city in Vukovar-Srijem County. The town of Otok will be one of the smaller towns, but it certainly does not belong to those small towns, as the town of Otok will, among other things, be numbered 7 thousand and 755 residents, according to the last census of 2001. In this way we will support if we support this proposal to give the island municipality city status, we will also support residents from the current municipality of Island, and the future city in their desire to get a higher rank than the municipality, which is city status. And under this item of the agenda, I certainly want to look back at the city of Vinkovce, which is the central city of Vukovar-Srijem County, which so far had the temporary headquarters of Vukovar-Srijemska County. Of course, all the conditions have been met that the headquarters of Vukovar-Srijem County has been moved to Vukovar where it is defined, but I would also like to stress here that the need in the future Law on Great Cities and the City of Vinkovce is precisely because of its geo-transport and central position in Vukovar-Srijem County and as the largest city and as the largest railway hub in eastern Croatia, and in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and as units of local self-government with the greatest economic potential that should certainly do everything possible to obtain the status of the big city. Developing local self-government in any case that we have to because it's our duty and our obligation. It is certain that, in the near future after the parliamentary elections, it would be good to open such a topic in the parliamentary benches, see what else is wrong or what does not work in the local self-government in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and in this way I believe that we could one, with one new law, but after the local elections, not be burdened with any party competitions and come to the most optimal solutions when it comes to the future development of local self-government while respecting the fact that the units of local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Croatia should be brought as close as possible to the units of local self-government from the European Union. I believe that most or rather the vast majority of MPs will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the areas of cities and municipalities. I also believe that all these new municipalities, all these eight new municipalities, will justify their existence in future times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35373	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35374	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State who has just arrived at this assembly. You're probably looking through your mazes of your state administration for a memo that never saw the light of day or at least didn't come to Rab. So it would be interesting to hear that in your bag you brought that memo and since when you gave you confirmation from the mail that you sent it. Because don't give us unworthy IDs at all. So there won't be any further problems. I mean those criminal natures. The government thinks this law is really not only in conflict now to the citizens but is in conflict with the law. The government, I think, has disobeyed every measure of respect for legality with this bill of law. If he knows his duty to propose legislative proposals here and there, he still believes that the government law is not valid at all. And in that are the most tragic consequences of this law. Whether or not a municipality will be established at the moment. That might be the least important. Here, many colleagues are likely to have been treated and properly brought up to say that this bill highlights some government volunteering, that this is one political act. But these are euphemisms, they're buffers, it's not about any volunteerism, it's about the eclectic destruction of the law, the illegal act, and the government's attempt to mutilate its lawlessnesss. The law is against the law, the bill is against the law. Here you go. We are all here sooner or later swearing to keep the Constitution as the greatest value and laws. Article 132 of our Constitution which we are so proud of and which we have little respect for. It reads: Citizens are guaranteed the right to local and regional self-government. And then when all the legal and constitutional reasons are fulfilled, the government does not accept in vain. The government has no right not to accept. The government has to act by law. The government is nothing but the administration and the highest official in the state. Starting with the prime minister, or the secretary of state. And nothing else and nothing more. She can act like a volunteer. And every behavior is stipulated in the law. And when he proposes laws, he can propose their amendments. But again according to a certain procedure. And here's also you see in this final proposal when we were hoping that some things would be fixed, right on the trail of these discussions and major objections the government here personally responds to me, that it does not accept my initiative to set up a new municipality of Zaton for the reason that the new municipality would have only 570 inhabitants. So what's the legal reason and what's the number? And what can I tell you that Zaton has no 570 inhabitants at all but 640. And you can imagine when Croatia was fighting for its independence that they were big and what you're looking for are small you have no right to the state. That's the logic you're performing here. So do you know that a little Luxembourg is presided over by the European Union? That a little land of Andorra is living right now and experiencing an economic miracle. And then what are your criteria? You don't have the right to volunteer. Maybe if the law was inconclusive, he didn't say it. But when all the legal conditions are met, all the economic conditions, then the government can't say no, you don't have that right yet. Although that's the right thing to do with this very proposal you intend to provide. So then disabling all other illegal initiatives under the existing law justified and under the law founded to suppress, therefore, who entered, entered, who did not, did not. And gentlemen, the truth is, by doing so, you can achieve one immediate benefit. But it's a policy of very, very short breath. And it's harmful to the government, but I'm less worried about it. It's generally harmful to Croatia. But at the very end of the line, the biggest consequences of the election are this and it shows itself and will show itself to the government itself. How he rules. What a rule that is. So the law, or bill of law, which you intend to pass, which is double-illegal, because it says and I repeat, gives something that is unwarranted to those and where it is so eclectic it does not allow. And by doing so, you're sending a terrible message to the public that there's no legal thing to be done at all. This is, after all, one summit that is experienced as the state administration works and what a citizen even when an individual dares to ask for something from the state administration can ask. That's how you ordered the one who met all the conditions of any permits and this so that he could be rejected. Well, that's what happens to citizens. Well, they've been complaining about the lawlessness of the administration for years. While others get smooth. And what's behind that might not be the subject of this debate. And I think it's the biggest disaster of the law. I repeat once again, Zaton lives for a long, long time and will live without his community. There are living hardworking people. You can see for yourself what revenue they make. Look, what you're doing, I don't mind Vrsir setting up a community. Yes, of course. Yes, of course. But what you're doing from one of the former Polish local committees, Brig, you're taking the Pole apart to have the Pole. One part of the old local board, so you don't need it. And I say it's devastating exactly what you're telling the citizens. How is this our state administration that must be the protector of legality? Well, at least that's the ones who got in here unwarranted, so let's get through these two guys. It's those interns that pass that by two, so at least you could get through here and get one of the medals. Anything less would be problematic. At least you'd try to flush the whole thing out somehow. You see all the legal conditions for Zaton to become a municipality are fulfilled. There's the conclusion of the city council of the city of Nin. Here you are, my colleagues, and I'm talking to you, you're crying here over the fate of the city of Nin that will no longer be in place because it's a royal city, so I guess that's why your kingdom is more valuable than where self-government was born in Rab. So then you say that we don't want to argue, that you've been invited, and I call you again to be a representative of the area from which we come. We must not forget that regardless of the party colors, and this is not about any political colors. I don't even know who they're voting for, what the election results are, and I don't care at all. And you see, the City Council of Nina made that decision on February 11, 2003. The conclusion is the County Assembly, these are the formal conditions, then the content. The most significant, most significant tourist resort with so many nights should not even be said that this perspective complex is Shepurina, has no donations or needs any state grant, so there is no need to be and the municipality to at least return a small part of what it gives to others. There you go. The government failed the legality test a long time ago, but now all the masks are down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35375	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35376	Mr. President, it's not easy to correct any incorrect allegations, but I'm going to correct the one that seems important to me, purely for the sake of the public. Namely, her colleague said that this proposal was brought into conflict with both citizens and the law. That's just not true. And she also said that this is an unconstitutional law, that it's an illegal bill, etc. not even a single reason for such an attitude. But what's important is that the government is not in conflict with the law and even less with the citizens. The Government respects the will of citizens who have made a clear statement, and for all others who could not be respected as the proposal is clearly given an explanation for which reasons are the basis of the law. So it's not illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35377	The second correction to the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35378	So I'm correcting the alleged colleague Anticevic who said this law is against the law and that it's illegal. And she also said that this government is doing something in a non-contract with citizens. I just have to mention it's exactly the opposite. The government and the ministry that you led over the past period worked against the law. Based on Pribislavac, the municipalities your government did not give consent to in one let's say, lobbying in the Assembly on behalf of the football player Jarnij passed the law in the Assembly by the MPs. And your government was a volunteerist, so it didn't agree to this establishment of a new municipality. And she gave other municipalities and other initiatives consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35379	Replica, a respected representative, Marija Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35380	Mirjana, Mirjana. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35381	How? Mirjana. Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35382	Here's my dear colleague, precisely because I want to be a good representative of my county, my constituency, I can't accept this proposal primarily because I can't accept that the cultural and historical part of the city of Nina is being separated from the city of Nina. But I'll go in order as you pointed out in your explanation. So you're saying Zaton is a unique settlement with no separate units. So how they're going to have separate units when there's only 570 residents. So then he says, neighbors, local self-government is the City of Zadar and the Municipality of Privlaka. We'll be your way and City of Nin. Well, it didn't need to be, of course, separated from the city of Nin. Well, then you're saying that no local government has recognized Zaton as its priority to date. Although the city of Nin did not recognize the immediate re-opening of the entrance, the beautiful entrance to the village of Zaton, the paved roads, the renovated church of St. Nicholas, plans to build a sewerage, the highway pipeline is being built, an underground electricity cable is being installed. Then you say "traumatic," and that's all thanks to the city of Nina. ... This is all due to the city of Nin and the resources of the united, the resources of the city of Nin and the state budget. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You say the tourist resort is known not only on the European market but also wider. Of course it's familiar. But the famous settlement Zaton itself is not known, that the tourist resort was not built which part of the town of Nina and part of the settlement Zaton. You say there's a perspective complex near Shepurine. It's a military facility and it's a question of what's going to happen to that facility, whether it's going to be given for civilian purposes. You say further that in this municipality other than tourism, small medium-sized enterprises, service activities and trade are developing. There's two stores out there that work in the winter with a loss and there's a profit in the summer. And the people of Zaton moved abroad just because they had nothing to live on. They've got a handful of land, and they've only lived since a little fishing. You say a farming and food system will develop, grow a vine. I don't know where or in which forest or field he's not in when he's gone. I don't know if you walked through the village of Zaton. I've been there many times. And in any case, you end up saying that the amendment is fully justified, and I say it's completely unwarranted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35383	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35384	Thank you, Mr. President. I was in Zaton just recently, but I don't walk there, I don't have time to walk, but I went to do my parliamentary duty and listen to the citizens who were expecting you there, but well, it doesn't matter. I think it's your basic problem, but I think the parties you come from, where you just say that you can't accept that the law separates Nina. You can't accept that. So please, you are a representative, so you are not the councilman of the city of Nin. Well, the city of Nin decided, but you can't accept it. And that's your problem. Let's listen to some citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35385	State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35386	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm just going to look back at a few insinuations that have been trying to accuse the government of not respecting the law and the Constitution. The government respects the law. It is obvious that there are different interpretations of certain legal provisions as to which at which point they correspond. However, this law has passed all of the government's procedures, opinions and the Legislative Office, has passed these committees twice, the Constitutional Committees, the Legislative Committee. Even the Working Group of the Constitutional Committee discussed this, many remarks were accepted but none of the important neither the Parliamentary nor the Government body found this law to be contrary to the Constitution or contrary to the law. We believe that the regional structure of the Republic of Croatia is, above all, a state issue and not a local issue, and that the last question should be given to the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body. Therefore, the area is not also determined by the decision of the representative body of any level of local self-government or regional self-government, but by law only. And we don't accept insinuations or accusations, direct accusations that the government violates the Constitution and the law. Thank you very much. I won't look back, I'll look back at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35387	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35388	Dear Mr. Secretary said that incorrectly, the law is interpreted as fit by whom, namely, he said that legality is respected in all of this. That's incorrect. Legality is not respected. For a thousand and the first time I've spoken. In order to establish a new municipality, five conditions need to be met. If they're not three, it's a legally invalid initiative. So it's an incorrect assumption that it's a respected legality.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35389	The second correction, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35390	It's incorrect what Mr. Secretary of State says. All procedures are respected, and the parliament is the one, he says, which is because it is the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas that establish borders and general sustainability. That's partly true. But that doesn't mean that you can suggest anything, that's your problem. So you can only suggest what is based on other laws as an initiative and as a condition proposed. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35391	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35392	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will repeat some of my debate since the first reading of the Law on territorial structure and again by listening to us today, we are trying to talk about the pluses and minuses of the territorial structure, and when we speak in general then we will estimate that Croatia is fragmented, that we have small units of local self-government, that this is also one of the major problems for the development of local and regional self-government, but then we will go back to the fact that every initiative of citizens is an expression of their desire and that we should respect it and then find that we are essentially discussing a law that does not give us enough elements to avoid and self-will, so that I would say general evaluations and that we still have no criteria. And again, I refer to the fundamental law, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which is precisely the problem of units of local self-government of territorial structure, as well as the work cycle of extraordinary descriptions. Therefore, employees in the state office know the problem. The problem is an underdeveloped Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which has been in force for 12 years. We haven't given him enough attention. Even the first reading of that law that we had the opportunity to hear a dozen days ago has had a lot of criticism. In the explanation we can read, our basic problem is the monotype of units of local self-government. What does monotype mean? So a city of 200 thousand like Split and a municipality of 700 or 800 residents have the exact same powers and that is our biggest problem. At that time, it is difficult to establish any criteria and territorial structure. Then it's generally very difficult to do what we want, decentralisation. We are unable to exercise decentralisation of the powers of the central authorities and transfer greater powers to local self-government units. What I'm afraid we won't even see before the parliamentary, I'm sorry, local elections. We won't see them. So even that initiative to introduce the concept of a big city, I'm afraid we won't even look at it until the election itself. So we'll stay with the territorial structure and stay with the problem. Repressed units, and burdened with citizens' desire to have their own local self-government. And as long as we don't solve the multi-type form of division of the government or the right to manage the executive power of the people, we won't find a solution. And it is evident that we need to have more units of local self-government, we need to have, but not the same powers, and that is why we will continue to be without criteria. And then what I would most say to grief, all of us need to be grieved, is in the absence of these criteria because we don't have a quality proposal of the Law on Local Self-Government, we use as arguments, as criteria of disqualification. Simply the central government if it is unhappy with the decisions of the county and the city or municipalities that are negatively expressed in an initiative, it uses disqualification. You denied the right of citizens to self-government. These are disqualifications, because we haven't heard what communication is between the state office and the county why they didn't give a positive initiative. What's the negative for? What are the arguments of the state office to the county and the city why their interpretation is not accepted, why will the government have another interpretation? Imagine if this is something that does not suit a democratic society if we do not have communication between the state office and units of local self-government and the county on such an important issue, where they will explain to each other why they consider it to be political self-will, why they reject some arguments and why they will still propose to the Government to accept initiatives from some territories that they wish to single out. There's no communication. There is no necessary democratic relationship between the central government or I would say to our state office and units of regional and local self-government. That's what we need. We need to communicate. But no, unfortunately we still haven't learned enough politically about disqualifications are our weapons. Let's just insult it, just humiliate it. Let's just show the low quality of political war, and that's when if you have a different opinion you're opposed to citizens, you don't accept initiatives. That's unacceptable. That's really unacceptable. That kind of sharing I think we need to condemn and we need to refer to more work, more tolerance, more mutual conversation. And that is why I am convinced that very much the conversation between the state office and the city of Rab would give answers why Lopar, which is why Lopar, whether Lopar, whether to look at historical traditions, whether to look at economic strength, whether to respect initiatives that are either good or bad. It is also difficult for us that the state office does not accept the assessment of the Vinodol Municipality, that it does not accept the evaluations of a county that speaks of historical reasons, which speaks of economic reasons, which says that the quarrels, meaning the individual's personal quarrels created a new municipality in Vinodol. It's a new community. So whether communication between the state office of the county and the city or I apologize, the Vinodol Municipality would still give us more results, and to the parliamentary representatives a little easier work and I would say this political outwitting. And it is obvious that what we must insist on, not accept disqualification, insist on more democratic procedures, more communication. The truth of the changes to the current law where the government no longer needs to ask anyone anything now we need to understand that the government is taking full responsibility for forming a territorial structure. We are afraid there will be no change in the Law on Local Self-Government and Regional Self-Government. There's no improvement. We're not going to see multi-type models by which indeed a place of 500 residents have the right to some kind of kind of kind of, I'd say local self-government. If he were through local committees with more money I'd say right to decide, but of course no space, no clerks, is that money? Without perhaps the right to come up with spatial plans, because we do not have them in Croatia. You know why we don't have them? Well, because for 10 years now, this House has freed these municipalities from a fundamental obligation. And we're releasing them for what? They don't have the money, they don't have the personnel. And what's the problem? You have no local permits, you have illegal work, illegal construction, you have a riot in the Republic of Croatia. We created all of that, right here, sitting here. But why? Because here we are not changing important laws, but for arguments and criteria we use disqualification. This is why it is really difficult for us to accept the evaluations and answers to our amendments in which the State Office is trying to answer us that there is a Vinodol Municipality that is the will of citizens and that it needs to be met, and there is no professional criteria to explain it. We don't have what is fundamentally the basis of the argument, I'd say, and negative tendencies, negative relationships between people, not a sign of the positive creative energy we need, and also that the non-communication between the State Office and the City of Lopar has not solved the issues of the separation of Lopar. And perhaps, very briefly, we also see a change in this Law where part of the settlement goes from one city to the municipality or from one municipality to another. Our amendment to which we said that a bad decision in this House, by accepting amendments to the City of Opatija and the municipality of Lovran, is not accepted because it now insists on what? In the referendum, and in the other proposals that we have today, we did not have that referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35393	Thank you. Honorable representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35394	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. I will support the final proposal of the Law on Countys, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia because in the territorial structure, it proposes adjustments that have proved necessary over the past period due to better and more functional development of local self-government. Since the adoption of the Law in 1997, which has been complemented and amended 16 times, I believe that through decentralisation, a good path has been found because the closer the government to the citizens is a greater and better possibility for citizens to participate in the resolution of current life problems. Although we must agree that a large number of municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia are, it has often helped to develop small environments in the construction of municipal infrastructure because today we have small municipalities that are at the level of construction of municipal infrastructure, water and sewerage networks, public lighting and road infrastructure alongside larger and financially stronger environments. Many of them become centres where significant economic activity takes place, expands and develops entrepreneurial activity through the development of entrepreneurship zones and the like. For this reason, I believe that the proposed territorial structure allows for the smooth development of the Republic of Croatia and still needs to be improved. For this reason, I would like to thank the proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for providing city status for the municipality of Kutjevo in Požega-Slavon County. Throughout its entire history Kutjevo was the economic, educational and just the center of its environment, and written history dates back to 1232, since the date of the winery, the oldest cellars in the Republic of Croatia, whose name Kutjeva was passed beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to all the formal conditions that have been met, I would like to add that the budget of Kutjevo municipality with developed small and medium entrepreneurship guarantees of successful Kutjev that will effectively solve the problems of its citizens and justify the status of the city with its tourist and cultural offer. I also support the city's status proposal to the municipality of Kutjevo in Vukovar-Srijem County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35395	Thank you very much. Replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35396	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Honorable representative to Mrs. Maria Byte. I was offered a sentence that the past period has shown that these changes are necessary. It is precisely the time of this Law and the debate that shows the motives for the adoption of this Law. So pre-election time is the reason to create new municipalities. And all justifications to principles that do not apply to all initiatives show that it is not about the interest of the citizens but that it is about the pre-election interest of the ruling party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35397	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35398	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. I don't agree with my colleague Lek in that section that this is pre-election law. Because since 1997, when this Law was first adopted in its original form, it has been 16 times changed and completed, and since 1993 it has existed in less than this form. Over the past period, certain initiatives have been shown in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the maturity that individual communities become cities and some municipalities. I pointed out that in Požeko-Slavon County, the City of Kutjevo, and in the Vukovar-Srijem City of Island, which really deserves their work and action to get these new statuses. And I believe that just by decentralisation the way the Croatian government is going in its proposals, and the units of local self-government show certain needs through the interests of its citizens that it is on track to go towards decentralisation and that citizens are thus solving their life needs far easier and more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35399	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35400	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, a political option is in power in Croatia, before it was one of my party's own. Tomorrow there will be some third or whatever I know what will happen or will happen, I don't know, it doesn't matter who will be in power at all, even though we all believe we'll fight for that power. But it is important what is called safeguarding the dignity of Parliament and so on, a normal thing, both the Croatian Government and its institutions, and so on, the state itself. The worst would be, or it would be a tragedy for citizens to suspect, I repeat, that we bring unfair, unfair, bad laws and that on purpose. It seems to me after the discussion, this is already in the second reading, that a shadow of such doubts exists, just given the time when the discussion is being held, before the elections, and whether or not they want to, it implies in part of the citizens as giving up to some units of local self-government. I was in the first reading I said, it looks like it's bad for that MP who doesn't come home with one community under his hand and says, "Here she is." And it would be even worse if units of local self-government, God forbid, got political color and talked about HDZ, SDP, HSP, HSS and local self-government units. So what tragedy would that be? That we're trying to paint the party, pirating as they say in Dalmatia, some local self-government unit. And doubtful, let the shadow fall on it. I don't share periods, to be clear, I don't share parties. I speak in principle. You see, there's no State Secretary, he'll probably come back, he'll get the papers again. I think it's bad for the government to think and that it interprets it that way, that those laws, principles and principles that apply to the citizens of Croatia do not apply to them. So they must meet 5 conditions, which is one of those opinions and the Ministry of Finance, from the City Council opinion, the County Assembly, petitions, etc. But Mr. Secretary of State doesn't need that. And there's this volunteerism, there's this suspicion that the state can do anything, or political power can do anything. It would be bad for citizens to experience political authority in Croatia no matter which party is in power tomorrow. That's why I think that the task here is to all of us, regardless of the political options to take down such an interpretation of our actions, which is happening at that crown moment of handlifting or pressing these botons or voting. Because we will be responsible for what happens. It's clear to me, I'm a politician, a professional politician like everyone who sits here because we're getting paid for it, it's clear to me that there are pressures as to how it's said so in the field, when every political option in power is there pressures from the field, to do this because "my things are" in power, but smart authorities will resist that pressure from the field when they think he's absolutely unsustainable, unsustainable, and see here it turns out that some things are unsustainable even if they're logical, they're politically sustainable, because one party thinks he's using it. But logically they're not, when one unit of local self-government meets all those five conditions and you don't let her meet it, and the other doesn't meet three out of five and you give it to her, it's not logical, it's only political and it's radically politically sustainable. That's what this is about. There is talk of electoral engineering or electoral geography so let's not make people laugh at themselves, that was a piece of Split with islands in the same constituency. It was drawn like this, ask God how, so to achieve a certain result, it's nothing that's new to us, but some time, time goes by, so we all mature together and say let's not do it, let's go to the gentleman's human but Gods and civilizational agreement that we don't do it, whatever political option was in power, and it seems to me that this shadow is falling again, I'm sorry that there isn't a colleague of Nika Rebić here, he was the Chief of Justice when one of the municipalities was targeted when they signed by the same people that they wanted to join both of them and the same people that they wanted to join in the same community, so why, so pressure them on both sides, they only signed them to leave, said the women when they signed you, and then you see the same names, the same names they asked to go to go to the same community, it was grateful, because they were reducing the number of local self-government, but the same people, that they didn't say that there was another component in other water. The national component and some other people have been in some fear of being misunderstood if they sign one and the other don't, so they sign all of them, they're often these referendums, petitions, etc. I'm telling you this because we know all of this and we know it best in Croatia because we're professional politicians, we're involved in it, and we all come from the field one way or another. And so let's not tear down the shared level that exists, let's resist the pressures that sometimes have nothing to do with common sense, and let's not hide that some against local self-government, some of which I come from it and others, so local self-government has developed in Dalmatian cities, I won't lecture you about statutes about this or that, and that means local self-government for people, so that's the biggest tragedy Croatia centralization, first it in the head and beyond. It is the biggest tragedy and it is the source of future major conflicts if they are in Croatia. Are people coming out and coming out of the parties thank God and with us it's practice, changing uniforms, more than football players in the sphere of politics, and the problems of centralism remain regional, etc., that I don't talk about it. And so don't say that some are against it. We're all for local self-government here talking about something else, you know what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35401	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35402	Thank you very much, Mr. Honorable colleague Jurjevic said in his presentation that he suspected that these laws were pirating, as he said, party-like in the party colors of the new municipality. There's no doubt about it, it's the living truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35403	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35404	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. During today's debate on this law, the thesis is that citizens' will should be respected, excellently. But the views of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government should also be respected, so these same bodies were elected by those same citizens. Just following these facts, Linic and I have submitted two amendments based on the views of citizens, i.e. the representative bodies of local self-government. So, we ask the first amendment not to establish the Municipality of Vinodol in the Primorje-Gorski County because the Council of the Vinodol Municipality and the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County has been declared to be in a position of reality on the ground and the arguments given in the explanation concerning non-compliance with the legal procedure, and what is more important by breaking up the Vinodol Municipality is the question of its continued survival due to the drastic financial and economic weakness. And what do we get? The situation that due to the reduction of economic power in the future is likely to lead to the disintegration of the Vinodol municipality into another unit of local self-government, perhaps just into the newly established Vinodol municipality. And what did we get? The same thing with a different name and possibly another ruling set at the head of the unit, that is, as counterpart Stazic says election engineering. I guess it's a recipe how to transfer power from national to local level if it can't be otherwise. The second amendment requires that the settlements of Dobrec, Ika and Opric, within the town of Opatija, be classified in the municipality of Lovran, are also in the case of the Primorje-Gorski County. There is exactly the situation that HDZ colleagues, or representatives of the government, are calling for, by means of an argument of the will of the citizens. Supported by the Agreement establishing the border between the city of Opatija and the municipality of Lovran, which adopted the councils of both units. Then what is the obstacle here to the government respecting the will of the citizens? Well, it's all clear. So also the referendum will of citizens, and hence the decision made by both councils from the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski County. This proposal was a good opportunity to resolve this problem permanently and finally. But not the will of the citizens, not the council of the local self-government, not the decisions of the county assembly, but the will of the government and itself. Reading this text raises another question. Mr. Secretary of State said at the last reading that changes to the name of the settlement occurred, erasing the settlements that ceased to exist as an independent and introducing new settlements that were created in the meantime. For example, in the Primorje-Gorski County, it is said that the town of Bakar has a town called Bakar del. I wonder, where's the rest of Bakar? I don't see him in any local self-government unit. It also appears that from last week to this week, dozens of settlements have disappeared right in the Primorje-Gorski County, i.e. the Vinodol Municipality. I wonder how? Whose decision? What procedure? And again the same answer. By the will of the government. Probably by method. If we can't solve the problem or we don't know how to solve it, let's wipe it out. I don't see another answer. That's why there was a democracy in which there was no intercessor between the government and the people in this way. Because what do we need middlemen for? And what good is it for us and the people if they don't support the government's attitudes and will? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35405	Thank you. State secrets Antun Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35406	Mr. President, Your Honor. Yeah, we've got that amendment, both of us, but I'm going to look back at the merger now, that is, the change in the belongings of the settlement related to Lovran and Opatija. I've been down there, I've been to Lovran, I've been to Opatija, I've talked to everyone, I've talked to the county representatives. And we came up with a common solution, it's a common solution, the government's been discussing this problem, and the government is this initiative that the citizens' signatures were collected in 93. She decided to ask the county to check if the citizens' will still exists? Because they claimed in Opatija it was an old 93-year-old initiative, and that citizens changed their minds in the meantime. And they're giving up the deal they signed back in 93, when it came to boundaries, and there's a big fight there, and we didn't want to decide on the basis of the 93 signature, but we want to re-establish the will of the citizens. And with regard to the merger of the settlement. As the decisions of the County Assembly come to us, so we prepare and include them in the text of the law, so we have here in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County several decisions published in the official messenger on the merger of the settlement and we are all that we have, which we have made available. If something hasn't been delivered to us, here's what we're going to do with the evaluation of the amendment. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35407	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35408	Once again, Mr. Secretary of State said that on the basis of the old initiatives, the Government does not want to show itself, or that these initiatives are not put into practice. That's incorrect. In the Lopara case, it is precisely that, on the basis of two years of age, the old initiative does not respect the opinion, without respecting the position of the unit of local self-government puts in the process a legal invalid initiative. Thus, it is incorrect for the government to take care of any old or new demands.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35409	Thank you. And a 5-minute debate, the HSP Club is a respected representative of Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35410	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Party's right club maintains that the proposal for this Law did not fall into the essence of the problems that arise in connection with the territorial structure of local and regional, or regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the proposed Law offers only minor adjustments to the territorial structure compared to the existing situation, so it provides for the establishment of several new municipalities, i.e. the separation of individual settlements. The biggest problem is that the applicant has not defined the criteria under which the proposed territorial changes have been accepted, i.e. the criteria under which certain requests have not been accepted. The paradox is, therefore, that the government accepts a proposal to set up a new municipality where we have a negative view of the County Assembly, and it does not accept a proposal where the County Assembly's opinion is positive. In the absence of such criteria, we are witnessing constant requirements for the formation of new municipalities. It does not take into account the sustainability of a system that creates a number of small municipalities of several hundred people who have no perspective at all. And their budgets cannot solve any major problem for the local population. The result of the creation of new municipalities is most often that a part of them, after their initial enthusiasm, cannot meet even the basic legal requirements of not obligation, so to settle the costs of their administration without even talking about the legal obligation to settle 20% of the material costs, i.e. basic education and primary health care in their area. Not to mention the problem of municipal waste of public transport or fire protection. We therefore believe that the financing of health and education must be transferred to the county level as the health and education of our citizens would not depend on the property condition of a particular municipality. Because we think it's a complete failure to force municipalities to pay off their resources. We believe that the initiators of these proposals on the establishment of new municipalities are confident that these newly established municipalities will be able to survive financially. That is, their municipal budgets, or revenues, will be able to meet all their municipal and economic needs. Here and finally, this bill of law is actually a pre-election trick and we in HSP rightly hold that it is only election engineering before the local elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35411	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Zdenko Antešić, 5-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35412	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Here we are in the SDP Club again saying that we are citizens' initiative to improve, so local self-government is legitimate and we will support it if it is based on the law. However, these proposals that we have on the table in the form of a bill are legally invalid, so for them they are not legally implemented, by law prescribed procedures and they cannot get our support. The proposal on new ones, therefore, sets out in the proposal for a law on new initiatives that should take place in the future, does not provide for a statement, not for consent, but for obtaining opinions as units of local self-government from which certain areas are separated. I think regardless of the party's discipline and the need to vote something that's agreed at the top of the policy. I think each of you MPs knows what that means. This means that any group or group of ambitious citizens who have support in the government can thus form their own municipality. This is inadmissible because the establishment of a part of the territory from a local self-government unit is intruding into the constitutional and legal rights of the existing local self-government units, and at the very least an opinion must be sought on it. It's just inadmissible, and that's for us to say it's nakarad. Secondly, the same way that the initiator is declared should be defined in a clear and unequivocal manner, and I do not consider it to be in the criteria whether it should be 10%, whether it takes 30% of the citizens but should carry out a clearly established statement. In our opinion, this is also what the amendment said, and we need to carry out the referendum procedure. And finally, this whole thing is actually a voluntary way of expressing myself so mildly, that one of the electoral engineering gets votes in some of the areas that we think, which the ruling majority thinks will get good results and we can't support this law. I note, in the end, once again that the club supports the legitimate will of citizens to establish its municipalities and cities, however, it is necessary to comply with the legal procedure that is clearly not done in this case and that the proposer of the Government, or the Central State Office, and he did not respect this legally prescribed procedure, it is simply terrible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35413	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35414	So I have to say that several clubs are already talking about electoral engineering, and I claim that it is not about election engineering but simply about the will of citizens, just as my colleague Jurjevic has unscrupulously claimed that both Kijevo and Vrlica have collected the signatures of citizens. Citizens of the citizens gave signatures to join Vrlica and the SDP did engineering and tampered with this House by the citizens of the citizens of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35415	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35416	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! For the HSS Club never, nor when it was in the coalition, when it was in power, it was not doubtful that our citizens' legitimate initiative had the right to vote in this Parliament when it was based on legitimacy, on legality and on the fact that it is the interest of our citizens, regardless of why citizens express that interest. That didn't matter to us. Why? We want to very separate the question of the legitimacy of the initiative and the question of citizens' rights to equality from the problems related to the functioning and establishment of local self-government and administration in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is certainly for us to bear all those initiatives that we ourselves, in the name of the HSS Club, during the coalition government and today in opposition that are legitimate and absolutely for all these initiatives, we will give our vote. The other part, in which we disagree, is that it is absolutely necessary for hygiene to create new and more quality relations in local self-government to open up a debate on the state of local self-government by analysing everything that was good and criticising and changing everything that was bad in the past years since when we have had experience with local self-government, we have spent all this afternoon discussing everything and at least what is really wrong with our citizens, what is worrying about them, what is costing them life, what is making life difficult for them, what they expected to be a message during their lives, the quality of their lives, and the way they will be able to organise their regular lives in the future. So it would be better if we had left more time for this point behind, which is how to ensure equality for all municipalities within the framework of operation. I mean, Mr. Secretary of State, of course, if I have to admit immediately my part of the mistake in that sense, which is that everyone must have the same rights, whether it was a municipality of 2,000 people, or with 3 or 10 thousand inhabitants, because constitutional and legal equality is something that I hope should not be questionable. And whether someone will consume their right depends on it and must not be imposed by parliament, especially not by parliament. Therefore, in this way I want to show my support to the citizens but also the dissatisfaction that we have spent too much time talking about ourselves, politics, local elections and not citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35417	Thank you. Club of HSLS, LS, DC-respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35418	Dear Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! What we are interested in at the Club of HSLS, LS and DC is whether there is any serious study that would deal with this problem and which would determine which number of municipalities, cities and municipalities in Croatia is optimal. This actually gives the impression that this number is unlimited and that we can indeed have 500, 600, 700 municipalities if one such practice continues or still exists some parameters of economic, financial, logical which would nevertheless say that the number of municipalities, cities and counties is for now the only one that has not changed since 1993. And I'm afraid that all of these solutions in this 12-year practice are actually paralytic, that they show a certain attitude of political power, what someone here has been saying, pressures from the field, and sometimes these pressures from the field get their will in parliament, and sometimes these pressures from the field end in failure. What's an old thing and I remember the debate from the end, it was somewhere between Christmas and New Year 1992, so to enter into such a big reform as was then a new redesign of the Republic of Croatia regarding cities, municipalities and counties. Whether this reform will succeed is always questionable and whether it will cost it certainly we know that it will cost a lot. And very soon after this radical reform, certain needs for a certain mini-reform or, however, a reform that would say that the attempt had failed. And we actually listen to big promises before this parliamentary election every time, but when we get into this situation, we still resort to solutions like this that I still think are moving away from reform and that they're just saying they're palitarian without hitting the point of things. You know these initiatives of citizens who are legitimate and who, as politicians and as a man, you have to respect, but they very often go out of that, from that sense of theft. You know very well these certain, certain smaller places within larger places have a feeling that something, to get a lot more if you were to separate yourself. But there's no big analysts to see what's really lost and that things aren't as simple as they seem at first. I'm saying, there's always a feeling of what's lost but very little someone wants to make an effort to have fun with what they really need, should pay if one of these, one of these, these are the creations of new municipalities. That's why I still think it's a large number of municipalities in Croatia, that a large number of cities, a large number of counties, and that it's simply not our citizens who can financially track it. And until we actually do this very study where I said what is optimal, which is either optimal or really unlimited that we are going to have this kind of debate that is ultimately ideologically colored, which is legitimate as such but that we are not going to solve, we are not going to solve the problem of local self-government and that in fact every time we provide the number of seats, the number of hands in Parliament, means not the power of argument, but the argument of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35419	Thank you very much. And the HDZ Club, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Lino Cervar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35420	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club absolutely supports the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this proposal, therefore, supports units of local self-government initiatives. Whether it's about new municipalities, or local committees, or settlements anyway. I think it's a positive turn in terms of supporting local initiatives. People in local units know very well what to do and want to arrange their lives and their development for the welfare of not only locals but for the welfare of their children and their grandchildren. I think we should definitely say no to the centralist way of imposing the development of local self-government units. Not just once, on many occasions, these units of local self-government have shown that they know very well without mixing on the side best to arrange their development and their life. I think it's the best form and the best way to implement democratisation, decentralisation and democratisation starts with the basic cells of the primary self-government units. Besides, why not let people decide their own fates? Why cut them off? Why support slowness and irrationality in the exercise of their rights. So imagine cases that happen that people have to search for their rights for days and days in centres and never get them. So let them decide for themselves how they know. And besides, this incentive is a great incentive, a great incentive, to the great potentials of human beings that exist in our counties and units of local self-government, therefore, in a province capable of great things and we give them a chance to show themselves. And I'd only say two more things and that's the first thing that these units, future municipalities and units of local self-government people, they have sources of funding. Well, you're not gonna tell Funtan, Tarvabriga and others don't. So I can lend it to others. So when they have the opportunity to develop them, they think it's best because they have all the assumptions. And finally, I absolutely support and stand behind the fact that we must respect the will of the citizens. Listen to the referendum, it's a little demagogy, you know, who goes to the referendum mostly wins. It's the preparation of people for one of the most democratic ways to decide. I've said one thing before, if eight city committees, so the villages of 260, 258 sign a petition so what isn't a referendum? And we must respect our voters and the will of the citizens is directed towards us. Most legislative authorities. We must respect the voters who chose us here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35421	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35422	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Cervar has stated that this Law puts an end to the centralist way of regulating units of local self-government, it is simply not true! This Law is exactly the reverse centralist of local self-government units because the bill proposes that the establishment of a new unit of local self-government requires the government's consent as a central body and leaves out in the first place that units of local self-government are separate from any opinion, let alone consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35423	Second correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35424	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Lino, the distinguished representative said the HDZ Club absolutely supports the final bill. And then he said the HDZ Club supports every local initiative. That's incorrect. If he supported it then he would vote for the municipality... Just like Mr. Lino said, it's all contained and it doesn't support either the government or the HDZ Club, so that's incorrect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35425	And a respected representative of Miroslav Korenik, also a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35426	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So in the same tone, what Mr Kovacevic said, it is incorrect that the HDZ Club absolutely supports local initiatives, because if it were, it would also support the request for the establishment of the Zaton municipality among other things. Unfortunately, obviously from the debate so far, especially you from the HDZ Club and the government's representatives where most HDZ is not standing and it is not an exact claim that you support local initiatives, only partially where perhaps at this time... that it's profitable you support it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35427	Thank you. And final review, State Secretary Antun Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35428	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Whenever the topic is a local self-government and primarily a regional structure, there are heated discussions. Sometimes painted by local situations from where individual representatives come from. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must see Croatia as a whole and the Government must react when it receives such materials with such petitions, with a unique birth number, with signatures and even certified by a public notary. We remain with countless times assertions that the Government has respected the law and respected it each and will respect it in the future, and that it is best to say that neither the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system nor the Committee on the Law of this House has disputed the constitutionality and legality of this Law in any way. I have an understanding for mayors who would lose part of their territory with these regional changes, but that really is no reason to try to accuse the government of breaking the laws on several occasions. But there have been many amendments to this bill. We will study them, the government will discuss them and reevaluate them, and we will demonstrate our position when we declare the amendments. I thank all those who have supported the adoption of this Law. This Law also respected the initiatives of a larger number of parties. Not all of them, but more of the parties that have already appeared in this House, and we think that a large number of new municipalities have been reached political consensus, and we will issue questions when we declare the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35429	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35430	Thank you very much. Here again, Mr. Secretary of State said that when the government passed, the government respected the law at the time of its adoption. That's incorrect. For a thousand and a second time, I say that there is no law that respects the provisions under which the initiator changes the units of local self-government must obtain certain things. If, if the law requires, it is declared that it has to obtain five in order for the initiative to be legitimate and to obtain only two, and three is not legitimate, then it is not a legitimate proposal. So the government, it's not true that the government respected the law. In fact, the government respected its interest in achieving a better result in local elections in certain areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35431	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, and since there are some other initiatives, I'm extending the time to submit amendments until 7:00 tonight to this bill. Now we have a break. Resume at 3:00. We are starting with the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government of the Proposals of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. After that, the proposal for a law on voter census is proposed by the PGS representative club. It's 13:30. Why don't you talk in the microphone? Come on, come on, come on, come on, Where will you vote? Is it okay to vote there now? [[Intruder: There's room here.]] Okay. We are going to vote on the final draft law on areas of counties, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, Bill No. 264. We have a special table with amendments. Let's take it in a row. I ask Secretary of State Antun Palaric to show himself about certain amendments. Amendment number 1 of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35433	It is not accepted, this Law determines the area and the matter proposed by this amendment is already governed by the Act on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35434	Okay. It is our opinion in the IDS Club that, based on the constitutional law, the basis of internationally ratified conventions, the basis of those conventions that the Republic of Croatia has taken over from the former states that simply this matter has one proper way to be regulated and this law on the area of county, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and I ask so many representatives to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35435	Please engage. Please vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I'm asking for a result. 17 for, 14 abstentions, 75 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 2nd Amendment of Representative Biserka Perman and Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35436	She's not taking it. It is an initiative in 1993, and according to the government's knowledge and field talks with representatives of the city of Opatija and Lovran, citizens have changed their will. Therefore, by discussing this initiative, the government decided to propose to the County of Primorje-Goranska to re-check citizens' true will.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35437	... Proposer-respected representative, Biserka Perman. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35438	Thank you very much. Namely, the settlements Dobreč, Ika and Opić are a natural and geographical part of Lovran and some half to one km from the center of the municipality. However, the new structure of local and regional self-government in 1992 was accompanied by an administrative error in the area of the city of Opatija, which is unacceptable to the population of these settlements in view of the fact that they are 5 to 6km away from Opatija and poorly connected by public transport. And in order for citizens to reach Opatija at all, most of them must practically pass through the Lovran centre and carry out all their daily needs in Lovran. In view of the fact that this Law was prepared on the basis of a request for a proposal that arrived until half of December last year, and the municipality of Lovran addressed the central state office in January of this year, by adopting this amendment, would avoid unnecessary changes to this new overall solution on units of local self-government, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35439	Please, please turn yourself in. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 31 for the amendment, 4 abstentions, 70 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35440	It is not accepted for the reason that this legislative proposal respects the will of citizens, and in particular we do not accept the argument that the initiative is illegal since neither the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system nor the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament nor the Office of the Government for the Law has disputed the legality of this initiative and this legislative proposal. We're staying with the proposal so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35441	Dear Representative Željko Antešić, Proposer of the Amendment. On behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35442	Thank you very much. In fact, there is no respect for the motionor's legal procedure here at all. So of the necessary documents the applicant should have given, which is the opinion of the city, it is not given. No opinion was given by the County Assembly, nor was it, nor was the Ministry of Finance's opinion presented. You, Mr. Secretary of State, said in your debate yesterday that the Central State Office has responded to the city of Rab and that you have signed that opinion, and I would ask you personally to hand over that opinion to save on the postmark means to cut the costs of your office, and otherwise you have to bear the responsibility for carrying out the untruth in this assembly. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35443	Please engage. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 34 for the amendment, 4 abstentions, 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. With that, he became immaterial and Amendment 4 then. Don't tell me, please, colleague Vujic, so I can't tell you where the letter is right now. The 5th amendment has also become groundless since the amendment under number 2 has not been accepted. Amendment 6 by Biserka Pervan and representative Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35444	It is not accepted from the reasoning that this legal proposal for the establishment of the Municipality of Vinodol respects the will of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35445	Thank you. She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35446	There is a historical administrative procedure and economic reason that the Municipality of Vinodol is not formed or that as a whole remains present. /The speaker has been turned off/
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35447	My colleagues, you've turned yourself off. Someone shut you down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35448	The historical reasons are that the integrity of this region was defined in the 13th century of the Vinodol Law. Administrative reasons are in fact that there is a negative opinion of the Vinodol Municipality's municipal council as well as of the County Assembly of the Primorian County and that there is no sign of the National Assembly of a third of all inhabitants of the municipality who would give the initiative legitimacy. Economic reasons lie in the fact that there is no agreement between the Ministry of Finance or a proposal on the financing of all commitments of the newly formed municipality. It is also a questionable financial force for both the new municipalities and the rest of the Vinodol municipality and their survival. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35449	Thank you. Please engage. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 30 for the amendment. Five abstentions, 67 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Seven amendments to the representative of Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35450	We accept the content but in the government formulation so that the settlement Antunovac is written with a capital letter the beginning of the title and the rest in a small letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35451	Okay. It's becoming an integral part. It's nomotechnics. 8 MPs Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35452	It's unacceptable. According to the data available by the Central State Administration Office, the municipality would only have 570 inhabitants, which seems too small for us to estimate, it is too small for the establishment of new units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35453	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35454	Your data on the number of inhabitants is as credible as that document you keep saying here exists and we haven't seen it yet and we haven't seen it yet. The site has 640 inhabitants. Not 570. But is the number so crucial in this whole thing? In fact, all the procedural reasons were realized, so all that Lopar doesn't have and what your proposal is to be a municipality. So it also has formal conditions because it agreed to the city council of the city of Nin, the County Assembly of Zadar County. In addition, it has all the substantive conditions, all the financial conditions thus all the things created in Zaton were created by their means, and it would be much more if those funds were returned to Zaton and to Nina himself. Likewise, he had to say that the complete infrastructure was resolved, that our emigrants in the abroad who are always full of mouths when they need to be used for other purposes. And when they hear their wishes, then we don't hear it, but we're reducing the population. And it's also said here from one of our MPs that she can't let herself understand that there's Zaton out of the city of Nina. And you could give Vrsima this is your proposal to split up the local community into Poljica and Poljica Brig and one stays in the Zaton settlement and you give this to Vrsi, however, to have a larger area of a local community you give to Vrsi. Besides, Zaton is older than Nina. It is an area of more Ilirski Liburn, as well as an old Croatian settlement burned down by the Mlets. All this has been made public throughout Europe and the world and you have obviously not heard of it yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35455	Please vote. Please engage. We must vote. Please vote. Vote. I'm asking for a result. 29 for the amendment, 5 abstentions, 68 against not getting the required majority. That also made Amendment 9 immaterial. 10 amendments to MP Antun Kavljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35456	It is not accepted, the reason for this amendment is that the municipality of Donja Motikina is poor and that therefore the citizens of the village of Seona want to change their territory. Or to enter the city of Nasice from their territory. We believe that the approval of this amendment would further endanger the economic power of the municipality of Lower Moticina.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35457	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35458	I am sure that the economic forces of that municipality would be further reduced. But that community doesn't have the power to exist at all. And this would be the first step in eliminating that community. In any case, the citizens of the people of Seona argue that the municipality is being abolished because they can't see in that municipality that they can do anything at all. If their budget is 800,000 kuna and they have three employees, they are left with 50 thousand kuna for capital investments. And that's why they're asking gentlemen to separate themselves from such a community. That this city may be abolished and that it may go under the city of Nash. And the fact that you told me earlier that you were polling the citizens and that they had now given up. Only if you went to Brace's house and asked all the Bosniaks, Tomce, Ressler all of a sudden. Flowers so they suddenly said we agree that we are no longer for this initiative. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35459	Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 30 for the amendment, 6 abstentions, 60 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11 HSP reps club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35460	It's unacceptable. By accepting this amendment, the territorial continuity of the city of Sibenik would be interrupted, and some of those settlements proposed by this amendment would be singled out. They're not even independent settlements.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35461	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, not accepting this amendment is proof that the legislators of this law do not have the criteria to form new municipalities. So you don't care at all about the exhaust elaborates, the signatures of a thousand and 670 full-time residents of Brodarica, and the Secretary of State that this is not an independent settlement is the Official Vesnik of Sibenik-Knin County since 30 December 99, where a decision has been made to form the Brodarica settlement into an independent settlement. So what other criteria can still exist that... [[So what now?]] Or it's just what the secretary of state said, that this settlement is formed as an independent municipality. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm looking for a vote? [[So what now, who here?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35462	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. ... I'm asking for a result. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 28 for, 14 abstentions, 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. We do not vote on the same, identical amendment of Agent Ante Markov because it was previously identically rejected. Amendment 13 of Representative Peter Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35463	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35464	It becomes an integral part of the law. 14th representative of Peter Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35465	It is accepted but in the government's formulation that it remains to be below 3. Bogdanovci delete, but the municipality of Petrovci is added as 16 and so far municipalities from 14 to 16 become municipalities under regular numbers 3 to 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35466	MP Mlinaric? It's consensual. So Amendment 14 accepted in this amended form. Amendment of 15th Representative Peter Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35467	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35468	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 16. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35469	It's unacceptable. Since he followed the structure of the law that was prepared for first reading, and not for the final proposal of the law, and as a quality amendment with the same content was submitted, but nomtechnically correct then we will not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35470	You're referring to the next amendment of Agent Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35471	Did I make you Mr. Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35472	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35473	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35474	I'm saying, did you want the secretary of state to say the next amendment to come, MPs?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35475	For the next amendment which is more unambiguously correct and follows the Final Bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35476	And this other one you'll accept [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35477	Yeah, when the plea comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35478	Then me, just so you don't cheat on me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35479	He can't. He'll be right next.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35480	Then I quit, then I quit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35481	Amendment 16 withdrawn. Amendment 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35482	Amendment 17 is accepted by the fact that two, three nomotechnical errors were observed in the amendment under the municipality of Buje settlement Marisce is actually called the settlement Meriste and on the Italian Merishie. And also the Italian name for Kršete is not Karsete, Karsé as it is mentioned here, but Karsette. So if an agent accepts this government interpretation, we would accept the entire amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35483	Representative, Proposer Furin, Radio Furin accepts. It becomes an integral part of the law with these corrections. 18. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35484	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35485	It becomes an integral part of the law. 19. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35486	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35487	It becomes an integral part of the law. 20 representatives of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35488	We can't accept it. This Committee has very complex objects, and here it may be known to all of us, and let's say the dispute between Solin and Klis, where all aspects need to look at the problem that needs to be solved by setting boundaries. The 30-day period is therefore not sufficient for the Inter-resour Commission to decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35489	There's no representative of Lesar. We have to vote. Please engage. Please vote. Score. 17 for, 9 abstentions, 75 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 21 is also the representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35490	It is not accepted because, when the Government decides on an objection, it also has to carry out consultations and possibly request individual skills, to determine the fact that it could decide on an objection, so the 30-day deadline is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35491	We have to vote. There are no MPs. Please engage. Please vote. Please pay attention to your colleagues and colleagues. Score. 16 for the amendment, 7 abstentions, 73 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 22. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35492	It is not accepted because we believe that individual representative bodies in the current existence have stalled citizens' initiatives by not putting on the agenda a debate on citizens' initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35493	Dear Representative Željko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35494	Mr. President Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35495	Zdenko, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35496	It's all right. Here is the provision of this Bill's proposal that there is no need for an indication, so the promoter of any change is not, there is no need to ask for the representation of the representative body of the local self-government unit from which it is separated, so the newly formed unit. We find it simply terrible and inadmissible because it penetrates constitutional rights and, and those units... The people he's separated from. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So this is actually an inadmissible formulation. But in this way, from one place, so centralist because all it takes is the government's consent to establish a new unit of local self-government. Which means that any group of ambitious citizens who have the support of the government can establish their own municipality regardless of the opinion of the unit from which it is separated. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35497	Please engage. Please. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 33 for the amendment, 3 abstentions, 70 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 23. Representatives Marija Lugarić and representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35498	It's unacceptable. The local referendum cannot be called on the regionality because the local referendum can only be called on on matters on which the representative body of a particular unit of local self-government can decide. The representative body of the local self-government units cannot decide on the regional structure of the Republic of Croatia, so we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35499	Proposer, MP Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35500	So it is not the purpose of this amendment that is not only the question of the local referendum but the purpose of this amendment is therefore to ask the representative body where the regional change is taking place, so from the public and the city that is being split, to ask for an indication of the county assembly which, in the view of the State Secretary, could also prevent the giving of that indication as would, for example, the city council, but it was left in the law. And ultimately, the law clearly defines what it means to seek citizens' opinion, because it is said that citizens from the area where the regional change is being made will be requested. The citizens are all those who are enrolled in citizenship. Therefore, both minors and the majority is not known to be qualified in order to get the citizens' opinion. For example, whether the opinion of 13 high-school students is citizens' opinion. We believe that a referendum should be called on such an important topic, and you can formally find reasons because the local referendum is, for example, being called by general acts. The statute is a general act. Therefore, in the amendments to the statutes, you can call a local referendum. For the local referendum, it takes 20% of the voters enrolled, the demand of 20% of the voters enrolled, and that is indeed a qualified figure that may require some kind of status change. We believe that a third of the citizens are not qualified for the majority and others, that the opinion of the representative body of the local self-government unit is indeed to be sought. Of course we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35501	Please engage. Please vote. The result? 27 for, 7 abstentions, 71 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24 representatives of Marija Lugarić and the representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35502	It is not accepted, because we believe that the Government must play an important role in the regional structure of the Republic of Croatia and so far the consent of the Ministry of Finance has been sought, the government is now seeking consent. So not to look at the area structure we are from one aspect, from the aspect of financing but also from the aspect of the communal economy, in general the economy, development and others, transport and all that concerns the government. So we stay with the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35503	Proposed representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35504	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State. We agree that the government has an important role, however, and it is inadmissible that the government has, that it is the government that exclusively decides on how local self-government will be organised. The initiative is by the presidential bodies of units of local self-government and citizens for regional change should not be hampered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as in the case of Lopar and Rab, the possibility of denying previous consent. We think that all laws and so on and this on the areas of municipalities, cities and counties should be passed by the Croatian Parliament, which does not require the previous consent of the Government to discuss or not at all, but that the Croatian Parliament has the right to pass laws and that only an opinion should be asked of the Government. If this amendment is not adopted, we will put ourselves in a position that certain proposals of initiatives coming from local units and from citizens, the government is in fact entitled to a suspension veto and that they cannot even come to the debate in the Croatian Parliament and we think that this is other than that the Government is giving itself rights that should not be represented by disrespect and in fact non-recognition of the Croatian Parliament as an institution, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35505	Please engage, we must vote. Please vote. Score. 31 for, 6 abstentions, 70 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the next amendment by the respected representative, Antun Kraljević, was contained already in the previous one, since it was decided that it was settled then it should not be voted on. 26 MPs, Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35506	We don't accept. He's also contentiously discussed. This is where the government wants to reduce its role in the field of formation, and we believe that the government must keep the proposed role.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35507	Proposer, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35508	I know this amendment doesn't make any sense anymore, but I agree with everything that my colleague said. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35509	Please vote. Please engage. Please vote. The result? 28 for, 7 abstentions and 70 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. And 27. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35510	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35511	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Dear Representative Željko Antešić. Zdenko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35512	Nothing, it's a sign that I'll live longer. Thank you very much. I would ask you, Mr. President, if I could finally take over the response of the state office to the city of Rab, which was addressed 28.1. of this year, and yesterday we talked a lot about it in the discussion and you gave the order to Mr. Secretary to finally find that answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35513	I can't force anyone to join the government or, after the vote, we'll do it, so let you do it. Gentlemen and Madam Representatives, please pay attention now. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, at least 77 votes. Please pay attention to the concentration that we have a clear and precise situation in this vote proposal, in this final draft of the law. Please engage. Please vote. The result? 76 for, 7 abstentions and 27 against. The law did not receive the necessary qualified majority of 77 votes. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the Club of Representatives, president of the HDZ Club, Luka Bebic. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35514	Mr. President, I'm looking for a single vote on this law on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35515	We'll do that check, too. That's a check request. Take it easy, gentlemen. We'll make a request for that check as well. At the request of the representatives to check the results of the vote... Please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Representative Chief, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35516	I'm asking for a re-election.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35517	Individual vote, prepare.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35518	That's because I saw on the monitor that he showed differently than I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35519	We'll call it in. Representative Ivica Racan, SDP Club. Representative Zlatko Tomcic, Club of HSS. Pero Kovacevic, HSP. Caine, IDS Club, Nikola Vuljanić, HNS-PGS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35520	Mr. President, Mr. President, I remind you that in an almost identical situation when I asked for a single vote after a single vote, you did not agree to that. Be, President, principled and in this case, so much for principledness. Otherwise, I'm looking for a 15-minute break for the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35521	The next club was, HSS was the next club. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35522	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, at this point I cannot find the Rules of Procedure so quickly, but it seems to me that, according to our Rules of Procedure, when the results of the vote are announced, there is no more intervention and the story is over. If you don't do it that way, I'm asking for an hour's break to consult at the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35523	All right, all right. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35524	Mr. President, I'm joining this request for a break. You've declared the results, therefore, the matter is over, settled. It's been solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35525	Representative Cain on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35526	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The credibility of any future vote will fall on this example after you have declared the result of the vote. The electronics certainly didn't fail. He made an appointment between certain parties. Damir Cain voted for this law because we promised the people of Tarbabriga and Funtana. Nobody talked to me on the other side. However, no one has the right to question the House's vote anymore. You can't do that. Most can propose a new legislative proposal, so when it arrives nicely and we discuss it next week, maybe we can vote on it. Otherwise, it's impossible to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35527	HNS-PGS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35528	In Article 230(2), it says in a loud and clear way: "The vote check must be requested before the chairman finds that a decision has been taken." You've made the decision, the decision has been made, I don't see any reason not to respect Parliament's decision. Therefore, I ask that it be determined that the decision has finally been made. If we don't ask for half an hour's break to consult.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35529	All the requirements of the representatives' clubs other than the ruling party were linked to establish that the declared result of the vote was valid. And you're right. On the basis of Article 230(2), a vote check may be requested before the chairman determines that a decision has been taken. I have declared the result of the vote, and I will not trample my word and the results of the vote. The law didn't pass. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35530	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, continue the session. We're going to the agenda. - Proposal for a law amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, first reading, P.Z. No. You received 275 of the proposal for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law apply in the adoption of this Law. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Mr. Ante Markov, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35531	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government with the Final Proposal for a Law which the HSS Club has referred to in the parliamentary procedure has taught to discuss the laws relating to local self-government and, of course, to the upcoming local elections to resolve certain illogicalities, certain observed experiences which have proved to be successful, less successful or simply not applicable and false in the past time in the application of this Act. In the assessment of the situation and basic issues to be settled by this Act, we would like to point out that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia determines the right of citizens to local and regional (regional) self-government. Thus, the Law on Local and Regional, the Regional Self-Government in Article 39 says: "The executive bodies of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government are in the municipality, municipal chieftain and municipal headship in the city of mayor and city headship and in the county mayor and county headship.". And Article 44, paragraph 2, says: "In a municipality that has up to three thousand residents to carry out executive tasks, no headship is elected, but his duties are carried out by a representative body.". In that provision, we believe that the provisions of the Constitution of Article 135 are violated. The Republic of Croatia, which says: "The units of local and regional, regional self-government have the right, within the framework of the Law, to regulate their statutes independently their internal structure and their bodies and to adapt them to local needs and possibilities."and in particular the provision of Article 136. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states: "In the performance of the business in its own region, the bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government are independent and subject only to a sign of constitutionality and the legality of authorised state bodies.". We consider that municipalities with up to three thousand inhabitants are deprived of the right to organise their statutes independently of their internal structure and their bodies because they do not have the said paragraph 2 of Article 44. The Law on local and regional, regional self-government, legal ability to choose municipal chieftains and by the law provided for by the office of headship, shall be carried out by a representative body. It is in this sense that we also hold that it is necessary to implement amendments to the laws on local, regional (regional) self-government and to enable municipalities that have up to 3000 inhabitants that are guaranteed the rights which all others have and thus remove certain negativeities which have arisen and which have been shown by the parliamentary committees, many of them have been given the initiatives of municipalities located at this level below 3000 inhabitants to regain the possibility, means that these same bodies have municipal heads. Of course, there will be those who will take their disdain or their possible justification for why I will not support this proposal to find the source in that the past coalition government has adopted such changes and I accept it as a real criticism. There may be those who will not agree to this because of this, but I believe that neither of us wants nor can sin more than is necessary. But I also believe that all those who live and work, or especially those who are the heads of such municipalities, have, in the past time, faced very poor aspects of this kind of behavior of government where you have a legislative executive authority within one person. You know, within a councilman in the municipalities of seven councilmen, I think there are, when you have a concentration of power in such narrow hands, in which no one else participates, it's in itself that exactly what you didn't want to create is created. And the practice has shown, unfortunately, that this is how it is, that it is just creating a narrow circle which, in legitimate ways, actually takes over the entire government in that municipality. Because headship does not exist, it cannot be obvious, it cannot be in contact with citizens with those objections or those impulses to balance such small units of local self-government. Because of those seven, the four are the majority. The remarks of those who spoke were always that this would increase the bureaucratic apparatus, that this would increase costs simply not true. In particular, it can be confirmed by people who live and who exercise authority in such units of local self-government. On the contrary, people want to have the ability to communicate and to engage the so-called as soon as it spreads the aspect of people. professional and economic decision-making. And headship primarily seas and represents absolutely one element, an economy and not a political approach because its content is exactly what it is. I do not want to say that the constitutional provision and very clear, equality is something that is absolutely guaranteed and that not only has the right to vote, but also has the necessary need to be just like that. I am convinced that if this government reaches it and if it had the opportunity to consider these Amendments and supplements and if it remains at the points that the changes that need to be made are precisely within the framework of the law, various laws on local self-government necessarily needed for citizens, that this is exactly one exceptional, exceptional possibility and opportunity to just create the possibility of who will use and who will not be able to do so. It's not our right, we can't just linearly prescribe that I eat it or that I drink so much, and that's why everyone has to take it so much. We are different, but we have the right, the consumption of rights is just coming out of the Constitution, and that is exactly what the provision is, based on the initiative of a whole series of units of local self-government somehow forced us to come out with this bill and as far as I can understand and the government has nothing against this principle and this principle of attitude. I believe that there are all the conditions that, within the framework of the adoption of a law that will regulate local self-government, this change that will benefit you, believe everyone and leave the possibility of being old for whoever will. Therefore, it brings no one into a subordinate position but moreover, it opens up that possibility that must be normal for everyone. Because this is how we're divided into small and large. Which suggests, I don't want to speculate now, speculate. But I think it is very important that it is not simply good that someone who is the President of the Council who makes a legislative decision to carry out the same decision, interpret it and ultimately spend it in life. It's just not possible, it's not allowed and it's nowhere in the world. There are a whole series of municipalities in Italy, some of which are smaller than some of our Istrian smallest municipalities. However, they do not mind having headship in each such unit of local self - government. There is a headship as one I will call it a civil and civilization step that must testify about a policy relationship with citizens. Because headship is a policy bond with citizens. Without that headship, politics has mastered the citizens. By accepting all the criticism I've said before because I've been in the past, accepting all the criticism I ask you to support this bill because it's equally legal in the truth, it's just and it's on the trail that if anything was wrong, we can correct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35532	Thank you very much. The government about... She didn't give any evidence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35533	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen! Let me remind you, when this Law was passed, there were some of us who warned against the illogical behaviour of representative and executive authority or better put together the functions of the Headship and the Council, as well as the President of the Municipal Council as well as the Chiefs. I think the time has come in the past to start thinking about it and actually make it possible for local self-government to have a representative body, which is a council or, I believe, in the city, that the cities have still kept their headships and that means local self-government has both the mayor and the president of the Municipal Council. What makes me think that? I think that, I will try to show you now one course of annual report for my municipality where 923 acts, 66 more administrative procedures were needed during 2004. So 989 items solved. It is impossible to resolve them if it is not the Council's proposal to conclude the decision or, or any other act, it has taken and only exercised or allowed to exercise in the jurisdiction of the municipal president as chief and all of these powers which have already been said to sublime practically in one person. The question arises, in fact, how legal it is and how much this is based on our distribution of legislative and executive authorities and the consumption of all those European statutes and how much self-government actually gives us the right and how much individual means our citizen consumes real power. If we know that actually there is actually a single management department somewhere he has three members, at least he must have 3 members, 5 or 7 where the expertise is, it would be our state administration, the central office would know more than I, questionable to a large part. Where the profession is not actually like the lawyers that we are not talking about accounting now, whether this service or such service means professionally represented, how much such acts are actually prepared for adoption, how easily they can be adopted and how they are then implemented. So if this unique administrative department still had communal activities in its district and all of this, then you have to think about what kind of legislation actually is, it's actually a legislative, legislative part of the government actually taking place. For example, if you have to as president of the Municipal Council to a single management department because you don't have a headship to make 900 and some decision proposals, prepare them to have both tail and head, that the council has to formally chew them up and bring them in and conduct them myself, I am now asking you how to organise it? For example, I have to do every one, every job up to 20,000 kunas in this way, from 20 to 200 thousand kunas to choose a new commission for each procurement means that it is sent to collect on call and again if there is more work than 200 thousand kuna for the public tender again a new commission. And now all of it, all those excuses that stood out that we didn't need that body, I'm talking about the chieftain that all the acts must be prepared for the council, in fact, are indirectly happening through various committees that were in my possession 36 during the year, which numbered at least 5 members, and if we pretend that this could actually have been done by the headship then we came up with one fact that I didn't need 17 or 24 meetings of the Municipal Council, but that the Headship had to prepare the acts, the Council just to do and the Headship to implement. This is how we doubled the work that I have on the report, my accounting chief claims that we spent some 180 to 200 thousand kunas more over the year for all of these shops we've been doing. Therefore, all those who talk about forming a local administration must bear in mind that it must experience its transformation in jurisdiction, in rights and in the scope of business. Now, let's say in my legal department, we get an instruction from the state office that all the registers, all the documents regarding the farmer's register on this one, means the first and other income support we do make sure that people don't travel 12 or 25 kilometers to the central administrative body in Koprivnica, and all under the pretext that this is necessary for the sake of the citizen and we don't actually get any systematicization or we actually have any real, real meaning of their work. We do it for the citizens, clearly we jump in for them, that he doesn't travel. Either the decentralisation itself is not a question of whether the local community is willing to take over that part of the job or not, but rather, do the job. Not to mention the questionnaires from our central agency, this agency that collects data on the movement of various investments and so on. If we don't have one body to systematise, and the Headship is the one that actually sublimes all the business, proposes, preparing the Council acts, then we are actually fighting all together in a large number of people and we are imposing a double deal because you have to understand that it is unusual to prepare a proposal for a decision, to make a decision on the same council and to implement that decision. I think it's a little self-government thinking that doesn't make sense. I think it's good for someone to prepare a decision, that it's good for someone to make a decision more body, bigger body, and to implement the decision again, the body and the person in charge. So the possibility that fewer municipalities and units of local self-government have fewer than 3,000 people have headships of 5 or 7 members. I think that there is a great possibility of actually dividing the government and in a way that is easier to function because all of this is already in advance what I say is combined in one, I guess in good faith, to avoid duplication, but it has turned out to be for us some, I am not claiming for all and this is not an imperative requirement that all the units should have, would allow us to really get rid of the work, one normal vision of decision and would actually be one systematic distribution of both executive and representative authorities, and clearly would have the Commissioner in the right sense of the word, because this is the President of the Municipal Council, who has been acting on the duty of the Commissioner several times, is unfortunate and unusual because every time you have to go to the municipal council's decision that one act would be valid and prepared, and I have already said in what way that act is possible to come. I accept all those who think that in small municipalities they don't need it and where they estimate they don't need it if it's not such a large number of acts. And here I remind you there were items 923 that were all points of the agenda and 66 administrative procedures of 989 objects in one municipality through the municipal council to implement it all together. I think it's a sign and a warning enough to allow such units of local administration to assess that they also need that kind of local self-government. That's why on behalf of the HSS Club, I'm also proposing to the Proposer to accept these amendments. Because they really just give opportunity to those who want to, those who don't want to act this way even though they've estimated they don't need the headship to keep the status they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35534	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovačević please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35535	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Representatives of the government. As always in the HSP, and in this case he proved his principle and consistency, in 2001 we were against the provision of Article 44, paragraph 2, because we then pointed out how and how this can be produced. When the legislative conditionality is exercised by the executive authority. So one body does one thing and another. If that were the case, I could only read you concrete evidence. For example, the municipality of Jasenica, which also belongs to this group. Where there is no headship, the council also performs the role of headship, and we were contacted by Croatian defenders at the HSP club. It is a small municipality that can even pay salaries to its employees to sell construction grounds by the sea. And what happens here and how. And now the defenders are writing to me and talking about specific cases. When there was a case of sale of a large plot of 15,829 square meters, then the competition was opened in Slavonia. The voice of Slavonia that everyone knows that this contest has been called, is not, say, in the Free Dalmatia that goes out there. And it's a miracle that this great terrain has got one man, whom the defenders have established to claim is even a note that with a no-protest clause and by seeing it forged. And when there were small building lands then it was published both in the Free Dalmatia and in the Zadar List. And then the price was they competed they gave a price of 100 – 150 kuna but no one passed because then prices grew 200, 300 and 400 kuna. This is just one of the concrete evidence that it is not good for this decision for the headship or council to perform the role of headship. And there are many such solutions, or irregularities, that we do not talk about all those situations where these chapters or councils have to make decisions regarding the implementation of the law. Whether in the area of communal activity or anything else, we know for ourselves that many of these municipalities do not have municipal directors, although it is a very important part. Nor do those jobs. I therefore think that only from these examples is it visible that the time has matured and we support this final proposal of the HSS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35536	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35537	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. In principle, the SDP club can support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Because we really don't think that there should be such a restriction in the law that someone can't make an internal organization in the local self-government unit if they really want to. If others do, or if they have other units of local self-government. However, we would have been much happier at the SDP Club if that article had not read so. It's that she went to what we're up against, and that's to go to the direct selection of mayors and mayors. Therefore, instead of saying that the score is to delete the provision that the offices and headships are to be carried out by the council, that it was to be placed there that the business of the headship, if it is not so, should it not be defined, was carried out by the head of the municipality. So we believe that this was not sufficiently precise or not good enough defined in the 2001 law. And as such, the law and practice have shown that there is a need to amend the law. But we believe that if we are already preparing for the direct election of the mayor, then the mayor that we really might have been able to, so here's the Proposer having the opportunity to intervene with the amendment in this law. To create such a one let's call it an experiment and in municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants say that there is no headship but that the headship substitutes the Chief. Therefore, if we advocate that, for example, in the city of Zagreb, we have a directly elected mayor or in the city of Split a directly elected mayor who would then certainly not have a head office but would be mayor and city council. Then we think that there is no need now to introduce a provision where headship can be created and in municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants, but perhaps it would be a really better provision to say in municipalities up to 3,000 residents for certain jobs, not to be chosen, but to head the business of the headship is carried out by the head of the municipality. And then there would be a time of four years for how certain it is that this government will not propose amendments to the law of direct choice. Let's see how this, for example, is going to work for such small municipalities, the quasi directly elected chief, or the Commissioner who will have the authority of the directly elected chief. However, we cannot agree with the introductory explanation of the motion that puts there that the headship is some link between citizens and politics and between citizens and mayors and citizens and mayors. We believe that it is the councilmen who are the bond between the citizens and what is happening in a certain city. And they don't need any other connections. I think the problems in functioning exist exactly what my colleague Kolar said was that the problem is that the small authority of the unit leader of local self-government, because the leader of the local self-government unit, however small or large, was that you could make decisions on your own within the budget of up to 20,000 kuna. And for everything else, you have to have a decision of the city or county or municipal headship. Now that, where you don't have it and these are the municipalities of up to 3,000 people, then you really have to convene the city council or municipal council, since the municipal councils have between 7 and 13 members. Then it turns out that in these municipalities there are defacto city council heads who act as municipal councils, bigger than the city heads. So it's one of those absurds that was defined by the 2001 law. But we in the SDP think that a better quality solution would be to change that provision, and instead to form this headship again. Because it's going to be possible here to form a headship of three to five members. If we have 7 elected council members, and if we form a 5-member headship, then we'll get to 12 of the officials in one small municipality again. And today there was a debate here about how big or small our municipalities are, so we said we wouldn't start a municipality with 750 inhabitants. Unfortunately, we have municipalities that have 200 inhabitants. This municipality must therefore select 7, at least 7 council members so that at least 3 members of the headship should choose, or if it goes to maximum, you could select 13 council members, and then 5 members of the Headship which is 18. So it would come to the fact that practically every family you have someone in the council or in the headship. Since we do not have the government's opinion and neither has the parent board discussed it then it might indeed be the Government to consider reading the Law on Local Self-Government installing such an option, so to remove the inability to appoint municipal councils in small municipalities. But here we are really proposing that we go after the fact that in these small municipalities we do not create additional costs but rather allow the Commissioners to substitute all powers of the headship. It is about a small number of municipalities and it is about municipalities where the commissioners can indeed do so. And then we can see that perhaps in these municipalities, the chief has an obligation to report more frequently to the chieftainship of what he did. So the SDP Club in principle supports the amendments to this law, suggesting therefore that we suggest that instead of the possibility of introducing a headship, it introduces an amendment to the intervention and that it should be the municipal chief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35538	Thank you very much. Correction, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35539	Dear Mr. Vice President Mršić said inaccuracy and so he said that in small municipalities, these municipalities mean up to 3,000 inhabitants of the Council's acting headship. It's the opposite of the board of acting as headmasters. And that's why that's the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35540	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35541	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club really and ultimately supports this proposal not only in principle, because we think it is really necessary before these elections are done and done. And the fact that the government didn't give a written statement I'm interpreting that it agrees with this proposal because if it had been against it, it would have written that it didn't agree with this proposal. Two content items. When we try to create criteria for local self-government here in Zagreb, we tend to wave numbers. In this case, it is the number of inhabitants we forbid them to choose heads. All morning, we've all been sworn to the right of citizens and local self-government to arrange their lives, their work, how they know it's best. And here by cutting the sword to 3,000 heads, we forbid their souls, not even allowing them to decide their own will or will not, but by law we say that they cannot have headship because there are too few municipalities. Let's do some numbers and still play. Whether or not the number of settlements belonging to a municipality determines the amount of work in that municipality and the mayor. Whether or not the level of the budget determines the capacity of the municipality to work well even though it is so small that it seems to us that it would be best strangled and abolished, deleted from the map of the municipalities in Croatia. We didn't lower these other numbers because we didn't have enough sharp scissors to watch out and cut it, but the population number is the only criterion. Little, old, big, blind, limp, doesn't matter what kind. Now let's play a little further. The election is this year. What data on the population are we taking? From the 2001 census. Then the next election will be 2009. What data are we going to take then? From the 2001 census. So we'll have a safe list in 2011 so the data will be published in 2012 so that in 2013, we may be able to change data on the number of residents to apply some rights or not, and in the meantime, the municipality passed 3,000 inhabitants, but it's not written in the 2001 voters list, it doesn't matter. So what happens within the interval, list and publication of official data prevents those municipalities that already have over 3,000 residents from choosing headships, because, please, they must respect the census of the population that is done ho, ow, ow. So in 2013 if we don't change this only then we will allow these municipalities to even those who have a greater number of residents at the moment take advantage of that right. That's when we play numbers. And two. Do these municipalities have different powers, obligations under the law, like those that have 3,000 and one resident? They don't have to worry about preschool education, local roads, cleanliness, communal order. They don't have to build sewers, plumbing, electricity. They have the exact same powers, the same obligations. They're equally responsible under the law. The president of the council as chief, or head of the municipality with 30 or 20 thousand inhabitants, is all the same. None of the rights, none of the obligations differ between these and these municipalities. The only thing that bothers us is that they wouldn't have 3, 4, 5 members of the headship. Why? So if we all trust the local self-government, if we all believe that citizens make a good choice and that it is a reflection of the representative body of political will of these very inhabitants and let them decide whether or not they will choose, they will suffer, so if you want, from their own money and pay some compensation to those members of the headship. Either we say that these hundreds of members of the headship can establish, compromise the budgetary stability of the state, or local self-government. No one's gonna argue that. That's why we'll support it. I'm hoping for this bill by vote. Maybe the government is preparing some kind of a better solution on this trail. And finally, only what counterpart Mršić resented for not sticking to the principles of direct elections. As far as I know, this law doesn't regulate the question of how to choose, this is the Law on Local Self-Government, and the choice of leaders is the subject of another law, so this remark here really couldn't stand on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35542	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35543	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In fact, we should thank our colleagues that this bill has appeared before us. Why? Because he points to the absurdity of the situation regarding the organisation and territorial structure of our units of local self-government. The fact that we have about 549 units of local self-government, and if the total number separates the units of local self-government we call municipalities, then we will notice that up to 7% of municipalities have less than a thousand, about 7% of municipalities have less than a thousand inhabitants. That even more than half of these municipalities have, or 55.6% have fewer than 3,000 inhabitants or are located in this category units of local self-government up to 3,000 inhabitants. Also, the smallest municipality has only 137 inhabitants, and the largest 15 thousand 500 or slightly more inhabitants, etc. So total disproportionateness. And in this context, when we take into consideration this bill, we did not actually have to ask the question of how much in fact related to the factual structure, and in accordance with the applicable laws drinks the water provision of Article 4. The law states that the municipality is a local self-government unit established in the rule of the area of several populated places that represent a natural, economic and social whole. Namely, the information I said earlier suggests that, in fact, the largest number of our municipalities if the Constitution is consistently respected, respected the law, respected the European Charter of Local Self-Government, or ratified provision that we have ratified, can practically not provide a sufficient source of their own income to finance and fulfil those obligations that they would have to meet in order to create preconditions for decision-making on jobs and interests in order to meet the direct needs of their population. The second thing that should be asked is actually a matter of concept nature. Our current law does not come from the fact that local self-government units exist in power and that the government, as it does not come from the Charter of European Self-Government, is divided into legislative, executive and that I do not list now, judgment, etc. Rather, it comes from the fact that units of local self-government are places where citizens or through which citizens, through their representatives, decide and manage social affairs in order to satisfy direct interests and needs and from there, have happened that if we try so much to compete with the state level that, practically, in our municipalities and cities, a full parliamentary system is accepted, unlike the state level where this is not yet possible until the end of constitutionally. What's he looking at? It is reflected in the fact that, in accordance with the law in force, I will remind myself of the provision of Article 40 and in particular Article 46 shall be selected from the order, as a rule from the council members elected to the municipal and city councils. So if we want to talk about the issue of shared power, then we should actually resolve that question when they must put their mandate on hold, until when, can they renew, etc. and why should we not normally be outside the council if we want to get professional and quality people who should get to work quality and professionally, etc. And that's the topic that this law also opens, and that's why I'm grateful that he showed up, because it's about the law that's in the first reading. This subject was also discussed when the current law was passed now. We have not been able to shed light on all open questions until the end of the day, but they show that these questions are and should be seriously discussed. The third problem that follows from this is whether amending and supplementing the law that should ensure that they can be members of the headship, and in particular the professional chief, solves the issue of employment and wages. I think it's a peripheral question like the peripheral question of whether members of the council may be or may not be members of the headship. The real question is whether or not this unit of local self-government can function and the other real question is why, in the situation where we have already foreseen it, the idea of ensuring direct supervision and control of citizens related to the exercise of the right to local self-government of those units of local self-government in which the representative body is at the same time an executive body. We did not work out that part and we practically had to prescribe or prescribe that at least once a year, and certainly before submitting the report on the implementation of the budget and the adoption of the new budget, citizens should be informed that they can control their councilors and everything else, if they do not already have representatives who do so on behalf of them because they are representatives in a double role so that they are difficult to control themselves. For all these reasons, I personally think that the debate on this bill should be held, that it should be played into another reading and that further questions should be enlightened until the second reading, because these little changes you know when you read this way that I do not know 44 words, delete paragraph 2 or delete words 3.01 etc. This looks like gas, and actually these issues open the essence of the functioning and realization of the system of local self-government on micro-level at... units as they open the question at all when we will actually get out of the framework and the burdens that puts before us a question of actually military morality. On the one hand, aware that such a system as the territorial system is now the formation of units of local self-government we can neither have nor is it efficient, that it is too expensive, that it is depreciated and that it cannot be fully functional because we have simply too many units of local self-government that can't actually function, and yet all indicators show it. When we muster up enough courage to make a step more in reforming the system of local and regional self-government and to round up units of local self-government so that they are truly spatially unacquainted with the economic, cultural and historical space and the space of social action in which citizens can directly meet their needs and interests and manage social affairs or through their elected representatives so that they can have a unit of local self-government. Because otherwise, you know, we're gonna keep getting carried away with the idea that's actually the best plastic this morning in his discussion, said colleague Cain. How are we going to be against establishing a new municipality or a new city because if we're going to be against it then the citizens who are going to be there will not vote for us and that's true. That's unfortunately the way it is. But the question remains what we have done for them is a favor or a bear service by creating a unit of local self-government in which I cannot function and achieve the satisfaction of my direct interests and the need of number one and number two, while at the same time spending in fact part of the social wealth on jobs that the social community objectively uses on micro-locality does not. I think these are all the questions that raises this proposal to amend and supplement the law, and in this respect it would be good to take this bill as an initial capital that opens up a discussion of what to do with the local self-government system in our country. That's the problem. Thank you very much, and in this respect I support first reading and that it goes into second reading this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35544	Thank you very much. Does the proposaler's representative want a final word? Dear Representative Ivan Kolara, on behalf of the motioner of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35545	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank those who openly support the amendment and the addition of the law. The answer to my colleague Mršić, I think it would be too ambitious if we went to these changes and additions, but in any case, we will also support such an initiative for the direct selection of commissioners, however, on a second principle rather than now at a small door, because it probably wouldn't have worked all together. I'm going to try to paint again what it all looks like in a small community. So the municipal council is preparing a draft of decisions and general acts that the municipal council must make. It provides professional assistance to citizens under the rights and duties of the municipality. You know the rights and duties of the municipality, from local administrations, self-government, education, culture, education, social welfare, etc. Donasa means public needs programmes, livestock promotion programmes, the programme maintains infrastructure, the supply plan of goods and services and its changes and additions, two, three, five times. Decisions on the establishment of expert commissions for the admission of works have been made after the invitation and those of the public tender. Decisions on financing whether the student, the student is an amendment to the decision, etc. Decisions on the selection of the most favourable offers for works that can be 10, 12, 15 during the year. Decisions on the conclusion of the contract of those same procurements which are most favourable and the concession of these works, decisions on applications from, for entrepreneurship and other loans. Decisions on the establishment of libraries or other institutions, decisions on the conclusion of a contract, decisions on the adoption of an idea solution for works such as that, decisions on making amendments to the spatial plan or the adoption of a spatial plan, decisions on the award of public recognition, decisions on amending and supplementing the decision on the determination of municipal activities, decisions on the approval of loans for women, young people and that programme which was from the ministry, the decision on consent to the construction of parking, foot-and-mouth disease, roads, etc. Decisions approving subsidies to owners for a variety of needs when buying breeding heifers or something else, a decision on a municipal contribution, a decision on determining information officers, a decision on setting up a catalogue of information. I'm saying, these are all the responsibilities we are forced to bring. We are simply a small or large community in the order of our structure. Decisions on the specific conditions of construction for TK or I do not know which sewers, decisions on the assessment and threat of the target population, decisions on the modification and addition of decisions on places and burning of weeds, decisions on agritechnical measures in agriculture, decisions on the modification and addition of a business time decision where we have to give consent because there is no body other than the council whether it is from 6 or 7 to 10 or 12, whether it is tourist season or not. Decisions on municipal contributions, decisions on amending the start-up and completion of working hours. And now that I'm not bothering you, it's so much of a decision that, in fact, in that colossal decision, it's hard to manage, if you don't have one body in place that puts it all together. And at the same time, we follow the budget, we control ourselves. So we bring and control and we're both him and the cadiya and the prosecutor. I think our proposal in this regard is consistent and that it actually separates from the representative authority. In any case, I support this debate, proposed by the honourable representative, Mr Arlovic. It takes jurisdiction and needs to be classified, ultimately also to say the Law on and officials in local self-government and local self-government he should experience root changes where graduation would really be and indeed all the conditions under which a certain body of local administration and self-government should be applied. And to the central government and to the citizens. I think that self-government actually consists of how satisfied the residents of a particular locality, certain local self-government, and in order for them to be even more satisfied, I think it takes this expeditionivity that is not all classified and actually concentrated power in one, is it a representative body or is it given him some other powers. So the HSS Club thinks that it is necessary to pass this law and that it would be for the general good of our local communities, especially those smaller ones who would rightly consume it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35546	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vladimir Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35547	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd like to correct just one detail that Mr. Kolar said on behalf of the promoter here. So he says they are, he listed a series of powers that are now being imposed. I am correcting it, it is not about the powers that are now being imposed but about the powers that were passed since 6 April 2001 when the current Law on Local and Regional Self-Government was adopted. And I think it can be determined from this that it was a failed experiment of the former government, these amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government that was then passed. So I also believe that in the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government, the Government will also take into account those arguments that are heard today and put forward one variant in its final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35548	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on. Proposal for a law amending the Law on local and regional self-government, first reading, P.Z. No. 275. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSS is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please engage. Please vote. Score. 49 for closure, 9 abstentions, 50 against. The conclusion was not accepted. Suggest that the law goes to first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35551	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law by the HNS-PGS Club is actually one of the basic preconditions for the revision and better organisation of the entire set of electoral laws. Along with that proposal to amend and supplement the Law on residence and residence, which the Government put in the procedure at this session. These two laws form a basis on which better-formed electoral laws can now be upgraded. This Law on Lists of Voters was adopted in April 1992 in quite different circumstances, under very different conditions and with the intensities and in the organisation of a state that is simply not so anymore. We decided to give the law in a regular procedure without insisting on the urgency of the procedure for the simple reason that we believe that this type of law regarding the elections should be passed not immediately before the elections, but that it would take time for people to see the complexity of the whole problem, that everyone would make their observations, that since it was not political but rather technical law, we would come up with a solution that would be acceptable not only for the next elections but also for a little more choices. The aim of the Law is seen here and in reason, it is primarily constant data update through the installation of the obligation of the competent authorities, the home office, the police and whoever, to supply the spot data within a very short period of time to those state authorities that keep lists of voters, i.e. the register of the population from which the list of voters is drawn. The second objective is to establish the obligation to control the list of voters from the authorities that lead them and the obligation to compare and place, overlap two databases. Databases for voters who have residence in the Republic of Croatia, databases for voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia in order to establish, for example, persons who are registered on both such lists of voters. Of course, the prerequisite for this is computerisation, a unique "software", which would be run and pooled by voters' lists of voters held in the county offices of the administration, unification in the central, in one central database. This Law does not in any way affect the position and definition of emigration. This is not the purpose of this law. This law simply does not concern the team. The position of the Croatian People's Party on this is clear, we have already said it many times in the Parliament, but this is not the subject of this Law, so we have not included it in any way, but we have already accepted the existing situation that has been regulated by other laws. One of the objectives of the Law is also an insight into the list of voters as the right of all citizens, and the right to obtain a list of voters as the right of all participants in the election process, which so far has not been the case and which we do not think is right. All participants participating in the election procedures at any level shall be entitled to such a list of voters. That I don't think should be controversial. The final result should be the transparency of the election. More transparency than has now been the case, less doubts about setting results, less doubts about voting for non-existent voters, less doubts about the need to conduct video surveillance in cemeterys and the like. Of course, this law itself will not solve all this. Unless we change and apply the Law on residence or residence, a good part of these facilities will simply not be realized. Maybe just a few notes through the main articles of the law so much that you get a picture of what, where what is proposed and how. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The censuses are conducted at the county level and are united in, at the Central State Office. Also in Article 4, a comparison of the database for citizens or citizens of the Republic of Croatia with their residence in Croatia and those who do not have residence in Croatia as well as the way citizens with residence in the Republic of Croatia will vote at the moment of some future elections outside their place of residence. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So computerization, electronic, electronic censusing and keeping a list in shape, in the form of books. Article 6 shall regulate the obligation to update the data not only by the body holding the lists of voters but also by the authorities to supply those data. So police departments and local self-government authorities. Article 7 sets out the place of entry in the list. where who and how are listed in the list of voters. Citizens staying in the Republic of Croatia are registered, of course, where their residence is. Citizens who do not have residence in diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia abroad. Articles 12 and 13 shall regulate the entry at the request of the citizens. Of course, it will always happen that someone will not be on the list of voters and that it will be necessary for him to come to that list with his own intervention, and this possibility is also left behind in this proposal. Articles 14 to 16 clarifies how voters' lists are done and how voters' lists are concluded just before the election. Articles 17 and 18 define the Commission as the body of local self-government which confirms the lists. No one, in no central state service, can know a better state than a commission to be founded by a municipality or city. Is any of the voters really here, is he alive, has he moved out, has he died abroad, has he, has something else happened to him? We therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary for such a commission to exist and that in time it will receive a list of voters from the central office in order, of course, for its electoral, electoral unit or for the area in which it operates, so that it can intervene in that list and return the list to the central database. Article 19 regulates the provisional entry. It is about temporarily enlisting citizens who will vote somewhere outside their place of residence. The provisional entry is established for, for these elections and after the election is deleted. A similar solution exists in the current law. Article 20 elaborated on the vote, the famous vote with confirmation that if all these data are kept up to date and spot as the law provides for it will be very rare and almost unnecessary. Finally, Article 21 provides for criminal provisions which have not been laid down in the current law. It was one of those famous laws without, without beating. The law must have both carrots and beatings otherwise it doesn't work. If there are no criminal provisions and nothing happens, and the responsible persons don't respect the law, then it will rarely be respected. Finally, in the transitional provisions, we propose that this Law enter into force or that it starts to apply from 1.1.2006. So not for these elections, for the next parliamentary elections, for some referendums that may be similar after that date, so that we simply leave enough time for all of us here and the citizens on the ground to comment on the text of the law and to shape the law so that for the next few choices at least it works. The Proposer is open to all remarks, to any better solutions. It's about first reading and second reading I hope we get a text that will be acceptable to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35552	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Joseph Leco on behalf of the Club of Representatives and not on behalf of the Club? Excuse me, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35553	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, the importance of the voter lists is undoubtedly one of the most important issues for human rights. It should be said that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states in its Article 1(3) that the people exercise power by choosing their representatives and by direct decision. Who will be on the list of voters, who, who outside that list of voters is indeed the fundamental right for legitimate and legitimate elections of the representatives of the people. And when we go according to the objectives set by the Proposer of this Law, they are really worth it. It is said that this law prevents the abuse of voting rights through a double vote in the Republic of Croatia and abroad. Then, in the fourth point, allow for a clear and unambiguous establishment of the status of citizens who have the right to vote. And the 6th to achieve a higher degree of transparency of elections and to prevent manipulation in elections. Indeed, these choices are worth the attention of this House. In particular, I unfortunately believe that the law is written under the impression of an election for the President of the Republic of Croatia. However, my view is that the substance which is the foundation of democracy is therefore the right to choose and be chosen must not be written or decided under the impression of it, even if it is positive or negative. Is it possible to achieve the objectives provided for by this law? The promoter himself says it's not possible. And I don't think it's possible to achieve goals just by this law. In the Republic of Croatia, the basis for the right to be elected and to choose is citizenship. And the circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia has citizens who have dual citizenship really complicates this principle. Lists of voters include that citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether they have dual citizenship, regularly report their residence and change of that residence and have absolute awareness of the importance of the act. In order for voters' lists to be neat, it would be worth reporting with every citizen of the Republic of Croatia his residence in the Republic of Croatia and his residence in another country where he lives with Croatian citizenship. I have already said once that the responsibility of the authorities in organising the elections or to prepare legal texts that will allow that responsibility to be consumed. Is it possible to consume the right to control the voter lists if a national of the Republic of Croatia does not have to report a change of residence in another country. And he does not have to report a change in his residence in another country under the applicable regulation. He doesn't even have to report a change in his residence if he moves out of the Republic of Croatia keeps his citizenship. Therefore, I think that when we talk about lists of voters, we should bear in mind that Croatian citizens also have diaspora status, the status of dual citizenship who wish to live in the Republic of Croatia did not exercise this right. The status of dual citizenship that do not want to live in the Republic of Croatia and do not report changes in their residence in a foreign country where they want to live or in another country, all this cannot be solved only by law on voter lists. This may be partially resolved, but in any case it is possible to resolve it by means of an interstate and international agreement. When I say so, I mean that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have their residence outside the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be obliged by international agreements to report their changes to the state where they wish to exercise electoral law, i.e. The Republic of Croatia. It would certainly not have been possible for a citizen of the Republic of Croatia to find himself on two descriptions, two lists, for which he could neither be responsible to say so, although the state is officially responsible. So I am that there is a sober thinking and decision-making and analysis of the adoption of a law on voter lists that will prevent the abuse of electoral rights, and prevent the abuse of a citizen of the Republic has residences in two places. But I suggest that this matter be regulated except by law in the Republic of Croatia and international agreements. In particular, I think there are citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are refugees from Croatia who are refugees from another country in Croatia, such as Serbia-Montenegro from Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries that have residence both in Croatia and in those countries. And the state administration cannot because there is no international agreement to request a list of voters in that other country. But you should be able to. Because it organises elections for the Republic of Croatia. Here is another time I think it is important, it is worth warning that this matter deserves the consensus of all political parties in the Croatian Parliament. Serious reflection and regulation that will protect the fundamental right of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in such a way as not to question and fundamental national interest that citizens have the right to decide on their representatives in the elections. And it's equal law, not with two votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35554	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Szazic. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his word. Whether the applicant's representative wants a final review. Yeah. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35555	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Only three important remarks for easier understanding and reason to propose legislation. And the goal. This text of the law is indeed not written under anyone's and under no impression but precisely a wish and the aim of the electoral legislation and a set of electoral legislation in this country being passed long before the election of any given local, parliamentary and presidential. And that is why we have now given it and proposed for first reading to be aware or in a desire for its adoption to follow a series of other changes or new laws, so I remind myself of the following. That the issue of electoral law cannot be observed only in the context of the law on voter census because it expires and springs from constitutional provisions of the Law on Citizenship, the Law on residence, electoral laws and then, as a technical law, comes the Law on lists of voters. And that, in order to make it easier to understand this law, no one can be denied to reduce or make voting rights more difficult if the Constitution and the law are given to someone. Rather, in a technical sense, he talks about when and who is being included or deleted from the list of voters. Often here in our conversations when we talk about citizens of the Republic of Croatia who call it the diaspora we forget about legal terms that regulate their right. And when their electoral right is neither the Constitution nor any electoral law knows the term diaspora, there is only a category of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have or do not have registered residences in the Republic of Croatia. So only those two categories, and those that have registered residence in the Republic of Croatia, which are found abroad on the day of the election. There is also a need for three types of such electoral lists. The government's proposal in the election law on residence we discussed last week. I hope that we will adopt it as soon as possible and clear the obligation to delete the double-reported residences, regardless of who they are, as well as the possibility for the competent authorities to delete themselves from the census of those who, for any reason, gave false incorrect information, moved or moved out of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The foundation and application of this law will be created. Because when we look at the whole, then I really think it is worth this bill and second reading, regardless of what, as Kovacevic says, there was no heated debate, but I know why. Namely, the HSP Club has never thought of this topic so far, so there could be no heated debate, so counterpart Kovacevic could not even debate the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35556	Proposal for a law on voter lists, first reading. The debate on the bill is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on voter lists proposed by the HNS-PGS Representatives Club is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please engage. Please vote. Score. 69 for, 9 against, 55. So, this proposal was not accepted. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. It would now be on the agenda of item 10, but since we have a notice written that the main state auditor and her deputy are not, if they were outside Zagreb, the day before planned official routes we will move on to this point 11 and 12. So - Report on inspection surveillance carried out in Croatian Radio-Television; - Explanation of HRT's directorship of the identified failures and irregularities identified in the 2003 review report on the financial reports carried out, and the measures implemented to eliminate the same points have come to the agenda because such conclusions have been reached by the Croatian Parliament. So I suggest we have a united debate on these two points with an extended debate time of 20 minutes for club representatives. If the Parliament's okay with it, if you don't mind. Well, then, we'll have an open discussion. In the report on inspection in Croatia, according to the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the State Inspectorate submitted that report. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You've received reports from the session. As regards the second point, the Croatian Parliament's conclusion of the Croatian Board of Directors provided that indication. The debate was also conducted by the Committee on Information and Information and Media. We received the reports at the session. As regards the report on the inspection in Croatia, the broadcaster representative is the Chief Inspector of the State Inspectorate Kruno Kovacevic, and as regards the obvious, Mr Mirko Galić, the head director of HRT, is the representative of this second point. Well, then, I ask first that the Chief Inspector, Mr. Krono Kovacevic, submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35558	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Report on the inspection of the Croatian Radio Television by the State Inspectorate. The State Inspectorate's supervision is a common field of working relations and protection at work. So during October 2004 labour inspectors for work relations, the inspectors of the work protection work of the State Inspectorate carried out inspection surveillance in Croatia's radio-television. In the field of labour relations, the provisions of the regulations governing employment were subject to supervision. And in the field of labour protection, specific working conditions, employer's obligations in the reporting of workers and inspection of work on the death case at work, non-smoking protection and banning alcohol and other means of addiction. The inspections carried out have been established as follows from the field of labour relations. During the inspection period Croatia does its work by operating in four business units, Croatian TV, Croatian Radio, Music Production and Joint Affairs. At the time of the supervision, the employer had contracts to work with 3 thousand 628 workers who were in the registered bodies of pension and health insurance. Out of the total number of workers contracted with 3 000 103 workers, a contract was concluded for work indefinitely, while with 525 workers a contract was concluded for a certain period of time. In addition, the employer used the work of another 5 thousand 679 persons with the same 9,000 752 contracts and as follows. 4000 464 copyright contracts based on the work of a thousand 534 associates. 2 thousand 115 contracts for the involvement of artists based on the work of a thousand 501 associates. 228 contracts on the work of a regular student based on the work of 89 students. A thousand 259 agreements to engage statisticians based on the work of 869 associates. And a thousand 686 contracts for the engagement of Commissioners of Incasator based on the work of a thousand 686 associates. I want to inform you that this is about complex surveillance, extremely extensive documentation and an extremely large number of contracts. The analysis of the contract has established a small number of irregularities that have a characteristic of the offence in the field of labour and labour relations. It is thus in line with the provisions of Article 51. Law on the State Inspectorate and employers and responsible persons of the employer, Mrs Vanje Sutlic and Mrs Maria Nemčić filed a request for the initiation of the infringement procedure for the illegal employment of 14 workers and the illegal participation of 11 persons under 15 years of age in the preparation and performance of artistic stage and other similar works. For your knowledge, a significant number of persons engaged as commissioners or incasators, more precisely a thousand 686 persons for this employer performs the duties of the incasator. That's what they do for a monthly subscription. Based on the contract to engage the Commissioner of the Incasator but without establishing a working relationship. However, since our suspicion that the conduct of these tasks has also been characterised by a working relationship in the rule of part-time in previous supervision has not been accepted by the criminal court, this time we do not move against the employer and the responsible person of the employer to request the initiation of the infringement procedure. As regards the part of the work surveillance and protection work, the official duty control has been carried out and the death of the opiate-emergent employees. In the case of controls, the employer shall not comply with the provisions of Article 68(3). The Labour Protection Act shall convene a meeting of the Committee on Safety at Work and shall not, within 48 hours of the death of the workers to whom it is intended to analyse the causes and propose certain protection measures, resulting in a fundamental suspicion that it has committed the offence referred to in Article 68(3). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the State Inspectorate, and therefore against the employer and responsible person, the employer, shall apply for the initiation of the infringement procedure. Among other things, other than the submission of a request for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure on grounds of fundamental suspicion of the initiation of the offences mentioned by the Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate, he made a decision ordering the employer to convene a meeting of the Protection Committee at work in accordance with the provisions of Article 68. The law on protection of work, and the arrangements to carry out medical work operations with a medical institution or with a specialised facility of private practice in accordance with the provisions of Article 81(1), (2) and (2) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. The law on protection at work. You're parallel to that, so with that death event. In accordance with the provisions of Article 86 of the Treaty, the Commission The Labour Protection Act was proposed by the Ministry of Health and Social Care to determine the exercise of supervision of the professional work of the specialist medical office of Ms. Biserka Horvačić, who issued a certificate of the health capacity of the deceased worker, an employee of Croatian Radiotelevision for work with special working conditions. Here's Mr. President and gentlemen of the MPs, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35559	Thank you very much. I would like the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television Mr. Mirko Galic to submit further, to explain the proposal regarding the indication of the directorship of HRT. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35560	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In the annual reports that I have defended before the Croatian Assembly, the entire business of Croatian Radio Television has been presented, now I am either on the obligation to take note of two concrete examples or two specific topics. One is the State Labour Inspectorate's report and the second is the Croatian Radio Television Directorate's report in connection with the financial audits and irregularities observed and the measures that Croatian broadcasting has taken to ensure that these irregularities are not repeated or removed. In the first case, I would like to express with all caution and the general satisfaction that I think the Chief State Inspector has in his own way motivated the fact that irregularities stemming from non-compliance with all the provisions of the Law on Order have been brought down in several cases. A few individual cases. I'd like to comment on that, too, if I don't say yes. About 500 employees work for a certain time, they are workers who have worked for years without any work contract. About 500 employees have special contracts with their professional associations that enable them to recognise their employment and pension insurance, so almost all rights as well as labour rights. I want to prove by this thesis that this leadership that I represent here in the last few years has mostly regulated the problem, the years-long problem of working on black. But some failures are repeated, some cannot be avoided, and some who are particularly prominent here think that they can be questioned or questioned. First of all, work contracts for 14 people mentioned here. It is about several pensioners who are engaged in short-term business of keeping the property of reporting cars during the recording of individual emissions. We cannot hire special services or people who would have full time for such jobs. These jobs can take a day, two, three, rarely more than that. It's the same thing as printing a phonogram where we can't plan or hire a full-time person. Contributions to pension and health insurance have been paid in accordance with the law so as to dispute that there has been a breach of the provisions of the Labour Act at all. It's the same thing or the same thing about hiring kids. The expression of child employment is very harsh regardless of what is legally founded because it resembles an early capitalist and precapitalistic time when children are engaged in adult work. Here the children are engaged in educational school character shows, therefore appropriate to their age and age and the offence is when it comes to the offence, only in the fact that they are not sufficiently familiar with their parents that consent must be established for and such a type of child involvement. That kind of criticism or guilt I, as an employer, accept and we have done everything possible to ensure that, in future, every child's participation in co-production, on school or educational shows, the provisions of the Law on Child Respect and Children's Work are respected. As for the accident at work in which a tragic case was promoted, I must say it's not a labor accident but a death, unfortunately, our employee's death for drug use. Our services in the house have taken everything that was to be followed, and I think it is difficult to charge anyone in the house for this tragic case, at least to declare him an accident at work because, unfortunately, those under quotes "accidents at work" there are and they are the result of a tragic situation on another ground. With regard to the fact that the Directorate of the Croatian Radio Television has shown the failures and irregularities identified in the commercial audit report, in 2003 I would like to inform again the distinguished Croatian Parliament that the management of Croatian broadcasting is subject to criticism and analysis, the Court of Justice, so the supervision of the audit is first and regularly independent independent audit houses, and by the decision of the Parliament and the applicable laws of each other year the state audit comes. I think audit work helps us to correct the irregularities that are happening in our business and that we can say what is also in the financial audit report and said that irregularities are less and less, but that there are more. There are, and therefore, some are mentioned here, we have responded to them, which cannot be fully predicted by every business store and every business decision in the house that has a day and more than a hundred such decisions and measures. There are some that are unpredictable, which we have faced because of problems in lateness or difficulties with study building, because of the move of our studies to places outside Prisavia, because of some unforeseen difficulties or failures that have occurred and we couldn't respect all the deadlines that the Public Procurement Act requires. However, a violation or failure is not our goal, we are trying, and I think that we have significant success in it, aware of the most necessary, least possible measure, but also then to control that shortcut from getting through some more dangerous things than it is. Our report deals in particular with the VAT issue and the payment of VAT in tax, where our position is justified by the opinion of the profession, that the fee which represents the fee for the possession of the recipient cannot be paid an additional tax as if it were a fee for the service delivered. We believe that this is a legally very firm argument that excludes the VAT issue from any serious debate. Our problems in regular business, which are partly indicated here, arise from that, for example, which is a long-term process that is not just up to us. We're thinking about registering our properties. What is used in regular business is a very old information and business system that does not guarantee with manual work that any business and operations can be properly and done, but I want to inform you that after serious, thorough preparations we have already entered the second stage of preparing a new organisation and a new business-information system. And that will be the technical assumption that will allow safer business and business where there will be less work to audit, and even less for criticism and objections to audit. I would like to thank the Croatian Parliament once again for the attention and inspection of the State Inspectorate on the effort she has made and express my wish, I hope that I am not exaggerating, that others are also being monitored in the same way by other public institutions and in the same way and other televisions that are operating in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35561	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. The first is a respected colleague, Lesar, on behalf of the HNS-PGS Club. He's gone. He's losing his word on this subject. On behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Željko Pavlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35562	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Here you go. I'm reporting on behalf of the IDS Club, and they'll continue with me and Mr. Cain. It is not the first time I have performed on behalf of the IDS, and for further information, today the Međimurje Democratic Union has just registered, so from today on, I am a representative of the IMF here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Here, let me take a few words to look at these reports that were ahead of us. The largest part of my exposure will actually be devoted to the fees, therefore, the fees that HTV also collects from the owners of radio and TV receivers and on the basis of Article 39. HRT law. I can immediately say that I agree with the proposal, therefore, which goes from the principal. To free the basic fee, release VAT charges. For what? So because, at least so far, this VAT has been the case, in most cases it has gone to the burden of taxpayers, i.e. the state had to pay the VAT out of the budget. Therefore, it also raised the issue of political dependence on the budget, i.e. on the current political forces that are in power, their impact on HTV. And first of all, I'd like to take this opportunity to warn you of a problem and appeal for him to get rid of it as soon as possible. We know that, as of a few days ago, the RTV tax increased to 63 kuna. Last year she was 59 kuna, therefore, from a few days or weeks ago she was 63 kuna, which for some of our population groups is a very large monthly amount. Every year, therefore, almost 700 kuna. What's going on in the field, and what would I specifically warn you about? That some inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia are not even able to monitor the HRT programme. These are mostly village residents, so mine are located along the Slovenian border. So it's Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorska, Primorje-goranska, and Istria County. So they're not able to track the HRT program, it's not a direct responsibility of television and radio itself. It's the transmitters and the connections, but it's certain that there must be an HRT intention that all those who want to follow it properly that program. Unfortunately, what's going on? It happens that the legal services of HRT or more precisely, therefore, the law firm Handžeković - Radaković and the partners who therefore have the role to charge the fee and make the debts, regardless of everything and regardless of whether some do not have the possibility to follow the HRT programme under the law are carrying out their work. Well, here's a note for the court order. A gentleman from Bukovac, a village in Međimurje County who also complained and writtenly, therefore, that he could not follow the HRT programme gets a warning before the court's duty-free order for the 6th, 7th, 8, 9th month 2004. Therefore, this reminder with interest and current costs is 248.59 kuna while the cost of this notice is 124 kuna. So nearly 500 kuna are the additional costs of those people who can't actually follow the HRT program, and they have to pay for it. If they do not pay, what follows them is a court case and ultimately a court order. We think that, here, Croatian broadcasting must be carefully processed by this programme because what is most important is that everyone must be equal in their rights, and this is the right of consumers, primarily, right? If we take the program as a product, then what's important is that everyone gets what they pay for. So what he thinks we should get. We think we need to pay attention to these things, and maybe just to announce, so, and the Law that supports and IDS, just in that sense to make a fairer distribution of costs, HRT fees. The Law states that HRT tax is charged at 1.5% of the net salary in the past year, but the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. I'm going with one law, that if the HRT tax is charged 1.5% of the net salary, but calculated by county. It is known, therefore, that our counties do not have the same net wages, that there are significant deviations, from Međimurje County to Istria County. So, we suggest that it's accounted for by county. What's going to happen, there's going to be a fairer distribution of burdens, there's actually going to be the same amount of money, and I'm saying, some people in the county who have less net wages are going to pay less tax. So, for example, in Međimurje County where the average salary is 3 thousand kuna for last year compared to Croatia with 4 thousand and 200. So the subscription would be 45 kuna, wouldn't be 63 kuna. I think this is the same way that HRT also stimulates people to pay their taxes. So, with these concrete suggestions, I end up, so, and I ask Mr. Cain to join in and continue the debate on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35563	The esteemed vice president, the esteemed director, the esteemed gentlemen of the council. For this report, you can say nothing spectacular, nothing special, nothing unusual, regardless of what a misdemeanor case is proposed against Ms. Maria Nemčić and Mrs. Vanje Sutlic. One who, on the other hand, thinks that in one system numbering 9307 employees, minus 1686 incasators, which will say 7621 employees, that there can be no accidental error that simply is naive and so much in my court should not even inspection react to criminal or criminal persecution but rather refer to the fulfillment of some irregularities. Finally in this country that the note of bene is exaggerated, bureaucraticly inconclusive, where one law in collapsing with another to do 100% fine is actually impossible. Finally, in order to justify their mission, inspectors have to get into your company and find something. It's the same as with the cops, don't go back to the station if you don't meet your standard on the road, 5, 10 I don't know how much punishment, but why let people do it? The TV as I see it are some other problems, it's a big system, it's a expensive system, maybe a trom system, 7721 people work on television, citizens pay mandatory subscription, it's speculated constantly in public that MPs are spoiled and that they want to end direct transfers. I am convinced that most citizens are against the abolition of transfers, I am convinced that if this were to happen that would lead to further marginalisation of the Parliament, because then all power would be moved to executive power, Croatian radio and other media. Finally, we will all agree that this House has no power at all, but it is exclusively in the government, in the large capital of Croatian broadcasting clearly to the media, precisely in order to put even the government behind the media. Why? Because the government is also well-transited, and these capital-led institutions are eternal or better said to be eternal. So much for the power of the Parliament right now. The Council of Croatian Radio Television, for example, outlives political change, and that is also good. Editors survive political change, it's normal, directors also then who has power? I don't know, probably not a lot of you, not a single minister will answer, but every head of Croatian Radio Television will, now, when inauguration, say the Parliament, the President of the State, the parliamentary representatives are pushed to the bottom of that Square, and before the Assembly MPs come the directors of Post office, Croatia Insurance, etc., and we are actually their employers. What the IDS advocates, however, is to strengthen the position of parliament and it is indeed not what it should be, and without it other institutions in this country in our court will be weak without it, nor will the state be strong. So much so that what may be the point of our deputies being spoiled so that they need these session transfers, these session transfers need this institution. I agree it costs, it costs those 20 million kunas, but versus 500, 600 million kunas that are coming from the subscription, that's one marginal amount. So if you gentlemen are able to set up or leave a better worded transmission in a way that as so far can be monitored by Croatian citizens, ok, if not let it continue to go on one of the programs because it was finally not necessary to sell the 3rd program. For the end, this Report, I would say no one should be worried, no concern should be given to the Croatian Parliament, no concern should be given to Croatian broadcasting or public, the shortcomings clearly need to be corrected and I believe that it is possible and without criminal charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35564	Thank you very much, dear fellow Cain. On behalf of the HSP Club, dear colleague Pero Kovacevic, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35565	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Director, State Inspector. At the HSP Club, we know that the government, or the ruling majority, wants to take power on Croatian broadcasting because it is obviously dissatisfied. Why do I say this, I say because it is a little strange that we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament a report from the State Inspectorate and an indication of the directorship of Croatian Radio Television. Why do I say that? First of all, we have no doubt in the findings of the State Inspectorate, we know that they are doing this work with professional conscience and quality according to the laws that are in force, but it is a little strange to discuss the procedures that are under way. So we interfere in a certain way in one part of the judicial authority, these misdemeanor proceedings are ongoing, that is, the fact they are ongoing, that it will be brought knowing the misdemeanors would not surprise us to get to an out-of-date. We know for ourselves, here's the latest report, there's been a labour inspection, and most, over 50, 60% of the cases are out of date. It comes out of date. Therefore, this is a bit of an interesting situation, I think it would be far more interesting to discuss, say, the INA, as a public company where far greater machinations are in purchases and campaign financing, and travel costs of INA, such a situation is similar in Croatian forests and others. And the Croatian public would be even more interested in discussing the non-treatment of, say, the State's Attorney's Office and all relevant courts on the implementation of conversion and privatisation, it would be far more interesting for the public to see what was going on and how it was done, and there is still room for a proper debate about all this. So this is, if this is the beginning that we in the Croatian Parliament are going to discuss all public enterprises in this way, then that's okay, but I'm saying that this seems a little bit like one of the attempts to take over power because we know that the ruling majority representatives in the debate were very dissatisfied with the work and reporting of Croatian radio television. We hope that's not the case, but in cases like this, it's the law. The truth of the will is, namely, the situation in the field of media in general and this part that the State Inspectorate pointed out in its report was far worse and on Croatian radio and all other media in the period 2000, 2003, far worse was the situation and there was an attractive inspectorate who managed to do a lot of work and managed to bring the situation as satisfactory as possible, but here we now turn other attention again, which is that the state inspectorate does not think about these cases, but in other cases, in the case of employers of private workers who are really scrutinising workers, and by Sunday work, for the holidays, must be given the authority to finally start taking action, and to prevent that part because the situation is all worse and worse, we know in what situations the workers are in, whether or not the State Inspectorate, whether they report to someone else, that they are going to seek protection of their rights, will come in a situation where they are already given out of notice. That's the thing, we're hoping to discuss tomorrow about our law proposal to the HSP Club. The truth of the will should also be said that Croatia's broadcasting should probably have a little better internal control of its own that these things follow preventively, act and react. Because let's just say I can never go on all teams of different international contracts when we get loans, let's just say to the World Bank I've always found this House of Law Hanžeković-Radaković. They have really infiltrated themselves everywhere in Croatia, let's say remember those various contracts, he says, legal opinions will give these legal houses and 1% to them. We at the HSP Club, just offered to do it for free, so we'll work for free. And now they are, the same house is also in Croatian Radio Television, we know how to make warnings, it is spranca, the name and last name are marked and the account is sent to Croatian broadcasters. So you better do the right, legal, and personnel service because that's the thing, that's the exercise, that doesn't need an executive, that can do 5, 6 people who have finished law school, who have passed a judicial exam and will be far cheaper than what's being done right now. Therefore, it is obvious that this is a little strange that we are discussing this way but I say that there are areas where we really have to react, and I think it is on a good path and Croatian Radio Television, as Mr Galić said, that these things are being reduced to a minimum measure as much as possible, but it is obvious that there must be both shifts and in the work of, say, your personnel services, legally, because this was all meant to go through these filters that they respond in a timely manner and tell the responsible persons, listen, we cannot go in this way, it is a law prevented and other things, because obviously this House Hanžeković-Radaković is just taking money for this part and not very much does not work, you can do it much cheaper and not at the expense of taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35566	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. It's on behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Antun Vujic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35567	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Principal Galic, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here we are now, therefore, in some way completing a process in which the Assembly is concerned and issues that may not be addressed but in view of the highly expressed demands, expectations and politicisation of the public on the subject of HRT, it is no wonder that we are now discussing such things as the inspection report for this house, but certainly not for many other houses, which may also be discussed by the same analogy and where the inspection might also have something to say, including some of the authorities of the state administration that retain titles to be called in one way or another, and there the workers did not get solutions to work in that and that ministry, but still work in some other ministries. There are obviously certain aspects of malacity when it comes to Croatian broadcasting. I fully understand, and I even welcome that this kind of thing is being discussed because the more we know about matter, the more we will see how fundamental solutions are well set up, but unfortunately as long as we are discussing miserly issues, we will not be able to open new issues and build up what started in 2001 and end in 2003 of the Croatian Law on the real elements where it should be upgraded. So if we have charges, if we have a permanent suspect. If we have reports that are strict to this extent, so to speak, the question is whether, by analogy, such things can be found elsewhere, and if we have a situation to discuss until then, of course, those who will defend democracy, the independence of the media, who will defend the autonomy of the journalistic profession within television, may also have to defend what should be reformed, if we therefore accept that we are talking about real problems. In that sense, I must say that since 2001, since the public debate started and since it was adopted, therefore, first one and then the other HRT Act has been in place, there is one unequivocally and in some way publicly established fact, which is that HRT has shown enormous progress and that the situation of a deep internal crisis has come into a situation where, in some way, there is financial business in a perspective and in which there are no expressions of those problems which this Assembly has been witness to, which is to politicise within the television itself on certain bodies that television is related directly to such or such interests, lobbys etc., etc. Perhaps, when we take the right attitude and according to these reports and give support to what needs not to enter into the processes that are currently being conducted and in that the court will say so in an instance or related to this, perhaps we will find ourselves in the perspective of opening a new round of discussions in a quiet time about how to further improve the independence, autonomy, security and perspective of Croatian television. When I read something that certainly hurts the most because individuals are always the ones to be protected, and I think that this House should protect individuals, then not entering the metrics of the findings in which one 6, 7 or 8 points determines what was wrong, I must say that, in my own time, the supervisory board is already composed in a rather representative way of different representatives, different structures on several occasions on several occasions alerted, and also warned that the Law concerning television cannot in all terms be aware of those elements that would not recognise the specificity of the media related to the fact that there, there they would have to say children, that they should be included in some way, that the whole set of elements simply cannot be systemised as it is in the classical way that I say to the company where they can be employed and the worker who is 18 years old and where he is then entering the union or outside of it and outside of the labour law has theserights. These are specific cases and it is a matter of public mind that when there are really no serious abuses and there are no serious damages that occur by individuals they can find a solution. In one perspective, it may be necessary to review these types of situations in which no one is actually present between the debate on the finding of the inspection and the Assembly. We, therefore, want to point out the importance and function of the HRT Council in our own time, which seems to me to have been well affected, less attention and one to say so to the internal structure in which the directorship is actually derived from a single working television norm, and the working television will, while at the same time there is no other mediator between the Parliament and the Directorate who would deal with issues such as financial, such as inspection. Well, she's got to do it, Parliament. And now the Parliament has found itself in my opinion in one strange role, which is that it certainly takes care of the independence of all forms of government in the Republic of Croatia including the judicial authority cannot and should not and should not intervene in what it is about but cannot be expected that individuals, as individuals, do not have an opinion on it. I hope that the explanation given by Mr. Galic as head director of Croatian Radio Television will certainly have and outweighed in terms of the assessment which is the legal measure of what is in some way placed as a violation and as a problem. We also absolutely and fully support this on behalf of the Club, this quote by Mr Galic, who explained where the point is actually in the case of one unfortunate, one unfortunate death on television. I must say that it was also interpreted on the Media Committee and that, in fact, I think even that the dominant opinion was similar to that given today by Mr Galic. I hope that we will finally get over and admit that television, Croatian radio television has taken one huge step lately not to think that everything on Croatia is working and television in the best order and that everything is just the best way it can be. Not at all. But the release of this Parliament to deal with side issues or abuse of certain issues, findings, initiatives, interpretation of what is happening on Croatian radio television will distance us from the possibility that we are really dealing with what might be a common will to succeed, which is the addition of other elements that are needed in one perspective of development that is now well drawn but which should be continued. I hope that all the solutions that this House will eventually be able to have regarding certain initiatives will also go in the direction of seeing the realism of this situation, seeing that television is indeed a public good. I don't know what kind of subjective remarks it would be to do something in one way or another, that it's all just subjective will, and that one trendal movement on television is positive. In that sense, it's actually ambivalent, and our possibilities are what to say about these findings. They have their own flow, but on behalf of the SDP Club, they can say that we support the assessment and the evidence that is related to this inspection, inspection report given by Mr Mirko Galić as head director of HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35568	Thank you, dear colleague Vujic. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Luka Roic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Director, Mr. Inspector, or gentlemen of fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. Here is another way of dealing with our Croatian Radio Television because we have before us a report on the inspection of Croatian Radio Television and an indication of the directorship of the failures and irregularities observed in this report. All of this is visible from this, all of this visible from this report we here in the Croatian Parliament have detected at least some of them and warned the directorship in their evaluations of the report submitted. For a long time, on behalf of HSS, I have somehow been monitoring the work of Croatian Radio Television. I can conclude that business from year to year is getting better as confirmed and from all those who have shown themselves about this report. Irregularities are, in some ways, less and less. Is this due to the directorship or perhaps greater concern and awareness of national property should not be so clearly determined here, but it does not really matter. The result is important. I'm also afraid to think that this report actually serves as a latent threat to keep the principalship in some kind of obedience. There's always that card out of the sleeve, and that's paying the VAT if, by any chance, they don't listen to it the way it's supposed to. So I'm afraid of going back to the old times when it came to Pantovčak, and today some say the Ban Courts. I am concerned about the fact that the inspectors in the field of working relations did not encounter any major irregularities except, which is for 14 persons an apparent contract was concluded on the work, and it was necessary to conclude a contract of work in writing and report them to the competent authorities of pension and health insurance. There are still 11 minors who do not have prior approval of the labour inspector. That's what the headmaster answered about it here, too, and I don't think there's anything to add. In the field of protection at work, it says that the employer did not inform about the death of his employee, suggesting that the employee died of an injury at work, and everyone knows that death occurred, and Mr. Chief Director spoke of it openly from this pay phone. There are no, there are no sensational discoveries here or there are many faiths in some new discovery, and I am bothered as a parliamentary representative by another thing that is not the subject of this report but I always want to repeat that on HRT a contract was concluded on work with 3628 workers who are registered to pension and health, and of which 3100 workers have a contract indefinitely and 525 on indefinitely, for a certain period of time. In addition to its employees during the period between two inspections, Croatian Radio Television concluded 1550 contracts of work. They're mostly performers. In addition to the performer’s associates, 5679 persons contracted with 9752 contracts are employed. In this number of contracts, there may be 14 errors that don't have to be the right number. Because the inspection was working on the pattern method. In addition to so many HRT employees, I always point out, but they keep taking new employees, and the inspection doesn't have to know because it's not the subject of their detour that there are journalists who often do not do their work for which they are paid, and do not work not by their own fault, but often because of human relations because there is often someone on Prisavlje who has given himself the right to take HRT as his private property which is certainly not good. There are too many of them in our grade and new employees are often educated abroad and in these post-school staffs often go on commercial televisions without anyone asking who paid for it and who's going to pay the bill for it? Citizens who settle this neatly, whose home addresses arrive for a couple of unpaid subscription cards from law offices and with costs that are often higher than debt unfortunately are in an unfavourable position. They have to pay their share, and they can complain to the consumer association and make it easier for the soul only. Television and its members often use their own television for their own promotion, and our goal was to continue reforms towards public and television to stop commercialising it. However, I must make clear here that reform towards public television has done a lot in this respect, but there is a need to persist which is not easy, which is all the process and does not go through the night because the problem is often in our heads. I must also say openly here that still on public television there are taboo topics that have not been easily heard before, that there are also affairs being discovered and that we are finally less and less aware or less aware of the fact that our information shows are not starting with topics from the Ban Courts and Pantovac as they used to be. As long as the journalists don't call themselves their watches, we're on the right track because the journalist must always be in latent conflict with politics and politicians in order to break down democracy. In addition to its informative role, the journalist has control that is often more important to me. We have recently witnessed an affair that has shaken our public and is being censored by Latina. We are here fighting for public television for free word, for free journalism, but unfortunately some journalists and editors don't even know what to do with their freedom, of course, journalistic and self-censorship the young journalist's office even though it's a little tense, because the recording ban came as we hear from the Ministry of the Interior. But here's what I'm going to believe is that the editor, on his own, censors the contribution and only testifies that there are always journalists who can abuse their position. Politics and censorship on Croatian radio television cannot be avoided, because unfortunately there are always non-professionals who have won in advance do not need to win them are always ready to report the white flag. The contribution of Latina, as we heard, passed the legal service, Croatian Radio TV despite this show being censored. The government must allow public media independence and freedom and otherwise violate international standards by sending bans from the interior ministry. Every ban is a violation for every democratic society and every ban creates a counterproductive effect and tickles the public's curiosity. Such dishonesty is confirmed by both coalition and all other authorities who were right when they advocated competition and the opening of media spaces and freedoms. The bigger the competition, the better and the greater the chance for democracy, because someone will always declare the truth because as the people say, if they lie to a goat, they don't lie to a horn. I therefore hold my biggest suspicions in this report that the discipline of Croatian radio television is due to the already mentioned VAT, and thus public television can always be held in a way in a stalemate position. The findings of Croatian inspection radio television are required to remove and the responsibility is to initiate a procedure for determining responsibility. The report proposes the establishment of a dress regulations commission, apparently the floods of commissions that greatly affected them in our Assembly. Because if I don't want to solve the problem, they say set up a commission. The only thing that shows is that even at lower levels, the rule of law does not work the way it should. The directorship of Croatian Radio Television has been shown to be showing failures, and irregularities, a commercial audit report also carried out a review of the financial reports for 2003. Against the tax solution issued, the Croatian Radio Television submitted a complaint stating the reasons for not calculating VAT or charges. With regard to certain weaknesses and irregularities in the implementation of the public television law of the Regulation on the procurement of goods, works and services of small value, the business decision of the management structures of Croatian Radio-Television has not been established in advance, according to the director's office responsible. It is already a consequence of the production and broadcasting of the radio or television programme itself, The management also argues that irregularities are the result of non-implementation of the provisions of the Regulation on procurement procedures but above all of the failure of internal controls and supervision in business and financial operations and activities. The Croatian Radio-Television Directorate has made provisions and certain implementing conclusions in order to eliminate observed irregularities, weaknesses, in the procedures of applying the provisions of the public procurement law. Here, as I said, there is obviously nothing new that would change our view that despite certain irregularities, the situation on Croatian television is really improving from day to day. And that is why we will accept the directorship's report on the inspection supervision of Croatian Radio Television and in some way give support to both administration and those managed by Croatian Radio Television for further successful work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35570	Thank you, colleague Rojic. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first in line is a respected colleague, Krunoslav Markovanovic. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. There is a respected colleague, Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's next, dear colleague Kramarić. He's gone. A leprosy of speech on this subject. And it's time for my dear colleague Frano Piploic. And he can stay. He's got a right to his 10 minutes. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35571	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This is what the director of a public institution looks like when it is debated in parliament by the state and also by a local assembly on the report of its employees, for example for a period past means it acts in a humble, humble, patient manner. We listen to these remarks as our director of our television Mr. Mirko Galić does. The director is in such situations always in some awkward situation receiving clearly patient criticism and remarks about what the employees were doing, but also when something good is receiving him and commending him. However, because of his single gentlemanly relationship, he will never be commended but clearly distributes praise to his employees. I'm like this one fine little introduction made to say what I was actually going to say. The main thing is that we are discussing Croatian television here is these two reports, and I don't think, based on these two reports, we can bring some of our hard-core court on Croatian television. We cannot say that these reports make us content or dissatisfied with her in some way. These two reports I'm going to get you two reports that you're going to find with any company of this kind. TO be a failure that is in some way regular monitoring of the business of organising such a complex system as television. Furthermore, television is a very specific system, and everywhere in the world you have outside associates, and everywhere you have people you occasionally engage. There's also a g-contract gap, and usually officials don't, and sometimes they want to take a little piss so they don't pay any taxes to the state or anyone else. But I don't think it's ever been some basic intention to do some big, big evil. The basic question is to ask yourself if such failures were as much as those failures took part in the product. How much they affected the product. The basic product of television is the program. If there was no damage to the program due to such failures, then I think we should take them well on purpose and not make any big noise about these things. When I took the word, I would say two three things that I would like to say on behalf of the people I meet and who perceive Croatian television through programs. I'll take two examples. Let's say fresh, one is an example of the show Mr. Stankovic had a month ago when Mr. Bukovic was a guest of the show, the theme was, on Sunday at 2:00, I think, the topic was medically assisted insemination. Clearly, his guest could express whatever he wanted and clearly I am many of the attitudes, and the citizens of many of whom I have spoken disagree with, say, Mr. Bukovic's views where he put, for example, the Bible as a medical book, etc., etc. My colleague Stankovic, in my opinion, also made a mistake and in the opinion of the people I spoke to, for example, did not prepare enough. It turned out that at the end of the day, Mr Stankovic, for example, offended the feelings of many, many citizens who hold to the Bible as sacred books, etc. So let's say that's one example of how people perceive through certain emissions of production, or television. Another example we had on Easter alone. I spoke to some citizens that they had not long ago had such a beautiful television diary that Mr Milic, for example, made one, a Easter diary that had everything to have, and it was informative and was also thematic. You could've gotten a series of positive shifts in that journal, you could've gotten some hope, so it's not all black around us. And that there's a lot of black, so I guess the editor is there to thematically pick out what would be convenient on that day, etc. These are let's say let's say two pictures as part of the people with whom neighbors perceive, say, a television program. There are clearly other shows I don't want to talk about here right now. Let's just say one more remark. That's why I'm giving it to Mr. Galic in public. Often people resent television when it comes to translations, that it is not so literally translated in some films, for example, some English words or words of a foreign language, especially those that are a little more lascivious, more primitive, words that are simple, let's say conditionally, why we just have to translate them into our juicy language variants. It's not about a piece of art so that in some way it's like to mutilate art by actually being able to function as an art, it's about a simple show or a movie that has more than one consumer, fun character. But it somehow leaves a picture of Croatian television as a public service of citizens. And here's the end I'd like to say one more thing, which is not about Mr Galic, but we could, for example, think about all of us together, or we in the Parliament about that, about the fee, about the television subscription as the fee that citizens pay. I clearly agree that this television subscription should be a public award. But what the impact of me as a citizen, me as a listener, me as a viewer, do I actually have any influence on this program if I'm already giving these public contributions, I'm giving that money. Then you should think about it, because people don't actually know how often television is funded, but if he gives his 50 or 60 kuna he thinks he should have some influence. His influence when that money ends. We've had recently that because of a television subscription, I recently told the Assembly speaker that the man's performance on the neighbor's car had come, etc. I'm not saying it has nothing to do with television and Mr. Galic, but in some way in this game, the ruthless in Croatian television public space is still beautiful on the face of Croatian television, and the founder of Croatian television is the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament has the same responsibility for this Croatian television, not Mr. Director and other producers of the programme. That's how much, I've narrowed my own little observations down to one short, short few words really in good faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35572	Thank you very much, dear colleague Piplojic. It's my friend Lesar's turn with a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, I'll have a short replica. Namely, he said in his statement that he was interested in this report as much as possible in the failure of influence on the product, so television or radio. I think the Parliament has its own representatives that we have chosen or have chosen to oversee and control both the management and the programming part and manage most of Croatia's broadcasting. If we continue this way in a month, two of us will probably have on the agenda a report on the sanitary examination of HTV, sanitary inspections on the state of the sanitary node, fire inspections, municipal and perhaps forestry. I think we're really coming into a pointless situation if we keep going on like this, that these topics and reports are special points of the Parliament's work. Or if that's what we want, then all of our representatives who have been selected for both software and surveillance in terms of HTV management are withdrawn, so we directly do that part of the job as parliamentary representatives. That's what I wanted to say, and I believe we'll never get, say, a sanitary report at a debate in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35574	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35575	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I think fellow Lesar or you didn't want to understand me or you can't understand me. I really spoke in good faith because I've eaten the bread of workers in the media my whole life. So I said really in good faith. And the fact that we have the bodies elected and the people delegated to the council doesn't take away from me as a parliamentary representative the possibility of me saying what I'm saying. And I did say it in good faith. And I'm sure these failures that were recorded here didn't affect the program. And that was the basic intention of what I said and I'm not looking for any head, but I said that as a Parliament and citizens, we are interested primarily in the program, the quality of the program, and for that it's responsible, I didn't say that the program is unquality, I just said that people are perceptivating that program.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35576	Thank you very much. It's time for my dear colleague Pavilic. You're pulling. Thank you very much. Dear colleague of Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35577	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director, Mr. Inspector, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try to take this topic to a little bit more sidetrack that's not particularly interesting to the general public I trust all of us here, but for me like, for a person who, who comes from cultural circles is important, is vital and there seems to me in some way touching points with these reports. I will remain on term irregularity, although this irregularity may not be the subject of an inspectorate but rather the subject of a single moral category and it is an injustice. We all remember that a few years ago the idea started, I don't know from who anymore, about ending the 3rd program of Croatian Radio. And we all remember that a large part of the public, the most cultural public, had been put on their backs, petitions were being written and interviews were being done and the idea died in some way, no one ever talked about abolishing, the 3rd program of Croatian Radio Thank God and today it lasts. However, I don't know how many of you know that the external co-workers of which, I would say 85 or 90% of the Croatian Radio programme consists of the programme of Doctors of Philosophy, university professors, musicians, theatrelogists, writers, prominent painters etc. So I'm free to say the cream of the intellectual elite of ours and who, for one contribution of, say, an hour, an hour and a half of speech shows, might be garnered with music or not, get a fee of 300 to 350 or a maximum of 400 kuna. Of course, the inspection can't talk about it because the fees are a matter or an internal agreement between editors and authors or some kind of savings that is always on the radio far more rigorous than on television, but I would simply ask myself publicly on behalf of all those colleagues who with a lot of heart, emotion, traditions and what, continue to participate in that same third programme for 300, 400 kuna. I would wonder if their work, intellectual work, their colleges, their titles are everything they carry themselves as an intellectual luggage, is it a hundred times less valuable than what some people on television who are called Lokas or Ogrest and I have no idea who, who are running the supposedly very popular shows that everyone is watching, and the third program of Croatian Radio nobody listens except for a little intellectuals. I'm curious to know why this radio is so much less valuable, and believe me, there's been a lot more intellectual effort in these shows than in some on television, and yet we're all talking here today only about television because it's presentable and whoever didn't show up on TV doesn't exist. The fact is that the third programme of Croatian Radio today in media space may be the only true cultural oasis. The fact is that the names involved by external associates in this programme are truly top intellectuals of Croatia and the fact is that they are deep or fat or whatever you want are underpaid by any people who come practically from the road to television, become stars, make managerial contracts and then no one can stop them anymore, they are popular, and these other writers, artists, painters, musicians, theatrelogists, musicians and I don't know who else is happy with their 300, 350 kuna because there they can still talk and say something that they may not be able to publish anywhere else, given the quantity and the quality of our magazines for culture. I said at first it is not strictly related to this topic, this report and the revision, but in fact my question has been addressed to Mr Galic, who is as director and television as much as the radio, who has known the value of this third programme in himself for years, for decades. He actually said I would have the strongest and most beautiful tradition of culture in this medium, and the fact is that there is more and more sprawling on it as if in a certain way the intellectuals who participate in these programmes were punished because the third programme was still held after the great halabuca. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35578	Thank you, dear fellow Mayan. It is next, dear colleague Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35579	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. When I saw that in a relatively short period of time we were discussing financial reports, and it was more than once that of Croatian broadcasters that I had the idea that in the report I would find that on HRT it would be like Jack the Ripper or some other criminal person, but with great pleasure I saw that there was nothing in this whole finding that would be a serious offense or God's crime, yes. Infractions exist, they will be prosecuted one way or another, but if it weren't really anything that would pop out of those standards that we recognize in almost all major companies. However, according to this report, I would say that Croatian broadcasting is quite exemplary. The question of all the questions raised and closely related to what Mrs Martincevic was saying and what I am deeply agreeing with is the question of the Croatian Broadcasting Programme, especially the third programme which has grown to me as much, is the question of what Croatian Radio Television is for and what sources of funds are being collected for Croatian Radio Television. The whole stone of interference has been for a long time, that unfortunate VAT. This House as a legislator should definitely cut the story by my court and thereby remove all these speculations about how this VAT is being manipulated in some way by the administration to stick to a thin leash or not to stick to a thin leash and my proposal is, in particular, the ruling side of this Parliament to definitely remove this issue from the agenda by means of an appropriate legislative proposal and, of course, I plead that it is not talking about VAT, i.e. that it is clearly said that there is no VAT subscription. The second thing is the commercial activity of Croatian broadcasting, which, like any other business entity, VAT must go to. And there's a solution that we can say okay by. He's got VAT, but then we need to know it's all costing. If I want to have a third program of Croatian Radio, if I want to have movies, if I want to have opera, if I want to have what I particularly care about a lot of Croatian music, a lot of Croatian composers, performers, opera and everything else, sports, domestic sports, then we need to know that it costs. If we take 22% of the VAT from Croatia, we must find another source for this or the program will not be. Of course, different savings are possible, but that is something, savings should work with VAT and without VAT, and it is the duty of every reasonable economist, and I believe that Mr Galic is, therefore, that those costs that are not necessary and rational to be reduced in some way. Since here is actually the topic of the agenda of the report, and not the debate on the programme, I would say that for some way I would like to express my satisfaction with the report because I think it clearly shows that there are no serious gaps on Croatian broadcasting as it has been speculated in some circles and that it is about a house that operates in normal gauges. I would also, of course, always be very prepared to discuss the programme and always express my desire for as much scientific, cultural, high-level sports programme as possible, and also for such level of financing of Croatian broadcasting that will allow it to differ more from commercial television than it is today. I mean, of course, as few of those I don't like, maybe someone likes them, from a variety of soaps, bad movies, overrepeated reprieves, but which are actually part of the competition, and we need to be aware of that, and if we provide Croatia with independent and stable sources of funding, then the need for such compromises will probably not be. Here, therefore, is my proposal to accept the report and the explanation that Croatia's broadcasting has just given us on its business and to consider resolving the issue of financing, in particular the VAT issue quickly and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35580	Thank you, dear colleague Josipovic. Do your colleagues want to take the final word? A colleague of Kovačević? No, I don't. A fellow Gaul? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on these points of the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35581	Report on inspection work carried out in Croatian Radio-Television. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The report on inspection surveillance carried out in Croatia is hereby accepted. Please engage. Please vote. Score. 79 for, 21 abstention, 4 against. Accepted conclusion with this result. That's another conclusion. I am giving the vote the conclusion, taking note of the fact that the Croatian Directorate of the Authority has shown the failures and irregularities identified in the 2003 Report of the commercial audit of the financial reports carried out. Please engage. Please vote. Score. With 94 votes for, 8 abstentions, 3 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35606	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - The report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the legal authority of the Report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the working bodies: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35607	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Government. Since I seem to be the only one on behalf of the club I still have to say something about this report. Namely, the position is the HSS, and I will repeat it that indeed no one is thinking about taking power from the government to take over the legislative initiative at a time when the Croatian Parliament is not sitting. That's what the former government did, that's what the government did before our government, of course this government has the right to do. What's a little bit of a problem with that report, I'm going to tell you first about the regulation amending the bankruptcy law. Of course it was meant to be a regulation like that. The former government adopted such a regulation at a session, which was the last session of our government held on 11 December 2003. The regulation was valid until the end of 2004, and indeed in a substantive sense it represented something that was good, which allowed workers to be in the bankruptcy process in the first payment order. The reason for this government is that a new bankruptcy law is being prepared, and we feel that it really needs to be finally seen by the Croatian Parliament. This kind of bankruptcy law that we have is not good, and I want you to, I hope, to agree, that we all see it on these benches as soon as possible. But I must say another thing, that the government had time, so all the time in 2004 finally to submit, to the Croatian Parliament, the bankruptcy law or at least such an amendment. I hope that we agree that, indeed, workers, given the social situation they are in, and we know just what the situation is for those in whose companies, companies run bankruptcy procedures, should still be allowed to be in the first headline, if that is the political position of the Government. However, it really bothers us little that we haven't received at least this amendment of the Law here as a proposal for a year, but we are being sent a report on a Regulation that, with the legal force that the Government has adopted and now, of course, is in a situation to decide again by a regulation instead of a law. Secondly, I want to say one more thing. A regulation that is actually quite important in that context is a regulation supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. You know, only government officials have no right to those 0.5% year-on-year salary increases of 20% for each year of work. We also know that these rights were first made possible by the Croatian Parliament, and then by continuing to extend the same regulation to judicial officials. We know that the situation in courts is difficult, that these people really need to be further stimulated, even this way, that they have a slightly higher salary. However, the justification for not having enough resources in the State budget seems to me that it is not enough and that the Croatian Constitution should simply be respected. It is not disputed that there is a tridivision between the authorities and between legislative, executive and judicial, but they are in line with the Croatian Constitution. I think that the state officials on that, whatever anyone of course thinks about it, are put in an unequal position and I think that this Regulation is, in a substantive sense, anti-constitutional. However, no matter what, this report can be accepted or not accepted. This is a fake and the Croatian Peasant Party Club will, of course, accept this report because it cannot be changed. It is a suggestion to the Government not to extend such a regulation further, in particular the Regulation amending the bankruptcy law because there is not a single valid reason for that. And secondly, to finally decide what to do with those 0.5%, whatever anyone thinks about it because we consider such a law, that is, such a regulation in a substantive sense to be unconstitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35608	Thank you very much, dear colleague Vresk. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, respected counterpart Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35609	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The regulations are, we know, that they serve to bridge a certain gap in Parliament's work and by the nature of things they are, that power is rarely used, and the rarest it should be used by my court and by the Court of Justice of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the government has indeed followed that spirit, therefore, has not been exaggerated and there are no too many of these regulations or may be in relation to the terms of the bankruptcy law, except for some interventions that may still be the subject of debate in this Parliament at the end of one day. Although, here, the bankruptcy law will be. What is raised to me as a question or as a problem to the government's representative concerns the fact that certain regulations of previous years have been somewhat consolidated, let's just say, some of the infringements, and that this has not been done now. This resulted in some misdemeanors and some of my more questions and curiosity as to whether it was a thought-out policy or simply forgetting the fact that some of the offences were covered by the law or not. I think if that is what was thought to follow that intensities that go along with breaking legislation, that the government should be excluded as an entity that is authorized to prescribe violations. But on the other hand, there are some violations that should then be considered to be regulated by the law because it seems that some relationships should be regulated at a breaking level. Finally, not by prolonging too much, the recommendations and wishes of the SDP Club are that regulations are being applied as little as possible and that more or more or more, or whenever possible sensitive, particularly sensitive issues are being addressed in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35610	Thank you very much, colleague Josipovic. It's my dear fellow Stazic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. It's my friend Leko's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. It's my turn, but for objective reasons, I'll withdraw my application. That's why we've exhausted all the people we've reported from our applications. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this subject, or we will vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35611	Fifth, Report on Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 87 votes for, 3 abstentions and 25 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35612	We move to the next item of the agenda, - Final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 242, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The work-body report doesn't matter that we haven't even discussed it. The government hasn't delivered its report. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an explanation? Yeah. The word has a colleague, Josipovic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35613	Here we go again, very briefly. The proposal is the result of the SDP's wish to end in this Parliament those very rough debates and procedures related to mutual accusations, insults and the like, with a very negative impact on Parliament's work, and I would even more like the reputation of all of us in the public. That is why, according to the example of how this was done for some other labour, business obligations, the assets of SDP representatives, the SDP Club Committee proposes that data relating to the acquisition of conflict of interest should also be provided to those concerned in the way of obtaining movable and immovable property and be part of the application. We propose this once again in good faith, in our interest it seems to us that all political representatives and professions as such because we believe that by formalising the way this issue is addressed from this scene and from this assembly we will throw out a lot of the dirty water that is needlessly worth this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35614	Thank you, dear colleague Josipovic. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, dear colleague Zlatko Tomcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35615	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The fundamental objective of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is without any doubt to prevent public duty from becoming some sort of polygon for personal breakthroughs or for material benefit. In a law that is in force to prevent conflicts of interest that we are supplementing by this law, except for some general definitions and provisions that can be interpreted which are never really good, the Law is first and foremost declared in Article 6 which clearly speaks of prohibitions that a public official cannot, according to the banned actions of officials. It is prohibited for officials to act as follows: Under a) to accept or demand the benefit or promise of benefit for the purpose of carrying out their duties. ( b) Realising or obtaining the right in the event of breach of the principle of equality before the law. c) Infringement of the special rights of officials arising or necessary for the performance of their duties. d) To receive additional compensation for public duties. E) Ask to accept, or receive a value or service to vote on any matter or to influence the decision of a body or person for personal breakthrough or breach of a connected person. ( f) Promise employment or any other right in exchange for a gift or promise of a gift. g) Impact on obtaining public procurement jobs. h) Using privileged information on the functioning of the national authorities for personal breakthrough or breach of the connected person or in any other way, etc. It is very interesting that, in the implementation of this Law, the current media attention of political, wisdom and planting, which something and a representative of the promoter said about a possible conflict of interest, in fact, has been affected by the point of Mr. This Act to obtain jobs or public procurement, and it is largely being discussed and, in the end, led by some official commissions here in the Assembly. I don't think that's good, I don't think it's possible for the point of Mr. in Article 6, of course it's possible to sanction it, but I think it's completely unwarranted. Why? For a very simple reason, when you analyse the point of Mr. every official who dares to commit a violation of this law is in permanent danger because his contract and his conduct are always visible. If anything suspicious is easy to verify, the written traces remain, and the official of the company, the company of the capital, as well as the state or local authorities as a rule of local some institutions. And not only that, at present, in the event of any doubt, it is easy to check because there are written clues, but these written clues remain for a number of years and it is always to check, so this point Mr. We're talking about, it is being checked after 3 years, 5 years, and it's always easy to prove because there are written clues whether or not something has been done or whether there has been a conflict of interest or not. In the case of other prohibited activities pursuant to this Article 6, except for point d. which is equally exact, it says to receive additional compensation for public duties conduct operations, it is also quite accurate. There are no leads on the other of these prohibited activities, as a rule, and this is actually the main problem with the application of Article 6 of the conflict of interest law. It is very easy to analyze these remaining banned actions of officials to conclude that, in fact, all other things other than the point of Mr. and d. can happen behind the public's curtain, there are no written clues, are promised in four eyes, things are exchanged under tables, people are hired, travelling by other people's planes and ships, using other people's cards, using privileged information is generally not recorded anywhere, there is no contract about it, and it seems to me that this is a very important element of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Where are the leads left? Traces remain exactly on what can be fed by the benefit of conflict of interest, on property, mobile and immovable, traces remain on the quality of life, someone can live very luxuriantly which is not normally recorded, someone can have an immoderately large property that is recorded and what should prove what is really the intensity of this Law regardless of whether it is mobile or immovable property. But the question is, you know, when we talk about these clues in terms of movable and immovable property and the quality of life, whether these clues, whether they can be manipulated, whether they can be subjectively evaluated, for someone is one measure, for another is another measure, and therefore there must be very clear criteria for assessing what a man might have as a result of conflict of interest. These days or a month ago, we witnessed an almost incredible event in this House when it was suspected that the current prime minister might be in conflict of interest, which was reportedly reflected, according to the motion at the time, by receiving a large amount of money in terms of eligible for some credit if I remember a good topic, it happened that in this House the revote decided not to question it. It's something that's inadmissible when it comes to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. And by applying these rules that were applied to this House by revote, it is in fact that most of us can decide not to give ours and we will attack others. So whether we attack just because we really prove to them that you were in conflict of interest or that they were long exposed to the public, to the media, so that in the end these days with some Committees, just because the public was burdened with it and of course certain people were eliminated as possible political competition. Now, for this very reason I'm talking about what these traces of property exist and why are there no traces of written materials, contracts, etc., is this law good? He's just talking about every official having to prove the origin of his property. Not that he has to prove it, but he has to present the origin of his property. However, in this law, according to the understanding of the HSS Club, there are some gaps, regardless of what is absolutely accurate, good, and whatever we as the Club will accept this absolutely because this is certainly an improvement compared to the situation so far. One very small correction in Article 7a, paragraph 2, not only on its property but on the property of the persons concerned, if this is the case with each other, it seems to me that the related persons would be welcome here. But I'm saying it's a technical correction. But here's the second question. The Proposer of these amendments and additions proposes that sanctions against those who violate the Law of Conflict of Interest actually do not change anything but that the sanctions provided for in Article 19 of the basic law apply. Those sanctions, I'd say if we wanted to be serious, if we wanted this law to have serious consequences are almost ridiculous. Those sanctions are provided for in paragraph 1 that the official will make a written statement containing the consent to be carried out under the conditions laid down in this Act before the Commission, etc., the duty to declare that, at the invitation of the Commission for the most severe forms of infringements which are not defined, that the most severe forms of infringements are to be offered by the body designated by the official to that function. And now the first question is, who are we going to resign to? There is no body he has appointed us, our representatives. For members of the government, there are other officials, but there is none for us. It is not possible for us to pass a law that cannot be applied to us. It could be some kind of moral obligation to resign, but there's no body, there's no one to resign. The second part of the sanctions provided for in this Article 19 is I would say for serious application of this Act, and if we really want to be serious and to return some of the fallen trust is ridiculous, it's ridiculous. The penalty of, in the original text was 100 – 3000, after the first amendments and the addition of the law we increased it to 3000 – 5000 from personal, from pay, and that's the whole story. What will happen to those who will not properly comply with the provisions of the amendments and additions and will provide false information about the origin of their property? What's gonna happen to them? That's the key question. Therefore, this Law does not provide for any punishment, no new punishment for those who will give false, or false data for the origin of their property. And I just think that by the second reading, the proposer has to predict, he has to think about how to sanction this possibility. One option I suggest is very rigorous and at the cost of changing the constitution that an agent who loses the status of counsel, loses, amen. I am aware of the fact that this cannot be done only by amending this Law, it requires a change of the Constitution because our mandate is intolerable. But let's think about whether or not we want to restore the reputation we lost. And for what we've lost him, for the sake of indiscipline, because here and through this law some possibilities of sanctioning are bypassing us, we have no one to resign from, is there? Let's install a once-in-a-lifetime possibility that, for the harsh violation of the provisions of this Act, a parliamentary representative loses his mandate. If that is not possible, if it is not possible, if the applicant considers that it is too complicated to try through intervention in criminal law. Let us foresee in criminal law parallelly, alter this one article, and parallel to another reading of this Law that false declaration of your property is a serious crime with no possible punishment very high. So we are going to go against ourselves once to be rigorous enough to prove that we do not just want to manipulate each other's accusations, but that we really want to be completely clean in front of the Croatian public and completely clean. I have to say that I will be extremely disappointed if these suggestions of mys I do not know in which way the proposer does not accept for another reading, the law is an emergency procedure but the proposer can give up an emergency procedure, it can be prepared for another reading, I think these suggestions that I'm talking about deserve that attention to go to another reading and predict punishment precisely for, therefore, sanctions precisely for what in this, these amendments and additions are not foreseen. So, for a false declaration, above all parliamentary representatives, it certainly applies to all state officials. I believe that the Proposer will accept this suggestion, or perhaps in the context of this reading, he will find some sort of solution with his own amendment, which will take into account the need to sanction what is not sanctioned so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35616	Thank you, dear colleague Tomcic. We're moving on to an individual discussion. First of all, the esteemed colleague, Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35617	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35618	I apologize to my colleague, Leko, for the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed colleague Tomljanović has.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35619	Dear Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of the esteemed Mr. Tomcic, who literally reads like this, quote: "In this House, the revote recently decided whether or not to decide on a conflict of interest.". This is not an exact allegation, in this House it was recently decided whether to form an investigative commission which is different and falls under a completely different law, so it is two different laws, one is the Law on Investigation Commissions, and the other is the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which is now on the agenda and in terms of the intelligence of the Assembly Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35620	Thank you very much, fellow Tomljanović. Come on in, pal. Here you go. Here you go, finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I must say that I am almost reluctant to participate in the debate on amendments and amendments to the law on preventing conflicts of interest. Why? So when I studied this Law in a superficial way, I thought it was a Roman rule, not to be judged by the laws, but by the laws. But when I met with that law, the law really has a lot of contradictions. One of the contradictions or illogicalities has already been mentioned by fellow Tomcic. Indeed, it is in Article 19. The law stipulates that officials, therefore, covering this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in advance, will give a statement in advance that they will resign when the qualification of conflict of interest determines that the commission is of a difficult nature. Nobody did that. It's naked, naked straight. It's an imperfect legal norm. There's no sanction for that. If someone doesn't. That's naked right there. Behind that first impression, I called for help, for example, the second principle of the same Roman law, says that the one who does what the law forbids is acting against. And the Romans immediately add smartly, but the whole law is played by one who does not respect his spirit and meaning. I begin to seek meaning in the law and then find that this should be to discuss conflict of interest always before the public because really conflict of interest is not a formal conflict with the law. A conflict of interest is a conflict with morale in a society. And then the law explicitly says that committee sessions, committee sessions are closed to the public. And that's the rule that you can't argue about her. I still think we can get through those provisions, I say well, we'll call the meetings of the representatives of the bodies in which the officials act or have appointed them or elected them, or we'll call those who file an application or something because the law says: the commission can only have an investigation in its own direction. And the notion of an investigation everywhere in the world, and even in our society, he really doesn't think, is not appropriate that he can work seven members of the commission. It just doesn't, it doesn't stand there. So I decided to talk about this on the amendment and addition of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. My opinion is that the scope of this Law is about to formulate, that the trust in the tools it has, the legal means and legal possibility in its good faith, in its good intention to inform the body and the official that it considers to be in conflict of interest and to support it with its reasons, and that is the greatest range I see. My humble view that if we punish the official, we've only qualified him to be an officer in conflict of interest. We didn't do anything to justify it to the public. The point of the public knowing that someone is in conflict of interest and in what this conflict is all about. But in order not to go back, I think it's up to the law and practice. And the law and practice, and by my court, is a contribution that the public has a better insight if officials, along with their application of the state, the property at the beginning of the term of office and at the end of the term of office, describe their assets or give information about how they acquired it. The increased responsibility, and indeed it exists in the officials, imposes such an obligation on the official. Why would he impose that? According to my impression, the public expects the commission to engage, and this is the main conflict of interest as privatisation has taken place in the Republic of Croatia. The most common question of people is do you think you can examine how privatized banks are? I'm saying it doesn't belong to our detour. We can't, we don't have tools. And that we have other state bodies. We wouldn't turn into a commission, as it used to be,... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The control committee. That's what they taught me at school. The control committee was called. So it's not possible, but if we get the support of both the Parliament and the public and if we create standards, standards that would be worth the work of the commission and all of us, I think the public and we all would benefit if day-to-day control were our moves, our moves, possible day-to-day control and the daily debate on some body's moves. Here's my sighting. So this is a new element that will allow the public to have a better, better insight into the behaviour of officials, but I think we should open up all applications to the public. The number of applications would be reduced. And secondly, I think the applications should at least be signed. It's simply by my judgment a standard that would bring between us and between us to say that we look into each other's faces, eyes and discuss each other. That would really be the best contribution to preventing conflicts of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35622	Thank you very much, dear colleague Leko. It is up to fellow Piploic, who is not there, so he loses his right to speak on the subject. Does the proposaler's representative want a final word? Yeah. The final word of a respected colleague, Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35623	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here in this brief debate we heard really important and interesting things and I think what the MPs pointed out is largely standing. I would refer to some of the findings that have been made. I would agree to the most or almost entirely, or entirely with Mr. Tomcic when he gave an assessment of the lack of sanctions and the insufficient consequences of dishonest behavior, the possible dishonest behaviour of individual representatives. Likewise, the chairman of the commission, Mr. Leco, presented a series of shortcomings that he simply saw in practice in the law and I think that from the very reading of the law, especially when someone has already seen how it works, we can safely say that the law has certain shortcomings. But I would like to remind you that this addition of the law had a very limited intention. This wasn't, it was the idea to change and supplement this law as much as we went to that change we assume under 1. that it would have the consent of all clubs or at least most of the MPs in this House. And on 2nd, we solved a particular problem that appeared to us as a burning one in this House. Of course, if the majority in this Parliament finds that some comprehensive changes in space are needed, it will probably come to the approval of both the SDP and other members of the Assembly. But precisely because the proposer's intention was limited to this one serious problem that we wanted to solve the problem we didn't spread and we expect that there will be agreement around this supplement. Mr Tomcic pointed out some of the ideas that I consider to be a citizen and also a member of Parliament very much liked but, unfortunately, as a lawyer, I could not suggest that they enter this law. It is simply because they do not agree with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That's the story of the end of the term, I fully agree with you. This should be the consequences of every normal democratic society that when we catch a representative in a lie he bears the most important political consequence, which is to abandon his duty. But if he doesn't have any cheek to do it after he's caught with his hands in the honey as you say, then the legal norm can do it alone at constitutional level in my court. And the only way to do that is to change the Constitution but that would be a lot too much for the proposer at this point. On the other hand, I am also in agreement that some criminal provisions could be followed, and I am of the opinion that this law is not the right place for criminal sanctions. Therefore, criminal offences should be prescribed in criminal law. It is one possibility that right now we can propose a new criminal offence or amendment and addition of criminal law. I personally don't expect it to be a good-looking move for the public, but I don't expect that by getting support not only for political reasons, I don't think we might agree on that, but I would personally support it, but I also remind myself of something that I think should be one rule and that's not gleaning by the laws. I don't think that athok should be changed by a particular problem that arises, the criminal law is practically tomorrow, as far as I know before us, preparing changes to the extensive amendments to criminal law, and that's the question maybe a month of two, two and a half months there's no reason that or just a ministry that's going to prepare the KZ's Ministry of Justice or we here in the Parliament are not going with the proper changes to this KZ in a way to do what the public is absolutely agreeing with. And that's that for these severe injuries of political morality I would have to say that various forms of serious sanctions are foreseen. Because I agree that too much in the original text of the law has been left to the conscience and morals of the MPs. But by lying, he obviously did not qualify himself very well and legitimately as a person who would then consistently bear the consequences of his conduct. Here, to conclude, of course, I personally accept the discussion of the members of Parliament, Mr Tomcic, Mr Leka in particular. And I would like those changes that they advocate to happen, by warning that some of them are beyond the scope and reach of this targeted change. And in some ways, on behalf of the promoters, I suggest that we keep these ideas that have been presented in mind in front of us at the moment when it is decided or about comprehensive changes, the law in question certainly when it comes to changing the KZ, and in particular perhaps one day when it is done and some constitutional revision for which unfortunately or fortunately we know that it does not happen too often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35624	Sixth, Final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, P.Z. No. 242. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendment was submitted after the deadline by the applicant, the SDP Representatives Club, and we will, in accordance with Article 166. Rules of Procedure vote as a previous question. Shall we discuss the vote on the proposed amendment? Please engage. Vote. Score. 96 votes for, 8 abstentions, 9 against. So, we'll discuss it, and that's how we vote on this amendment. I would like to ask the representative of the proposing, the respected representative Ivo Josipovic, to explain the amendment's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35625	Here, can I get out of here or what? You got it. Well, it's actually about that remark Mr. Tomcic made that we missed the norm formulation to record, so to speak, and those persons associated with the official. So it's about those people that, otherwise, the property officer has to report. We just built it in so it wouldn't be a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35626	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed amendment. Please engage. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. The amendment was accepted by 98 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 7 against. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that, with 96 votes for, 13 abstentions and 5 against the proposed Law, the text in the text proposed by the Proposer together with the amendment adopted. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The next item is; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of HSP, first reading of P.Z. No. 241; Proposer of the Law is the Club of HSP Representatives. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislatives, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Economy of Development and Reconstruction. The government has delivered its opinion. I would like to ask the representative's representative, the honourable representative, Ružo Tomasic, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35628	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The Labour Act as a kind of Croatian working constitution after its adoption in 1995 experienced significant changes and additions in 2001 and 2003. Despite newspapers and some improvements, the existing labour law does not, unfortunately, provide adequate protection of labour rights in Croatia. This is without a doubt the consequence of not respecting a series of objections and proposals from the union ranks, i.e., of the amendments during the process of amending and supplementing this law in 2003. These amendments to the Labour Act aim to improve the protection of labour rights in two key problems. First, determining Sunday as a day off, and protecting workers who report corruption from cancellation and harassment at work. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, by its decision of 28 April 2004, abolished the Law on amendments to the laws on trade. The above-mentioned amendments to the trade law were intended to establish Sunday as a non-working day. But unfortunately only for shopkeepers and only in some branches of the store. In Croatia, however, not everyone is only employed in the store, and better to address this problem by amending labour laws that would thus be worth all employees but only by amending the laws on trade. The holiday law, the mention of days and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia are taxing on the days that are considered holidays. And in which days in the Republic of Croatia are not working, and the days in which individual citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right not to work. Citizens who celebrate Christmas on January 7th on that day the citizens of Islamic religion in the days of Ramadan Bayrams, and the cobram of Bayrams, and Jewish faiths in the days of the roschas and the Yonkipurs have the right to not work. If one of the days referred to in Articles 1 and 3 of this Act of Sunday, the holiday or the day does not work, the day shall not be transferred to the next. Also, employees in those days have the right to pay wages. On the other hand, as provided for in Article 55(3), The Constitution in the Republic of Croatia guarantees workers the right to a week's vacation and these rights cannot be denied. The labour law guarantees the rights of workers on a week's vacation on Sundays or on another day of the week, if so agreed on by a collective agreement. Because that's for example. It requires a production process or scope and type of work. The worker should also receive an increased salary for work on Sundays, holidays or other days. A law that's laid down not to work. Article 46 of the Labour Act defines a week's rest. The worker is entitled to a week's vacation on a Sunday of at least 24 hours continuous. And if it is necessary to work on Sundays, he must be provided with one day of rest every week. During a period of a defined collective agreement concluded between the working council and the employer or the labour contract. In addition, the Republic of Croatia is a signator of the 106th Convention on a weekly vacation in trade and offices of the International Labour Organisation from 1957. The international agreements taken by the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the notification of a succession under this Convention shall be subject to the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to ensure the weekly rest of workers. While Article 6 of the Convention provides that the period of weekly rest must be consistent with the day of the week determined as a day of rest according to tradition or customs. Or that the traditions and customs of religious minorities must be respected. All persons to whom this Convention applies shall be entitled, unless otherwise arranged, to the following articles for a period of at least 24 hours continuously during each period of 7 days. The period of weekly rest shall be granted whenever possible at the same time to all interested persons in each company. The period of weekly vacation whenever possible shall be granted at the same time to all interested persons in each company. The period of weekly vacation must, whenever possible, be coincided with the day of the week, which according to the traditions or customs of that country or county is defined as the day of rest. Traditions and practices of religious minorities must be respected as much as possible. General rule on Sunday as an unworkable day for the Republic of Croatia contained in the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on Legal Issues signed in Zagreb on 18 December 1996. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion The labour law, which determines the duration of the working week, makes it clear that Sundays do not fall on the working week. Protecting workers who report corruption. In Croatian society, the principle of corruption is negative, unfavourable, harmful and dangerous. There is an agreement on this between most citizens and so-called so-called citizens. political elites and business and scientific communities. Corruption is usually defined as giving money or other material goods, privileges and similar to that of the recipient to act or act according to the desire of the giver. Bribery from civil servants and other persons in positions of influence, i.e. the use of their own social position, functions in order to adopt or provide certain illegal privileges or material gains. Serving illegal and immoral means to gain the favor of officials in the exercise of rights or illegal benefits, bribery of officials and officials and bribery. The National Anti-Corruption Programme determines the concept by means of a series of criminal acts, giving and receiving bribes, illegal intermediation, abuse of the duties of state authorities, abuse of positions and powers, conclusion of a harmful contract, giving away official secrets, and issuing and authorising the acquisition of business secrets. This is not just a Croatian domestic problem, corruption is also a traditional export product, i.e. a permanent companion of the world's economic system. At times, they viewed the phenomenon as capitalist imperialism, and today they ideologically call it the negative consequences of globalisation. The phenomenon is basically simple, rich and developed countries view less developed than the market for their products and services. For Croatia, exporting corruption can pose a major danger. It is particularly worrying that the most frequently targeted exporters of corruption in the world are public works and construction. Then, following the export of corruption in the world, oil and gas, banking, energy and telecommunications business. It can be concluded that many countries where corruption is not high corruption successfully export usually to countries where it is a major problem. Foreign companies often destabilize the society and political systems of developing countries with extreme inadequacy. Modes of behavior typical of so-called. The grey economy thus becomes key in the official economy, which has been a major obstacle to economic development and growth in transition countries. Croatia is threatened with the same danger in the globalisation process, so any kind of fight against corruption is welcome. However, the fight against corruption in Croatia is inefficient and as inconceivable as possible without the protection of citizens who decide to report corruption. For their protection, a mere declarative intention in the National Anti-Corruption Programme is not enough. In this respect, it is of particular importance that workers who report corruption are protected. In Croatia, in which the number of unemployed and temporary employees exceeds 20% of the working-age population blackmailing or punishing workers by firing is unfortunately still an effective weapon against workers who decide to report total corruption. There are numerous examples of such practices in Croatia which are not necessarily listed here but which clearly show that these workers need clear legal protection. Croatia is also bound by the provisions of two adopted international conventions to fight corruption. Thus, the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption in Article 22 provides for the obligations of the Member States of the Convention, that each Member State will adopt those measures which are necessary for effective and adequate protection. A) A person reporting criminal offences referred to in Articles 2 to 14 or who otherwise cooperates with investigative and judicial authorities and B) Witnesses who give evidence of those offences. In addition, the Civil Law Convention on Corruption in its Article 9 sets out clearly, each party in its internal legislation will provide for adequate protection against any unjustified punishment for employees who have reasonable reason to suspect corruption or who, in good faith, declare their suspicion to responsible persons or authorities. Amendments and additions to the Labour Act in 2003 have only taken a half-step in this regard. In accordance with Article 115 of the Treaty on the The labour law which defines the unwarranted reasons for the cancellation was then added a new item, which reads: Addressing workers on grounds of reasonable suspicion of corruption or in good faith is not a valid reason for filing a complaint on this suspicion to responsible persons or competent authorities. Unfortunately, no criminal provisions in Article 248 have been completed on that occasion. Labour law, so a ban on firing without proper punishment is completely ineffective and pointless. There's no reason for the employer to give up his job to report corruption even though he's not threatened with any punishment. Unfortunately, the amendment of the HSP Representatives Club aimed at supplementing the criminal provisions of the Labour Act was not then accepted in this regard. Furthermore, it is necessary to increase the amount of fines for the most serious infringements of the employer in Article 248, as the current fine of 100 thousand kuna for the dismissal of workers who report corruption is simply insufficient. Kunska's equivalent of EUR 100 000 would be significantly more appropriate. However, it is possible that a workman who reports corruption will be forced to quit his job, not for unwarranted dismissal, but for harassment at work. This Regulation shall enter The labour law defining the protection of the dignity of workers should therefore be completed. The employer is obliged to protect the dignity of the workers during the performance of the work by providing him with conditions of work in which he will not be exposed to harassment. This protection also includes the taking of preventive measures. However, if there are circumstances why it is not justified to expect the employer to protect the dignity of the workers, then the worker is not obliged to submit the complaint to the employer and has the right to terminate the work provided that he has sought protection from the competent court. It is therefore logical to assume that reporting corruption can lead to circumstances in which the worker cannot expect the employer to protect him from harassment, or to protect his dignity, and to necessarily supplement Article 30. The law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35629	Thank you very much. Reporter of the individual committee who held the hearing. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, President, Honored Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35630	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Health at the 24th session of the Committee held on 9 March 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Association of Representatives of the HSP by an act of 19 January 2005. The Committee discussed the proposal as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the committee are familiar with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this proposal for a law. Following the opening statement by the proposing representatives at the beginning of the debate, the committee members pointed out that the proposal for a law is a good incentive to discuss a sensitive topic and the possibility of proposing better solutions. Amendments to the Labour Act 2003 are precisely the most extensive in the field of protection of workers against discrimination, but insufficient mechanisms are foreseen for the achievement of such protection. It is not necessarily necessary to supplement the opinion of the members of the board but only to ensure that they are implemented. The existing Labour Act is in line with the International Labour Organisation, Labour Organisations, and especially those in the field of protection of human rights prescribes Sunday as the day of the week's vacation. The problem arises from members of the Committee, when work obligations are carried out on Sundays in activities where this is not necessary either because of the production process, the type of activity or for other justified reasons. Therefore, in the opinion of the members of the Committee, the issue of work on Sundays should be resolved by special law on the basis of the framework provisions of the Labour Act. In this regard, it is extremely important, in the opinion of the Committee members, to implement the provisions of Article 46 consistently. Labour law with the necessary enhanced supervision of labour inspection. In this way, work rights and human rights of employees would be protected. The protection of individuals who, in good faith, declare reasonable suspicion of corruption is for the first time introduced as an institute into labour legislation by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2003 Labour Act. The members of the Committee are of the opinion that this is certainly too short a time to analyse its application as well as the consequences of its implementation and the proposal for possible different solutions. Only after the analysis of the regulations and their application over a longer period as well as the obligations undertaken by international contracts will it be possible to establish that certain amendments are necessary to ensure more effective protection of workers in order to report a reasonable suspicion of corruption. After the debate, the board members decided to propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, with two votes against. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in the text is not adopted as proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club. However, the board members also unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for adoption and the next conclusion. It is necessary that the Government of the Republic of Croatia conducts a full analysis of the situation as soon as possible with regard to the application of existing provisions on the setting of Sundays as a week's rest, especially in relation to activities in which Sundays have become a working day in practice, and this is not necessary because of the production process or other justified reasons. On the basis of the observed situation, it proposes a solution which will, without doubt and in a clearer way, determine that Sunday is a week's vacation except for the specific exceptions. Furthermore, it proposes an effective manner of control to ensure consistent application of Sunday regulations as a non-working day while at the same time fulfilling all legal requirements provided for in the case of a work obligation on Sundays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35631	Thank you very much. Any other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35632	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On the basis of this proposal for a law amending the Labour Act, four-and-a-five is an extremely important point for me. The first to refer to the procedure itself. In all the mandates of the Parliament so far, one of the major objections to all governments was when they appeared with the proposals of the law of the Corps or part of the working-social legislation, it was required that the opinion of the Economic and Social Council and the social partners be given in order to make a far easier decision for the Parliament itself, because it is one of the laws that has the most direct impact on the working conditions of all employees in the Republic of Croatia. The legislator of this bill did not ensure the opinion of the social partners, and therefore the criticism of both the principle nature and him, because whenever the government comes with these proposals, I will again seek the opinion of the Economic and Social Council, the social partners, whether they agree with the proposal or not, we always need to know. Secondly, I would also like to say in the beginning that good intentions and pointing to the essence of the problem, especially from the reasoning of the bill, I accept, but the proposed text of the law is not. So the extremely good intentions and the perceived problems that the promoter has seen, they are, unfortunately, trying to solve proposals that are not acceptable, and I will explain why. The first article of the amendment offered where the addition of Article 30 is proposed with the finding that the address of workers in the event of suspected bribery or corruption will not be expected to protect the employer's dignity simply cannot fall under Article 30 because Article 30 speaks of the protection of workers' dignity against harassment and sexual harassment so that it is one truly other area and doubtful whether in advance we can assume that the employer will compromise or not protect the dignity of workers as one legal provision that is entered, and from case to case, however, there may be a far-reaching difference. Secondly, Article 2 of the amendment falls within the existing Article 38 with the formulation that Sunday does not fall within the working week. Such a formulation, if described in the Labour Act, means that no one is allowed to work in this country on Sunday. This formulation allows no exceptions, no hospitals, no trams, no trains, no hospitality, no hotels, no tourism, no planes, but nothing can work on Sundays. This form in the working week, which is taken on Sunday and priory, is excluded from the working week, means by saying no to anyone to work on Sundays. I want to believe that this was not the proposal's intention but that the wrong formulation was used, especially because it was obviously forgotten about the article 46, which defined the week's vacation as Sunday, with the possibility and different arrangements. The problem is the problem of working in the store. The fact that the train drivers are driving the train on Sunday is normal for all of us. That the pilot was flying the plane and we accepted that. That hospitals work on Sundays and doctors in these hospitals it's perfectly normal for us and that hotels work on Sundays and we took it as a normal state. And that "ZET" drives on Sunday tram and we accepted that from the moment the trams in Zagreb appeared. Trade is an activity that has been the latest in the labour market and started working Sunday, which is why the subject is slow. No one is seriously considering banning the work of the railways on Sundays, hotels, hospitals, or anyone else. The problem that Sunday wants is the problem of non-compliance and non-control of law enforcement and respect, not of existing legal provisions. If all those who work by letter of the law and collective agreement on Sundays would pay for their work with increased wages, such as the law in the minimum frameworks, and collective contracts in the wider frameworks are prescribed, especially when this work is even overtime, because it is often limited to 10 hours a week and with the obligation that those working on Sundays must be provided for a second day of the week. So if those 3 workers' rights were respected and sanctioned by employers who don't accept it, believe me, no chain of commerce on Sunday would work. And I thought they were the key to the inspection service, the inspectors, but the union assures me that no, they're not that big a problem, but the problem is when their applications end up in obsolescence. And no sanctions. So if a fine is as minimal as it is, and no one is proposing a tightening, it is precisely not enough to be someone, whether it is a domestic or foreign trade chain, to force them to respect labour rights, especially from the European Union countries. So, those owners, let's then apply the same model that, let's say, colleagues in Austria, Germany, France forced them to comply with the law, and that was the closure of those activities, trade, facilities and companies that frequently violated workers' rights. So if that's what the Germans did 30 years ago, so do we. If the Austrians did it, the French, let's go along with 2 fines 3 times someone closes to 2, 3 months and see if they open on Sunday, make women work overtime 10 hours, not giving them a second day off, not paying Sundays as an increase in salary and strutting that they have achieved profits and that they are a very successful trade chain and are already controlling 30% of Croatian markets. I'm sure he won't. We don't want to, we don't know, or we don't dare apply because they came from Europe, and in that same Europe, it doesn't fall, it has to be done in accordance with their legislation. So Sunday's Sunday's the week's vacation. If it's paid and there are three conditions and you have to pay. There can't be any more overtime 10 hours a week and some other day has to be free. It comes to the turn of a collective contract that restricts one worker or one worker during the calendar year from working more than, say, 4.5 weeks. Not 52 weeks, 4.5 max. So they'll have to hire new ones so they can be open on Sundays. These are the solutions that we should offer in place of the major demagogues that occur in the public debate. Let's try to apply that first. And as for Article 3, if an employer fires an employer who has or has reported a suspect in bribery and corruption, we increase or introduce penalties that he will pay to the state, why should the state reward to pay the employer to the state and leave the worker with his notice on the road. What's the interest in punishing for the benefit of the state, and we don't have any mechanisms or we don't want to have to help a worker. So instead of punishment and increasing the punishment they are afraid of, because when it becomes a powerful solution in that punishment, those couples who have become powerful in Croatia, they come out of age, you know. When should I pay? This Regulation shall enter The law clearly defines that the cancellation in this case is, therefore, the application for bribery and corruption as illegal resignation. That's what the law says. In turn, Article 123 states that if the court finds in the case of a worker that it is illegal to cancel that the worker will be compensated for the damage. The damages. 3 cases our Law knows as an illicit, illicit dismissal. Because of his illness, if he got fired for being sick or, unwarranted. Second, the applicant of an appeal or a suit against the employer and third, the address of workers for the purpose of justifying suspicion of corruption or bribery. And let's use that right to that employer who fires a man who's reported bribery and corruption to pay the state five thousand kuna fines or nothing. But this provision, which determines the amount of compensation, is now prescribed from 3 to 18 salaries of that same worker on average for the last 3 months. Therefore, if the worker has achieved 3 thousand kunas in the last 3 months, the average salary of the court may determine the compensation of damages between 3 and 18 of such salaries. Let's increase those 18 to 58 and then quit, but the employer pays him to pay the worker who got fired. Who lost his job because he had civil courage on our call and reported bribery and corruption. We invite them to clear that up, to report it to make it any less. Then we suggest that he pays the fine to the state, but he doesn't even like the worker anymore. Therefore, we must look for a solution in this regard. That for any unwarranted cancellation of the penalty and the money to go, they go in favor of the workers as such satisfaction because they had civil courage and entered this extremely difficult struggle. And I end up next. And what if that application was never processed in a way that the worker was right or wrong? Finish somewhere in the drawer. It's being taken into processing and there's no ending. Now comes the civil suit of the employer against the worker who sues him for slander. How much, then, is the punishment for slander, for the mental pain of an employer? 700, 800 grand. 700, 8,000 thousand euros. There's no such thing as a safeguard limit, so that's why my appeal to the proposer is if the bill goes through the second reading not to punish the state, the money to the worker. Then we made a difference to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35633	Thank you very much. Today we'd break up the session. We'll continue on this subject tomorrow. The first in line is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, respected representative Ljubica Lalić, and then on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative, Ruža Lelic, and we move on in the agenda. After this point of amending the law, the draft law on the financing of political parties in large cities, in the State Election Commission, etc. I'm interrupting the session. Resume tomorrow at 9.30. SECURE Interrupted at 18.55 hours Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. The debate is on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35635	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I asked for a word on behalf of the club. At the beginning of this session, since today is Friday and probably the last day of this session I wanted to remind you and ask you for a particular explanation. On 4 February last session, we held a debate on the report on the work on the implementation of the revision of conversion and privatisation and the reports on the audits of conversion and privatisation carried out. At that time, in your closing statement, when you concluded the session, you said that in terms of... the discussions on the work of the State Audit Office were completed with the revisions of the conversion and privatisation carried out in accordance with the proposal of clubs, part of the club representatives, and the proposals for conclusions should be consulted with the Government, both with the Fund and among the clubs. I assume that a good part of the MPs knows that you have been consulted as President of the Parliament where you presented us with certain indications of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Office for Audit and the Croatian National Bank as well as the Ministry of Justice. I remind you that it was then agreed with you in the cabinet that you will try to contact the Croatian Parliament, representatives of clubs and government to find this very important problem a political solution. So I ask the question whether such consultations with the Government have been carried out, are intended to vote today on this case, unless consultation is carried out if it is not intended to vote, when they will be carried out, because it is simply two months before this debate has been held is too long for us to enter the final stage of deciding on this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35636	Thank you very much. As you yourself have stated after the Assembly concluded the debate on this, I have asked for an opinion from these sets of institutions on the feasibility and ability to implement such conclusions, I have received it, I have informed you. At this meeting, we left still open further consultations on agreeing and finding a consensus political solution on the proposals for the conclusions of the clubs that they submitted, proposed those conclusions, and the consultations were not completed. I had final consultations with the president of the SDP yesterday, and we agreed to continue our consultations on agreeing on possible positions so that they could reach these important conclusions by consensus. Today, we will not vote on it, but we will leave it for the next time in order to reach a really possible consensus on these proposals. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35637	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. As the Proposer explained in his opening statement, these amendments and additions to the Labour Act are intended to improve the protection of workers' rights in the case of two key problems. Determining Sunday as a day off, and protecting workers who report corruption from cancellation and harassment at work. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club supports the proposed changes, taking into account the entire spectrum of the value of the week off, and the far-reaching consequences of jeopardising these values, and considering the necessity of protecting those who have dared to report corruption that divides our society. We are surprised by the government's position of the Republic of Croatia, which suggests that this law be rejected. A year ago, when polls showed that as many as 86% of citizens supported the Law on Trade, which limited trade on Sundays, and the Constitutional Court abolished it, the government promised unions and the bishop's conference after the adoption of the document "Sunday for Man" that within 6 months, it would propose a law guaranteeing Sundays as the day of the week's rest, to all those for whom there is no direct need for work. To this day, this promise, like most other days of promises, has not been carried out by the government, even as much as it suggests that this Law be rejected. Unlike the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we in Croatia believe that Sundays as a week's vacation should be institutionalised. We understand that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the inalienable right of every employee on a weekly vacation. You can see that Sunday's Labour Act determines as the day of the week's vacation and Sunday's work is only allowed if the work is needed. Croatia has concluded a contract with the Holy See on which Sunday is an unworkable day, the international contract is even above the domestic law, but despite all this Sundays, there is more and more work to be done and there are particularly vulnerable workers in the trade that work just every Sunday, although there is no direct need for this work. It is obvious that our society respects not only the law but also the value of a week off. The causes and direct consequences of not respecting the value of the week are evident in the harsh violation of basic labour and other human rights as well as the applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia. The direct consequences of not respecting the value of the week are, withholding the right to a week's vacation, an inadmissible number of overtime hours, which threatens the possibility of employment in any case by a large number of unemployed. Only at the store a year shows up so many overtime hours that more than 12,000 jobs can be opened. Disrespecting the right to free Sunday and seeking to use Sunday for commercial purposes suggests that Croatian society puts man and his freedom at the heart of its profession but exclusively material gain. Man is not considered a person but a wheel in the process of weekly production and weekly consumption. The consciousness of man seeks to narrow down to economic interests. Man is denied time and space for other contents such as culture and family. A very strong contribution to the tendency and to seek that the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposal to reject this Law. The long-term support of this attitude will also negatively affect Croatian society. We in the Croatian peasant party are convinced that Sunday should be excluded from work week. Why? In the Europe that we strive for, there is a thousand-year tradition of Sunday as a week's vacation. It doesn't matter if a man is resting on Sundays or working days, it doesn't matter if a man is resting when others are resting or when others are working. The following European tradition of the 106th Convention on a week of rest, which is signed by the signator and Croatia, said: "The period of weekly vacation is approved when possible by all interested persons in each company. The period of the weekly vacation must, whenever possible, be consistent that on the day of the week according to the traditions and customs of that country or county, it is determined as the day of rest," the quote concluded. In Croatia the tradition of Sunday's week vacation was also during a communist system that had no understanding of the religious needs of citizens. The requirement and need for a workless Sunday is not motivated by religious motives the need for an unworked Sunday stems from the anthropological, cultural, social and economic significance and value of Sunday as an unworkable day. The value of freedom Sunday is closely linked to the perception of man. A man can only turn good in freedom. In order for man to develop himself as a person, to be able to think about his own life and determine himself, to develop himself in his more dimensionality and to stand up for human society, space and time of freedom must be ensured. Freedom is a spiritual need for a man who can be conditioned and restricted by various factors such as mind, body, and spiritual exhaustion. The importance of the biological need for rest should also be taken into account. The social consensus on this human need is contained in the working legislation governing the maximum number of daily and weekly hours, and the right to daily, weekly and annual holidays. Man isn't just a biological, he's a cultural being. As such, he needs to use his rest not only for the restoration of physical, but also for spiritual strengths, for they are inseparable in every creative activity. The vacation frees up space for life and that other dimension of man that exceeds interest and usefulness. He's a man and he's a community. He is not only an individual, but he is in his own right to be referred to others, amongst relations in different forms of community. In order to make a quality relationship with others, he must first meet himself. The time and space framework for meeting with other humans and creatures, if you will and meet with God, provides a rest. He is a source of self-awareness, but also of establishing relationships that are not limited to working relationships. And so man's life is inconclusive to production and consumption. The freedom of the week is one of the most fundamental protests against bringing people's lives into production and consumption, the worker's productivity cannot be motivated solely by higher wages, but by liberating and estimating its creative power. In order to be more effective, man must live all the dimensions of his humanity. In order for this to be possible, it is necessary to ensure a week's rest for the whole society. Traditionally, both in Europe and Croatia it is Sunday. Bringing man to a means of production and consumption that violates the right and need of daily and weekly rest can endanger not only the individual and their family, but the very foundations of society and its political integration. At this point, it is not only social relations that suffer, but also economic productivity. It is a pity that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not understand this, but by recommending that this Law be rejected, it brings man down to a means of production and consumption only. And the anthropological, cultural, social and economic aspect of freedom Sunday has a restorative value. For Christians, it has a strong religious meaning. For them Sunday is a memorial of creation and existence, and a celebration of the existence of man and all creation. Man is a creature, and Sunday as the seventh day of the crown is created. From all aspects of the week's value as an unworkable day, it is evident that it is inevitable for a complete relationship with a man as well as such... is a man's dignity. Furthermore, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia protects the family. The family is under special state protection. Along with numerous factors that are a prominent place in the service of family protection, the possibility of family association takes place at least one day a week. And the family has an irreplaceable socialization role. The fostering of family and family relations, it once again becomes a place of love and security, stability and peace. The way we take care of our family, that's how we'll have company. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party supports the proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act for the purpose of protecting all those who have dared to contribute to the repression and disclosure of corruption, as well as to exclude Sunday from work week. Because Sundays as a day of rest and space for the achievement and recreation of all kinds of human creative powers are of general interest to the entire society and social institutions and organizations as an unforgivable content of the human quality of life of individuals and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35638	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government, Mr Zvonimir Mršić, called a meeting of the Committee today at 10 o'clock at Ante Starcevic's Hall. On behalf of the promoter, Honored Representative Tonči Tadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35639	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At first, I would like to thank you for these praises from the HSS Club that otherwise supported us at debates at the Assembly clubs about this amendment to our Labour Act. Our amendments to the Labour Act wanted to touch two key topics on us, so Sunday as an unworkable day, that is to say, protecting people who report corruption. Both were topics initiated by the trade unions themselves, enough to remind here that the trade union, on the advice of independent trade unions, insisted that Sunday be regulated as a day off. On the other hand, the protection of workers who reported corruption was one general need that was expressed through requests from the Croatian Union Association two years ago when the last amendment to the Labour Act was last amended, and I am pleased to remind that at that time the HSPs at the request of the Croatian Union Association gave their amendment to the Labour Act which was unfortunately not adopted. So both of our initiatives are based on union demands. We didn't touch the rest of the Labour Act, because we don't have that kind of incentive from the union to get into it. And we'd be happy to get into that, too, if we get that as a union request. We will never agree in any way to the amendments to the Labour Act which will go to the harm of Croatian workers. Let's make that clear to everyone. And these two procedures are necessary and simple to encourage the existing status quo in these spheres, i.e. the existing non-resolvement of these problems. As for Sundays, we don't go to work bans on Sundays. So we're not going to the ban on Sundays, and that's why I want to deny all the signs in the press that came up about it. We think Sunday doesn't belong on weekdays. In the same way that working week doesn't include holidays. So we want Sunday to be treated like a holiday. And for the simple reason that it comes from the Treaty of the Republic of Croatia with the Holy Table. Someone may have forgotten that. But Croatia signed and ratified the contract. It is a valid act of Croatian law and it must be respected as such. It is true that in the Labour Act 2003, Article 46 of the employer’s first obligation to give the worker a week’s rest but should also take into account the Convention on the Weekly Rest of the International Labour Organisation, which says that tradition and religious customs should be respected when it comes to what day of the week is, and we believe that tradition and religious practices in Croatia require that this week’s vacation not be any day of the week but that it be a very Sunday. And to be absolutely sure that it will be Sunday, then it is best to do so that Sunday will not be part of a working week as it is not the holidays themselves. As for the protection of workers who report to corruption, however, we were most startled by the findings here at the beginning of the Government's opinion on our law, the government of course rejects our law which was really unusual to us. The government, therefore, says in its statement that Croatian labour legislation is still very rigid in the European Union's assessments and that this leaves an open question of satisfactory labour market flexibility in the function of higher employment in Croatia. When you translate this finding from Croatian to Croatian, it means that the government does not accept such changes to the Labour Act because it is afraid that it contributes to the new flexibility of work or that this way of flexibility of work is simply not acceptable for them. I agree that the work should be flexible but if we are to fight against the flexibility of the work so that we will prevent changes to the Labour Act that go in favour of defining Sunday as an unworkday or especially those changes that go in favour of the protection of workers who report corruption, then it is indeed extremely unusual. What is even more mysterious about the government's assessment is that the government believes that, based only on an analysis of all the positive regulations and its situation in the fight against corruption, it will go to any amendments to the Labour Act and other legislation to protect workers who report corruption. We really don't know what kind of analysis is still needed with a number of cases of shagging and firing workers who have reported corruption. It is enough here to specify only the famous case of Vesna Balenovic to show how thin Croatia actually stands on the protection of workers who report corruption. So instead of punishing employers, workers who do so are punished by visiting the court thirty times. It is, therefore, that we believe that the existing ban on firing workers who have reported corruption does not achieve anything unless there is a penalty for that ban at the same time. We actually protect the workers with an empty gun, and that's why we need to put a clear sentence here for the employer. Also, that sentence for the employer should be lifted from the symbolic 100 thousand kuna to 100 thousand euros because it will then be enough to warn and the judge for the violations that are serving that sentence and who finds that the worker has been fired without need and who automatically punishes the employer by his judgment through the Law on the mandatory relations of workers to return to the workplace because the matter must be established, so relations must be established as they were before the offence was committed by the employer and the worker, of course, in that case must receive remuneration for those months that he was out of business because he was unfairly fired. We also feel that it is necessary and to protect such a worker from being chiced at the job itself because it can happen that man himself should quit if the employer chicants him in such a way to avoid such a great punishment. What is particularly important is that we believe that such penalties must indeed be applied knowing that it is not only a private employer but also a state as an employer. We cannot effectively fight corruption unless we can protect those who have decided to report to corruption and crystal clear that this is what the Conventions on Corruption that we adopt and ultimately the very will of our parliamentary representatives and the highest Croatian public are about to end corruption in Croatia. But I repeat, fighting corruption is impossible if we cannot protect even those who have reported it. Therefore, knowing that in Croatia twenty percent of people are unemployed, which is temporarily employed, we believe that the threat of termination is unfortunately a very effective means of scaring workers and in general citizens who want to report corruption. For these reasons, we went to these changes to the Labour Act. I thank you for all the support we've received from the representatives' clubs and expect it to be so during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35640	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35641	Dear President, ladies and colleagues! Since April 2003, the Croatian public and media have been often discussing the regulation of work on Sundays and holidays but also the general value of the week off. The ratio of strength and attitudes of the interested are mostly known. The unions are looking for a ban on Sundays and holidays. Large merchants are for freedom of work and the rest are between the two attitudes depending on the mood of the public and the opportunities. We remember that by its decision of 28.4.2004, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has put the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act out of force. Sundays as a day off have been formed during the first millennium and become a protection of the weaker and socially endangered. By then, it was observed that overworkers were unable to meet their work obligations. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club are for the protection of Sunday's culture, protection of human and labour rights, and especially the protection of workers and workers in trade who at this time are the most vulnerable. I think they're working from morning till tomorrow for very small or no money. Sunday is a week's vacation and work only in exceptional cases. Exceptions should be reduced to the necessary minimum, such as when it comes to trade in kiosks, gas stations and other sales facilities, which are important for the normal supply of the population and in activities where the nature of the business such as health, regular activity and similar activities requires. Working on Sundays, workers are often unpaid, underpaid. The state has little use for that and polls show that Sunday's work does not support 75% of citizens. This is where you're thinking of doing business research at the store. Normally, if the polls were conducted for work in health care and similar activities, then there would certainly not be any support because it is impossible to suspend such services. Work on Sundays also has many bad consequences. Overworked people, working badly, hurt more and more, getting sick and finally falling on the burden of taxpayers, so legislation should certainly also be taken into account about the protection of the economy. In order to preserve the integrity of a society, it is important to spend time together. Sundays should leave time for family reunions, family lunch, a quiet day when cultural facilities will develop in society, sports activities, easy rest. The work should therefore be arranged on Sundays, safeguarding the dignity of Croatian citizens, and promoting the interest of the Croatian economy. The proposal for Croatia's right in the amendments to the law has, however, come under partial support from the union and a rather restrained reaction from the church and employer. The trade unions, however, propose a special Labour Time Act in a trade where Sundays and holidays would be banned. I believe that the Labour Act is already in place a high standard of protection for workers' rights, but it should be applied consistently. But I would wonder here what is with the right of unemployment, their constitutional rights to work and freedom of work. We know that the stress of losing a job is right behind the loss of a loved one or the meaning of divorce, and then the loss of a job and I am a witness to many confessions where people who remain jobless actually came to the edge of a nervous breakdown. Therefore, in addition to the protection of rights, we should also think about the protection of the rights of non-employees. The provisions of the Labour Act shall comply with all obligations made by the Republic of Croatia on the basis of international contracts which the party has entered into, and in particular with, all established standards of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation, since it is confirmed by 57 conventions by all conventions in the field of protection of human rights. We also believe that the provision of Article 46 is. The Labour Act is fully in line with Convention 106 on weekly breaks in trade and offices, as it usually prescribes Sundays as the day of the weekly committee. We support the government's view that it is not justified by the legal provisions to prescribe that Sundays do not fall on a working week. We think it's enough that Sunday is a week's vacation. And in activities where work is necessary on Sundays because of the nature of work as I have already listed health care, municipal services, some technological processes, a worker should get another day as it is now in the Labour Act. And for Sunday's work, an increased salary. This is where it was forced to work on Sundays at the store. Why the most in the store? Because there could actually be a significant shift in the reduction of work on Sundays or the termination of work on Sundays for which we personally support ourselves. However, these employees are also not paid for this work on Sundays and there is also a big problem, while for example I can say in health care and where it is regulated by a collective contract and the situation is quite different. When it comes to the protection of workers who report corruption, so-called. They will whistle, persons who, with their personal courage and at the cost of losing their jobs and we know that they often end up on the road unprotected on the edge of existence, decide to report corruption either in a commercial society, whether in public institutions or in the state administration, and we sincerely respect them and support them. The Croatian Party of Rights also submitted the amendment to the Labour Act in 2003, and it did not receive support then. Those persons should certainly be protected and encouraged because unfortunately we do not have many. The proposal proposes a significant increase in fines from 60 to 100 000 euros to 60 to 100 000 euros for employers who have fired workers who have reported corruption in a company that can achieve a shift in protection but cannot achieve the purpose for which it is proposed. However, all that is suspected of corruption and corruption must be proven in a court procedure as must be demonstrated by the Institute of justifiable and unwarranted grounds for failure, so it cannot be left to one discretionary decision but must nevertheless be established in a court procedure. We also think that the fight against corruption requires an interdisciplinary approach. We have seen that we have also passed a series of laws on corruption because this is a really important and important issue for other countries, too, is an important issue for us. And we think that we all support any measure that will lead to a reduction in corruption. It is therefore necessary to find effective measures to protect all entities that report to a good extent reasonable suspicion of corruption. However, already by amending the Labour Act which, these amendments came into force in July 2003, the Institute is, the protection institute has already been introduced. And that is why it is acceptable for us and we support the government's view that only on the basis of an analysis of all the positive regulations and their implementation, as well as commitments made by means of international contracts, can then be proposed to amend and supplement legislation in order to ensure the comprehensive and effective protection of all entities who are highly suspected of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35642	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35643	Well, the distinguished colleague had a lot of contradiction in her presentation, I will look back on the most important part, she said that the abstention of the Catholic Church in Croatia, not a abstention, they said on Sundays, they said that it should protect births, pregnant women, older workers, I think it is abstention rather than, in fact, a very clear position like our proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35644	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35645	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. What is the position of Croatian employment today, never worse or worse. Under the cover of harmonising Croatian legislation with the legal gains of the European Union carried out during the former coalition government, workers were eventually disbursed and became a clean rental force, a clean lease relationship and employers became their masters of life and death. What is the perspective of pregnant women, births, over 45 years of age, Croatian defenders who, while fighting for Croatia, were left with them and their parents without jobs while everyone else stole it? What's the position? There's no position. Why was it not consistent with European gains that specific powers were given to inspectors and not that inspectors were sent with a water gun to a tank. The very fact that, for example, last year, a huge number of misappropriations were filed for non-compliance with workers' rights and over 60% of them became obsolete. It is said that on the one hand, it was only going in, in the interests of the employer and this form of capitalism that Croatia has, it is the worst form of capitalism that could ever occur. Just take care of the employer. If this issue was to be regulated and therefore we raised this issue, the position of the Croatian worker must go to the Labour Act and the State Inspectorate Act because the inspector must have specific powers. And that's that his solution finally has the power of an executive I.D. This is the situation if the worker is not paid on a holiday, if the worker is not paid the rights that he has under the collective agreement, when the inspector determines that such a solution should have the power of the executive document, then it could be said that the inspection has to be solved, but it has not been done. Then a second, very precise thing, and that's the thing, if you find that the employer systematically violates such rights, then let's go to a ban, a temporary measure of protection, a ban on working for a month. Because this is how the results are achieved preventively, so this measure is preventive, so let's say the same situation with the work of catering facilities outside of working hours, and only those measures which had primarily the character of prevention, achieved results when it was found to have been done longer than allowed prescribed working time. That's your situation in Germany, that's your situation everywhere. If we want to solve the problems of the workers, let us take that German shrew, that quantity of solidarity they have in their legislation, and let us not just take what will bring down the worker to the end. What do you tell the pyrotechnics now? Croatian defenders who will be out of charge because of the state's failure to take care of what the Supervisory Board has stolen, Mungos and the rest of them will be out of a job. What to tell Sljemen workers? The same will run out of work because the scams were in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Who's going to answer for that? What do you tell the workers of the Ironworks? Now they're promised to get paid, to get it started, the question of how it'll be after the election. Therefore, for us this is a very important topic for the position of Croatian employment, and we must start with words of action. The situation is very serious. Workers who work are worried about keeping their jobs. Whether or not to keep the job. Workers who work are also afraid of getting paid at all. You know the situation with their salaries? How do they pay off and not pay off? What's the position of a pregnant woman, everyone, like, you've had the latest polls on abuse at work. Young women ask when they're hiring if they're going to be pregnant, if they're going to become pregnant. Well, that's true. Let's think about it, and on the other hand, we're talking about going to a demographic restoration. It's true, but these are specific examples for you. How many in these polls have been conducted said he was abused at work. That's all the facts where we have to go. What do you say to the unemployed? What's their perspective? So the situation is more than alarming, more than serious, and if we don't start solving these issues, so first of all, let this be, this is the first reading, to point out the position, to try to follow the amendments to the Labour Act on the one hand. On the other hand, by amending the State Inspectorate Act, we'll make a system. The situation itself, let's say we HSP parliamentary representatives have office days, people tell us we don't respect collective agreements, we can't report it because as soon as we report it, the inspector doesn't have any specific powers and the man gets either an extraordinary discharge or a regular resignation. We talked this week about corruption, and now we're talking about how by ratifying that supplemental protocol, we're helping the world fight corruption, and we've forgotten what the situation is with us. It's true what she said to a respected colleague that corruption is being settled in court proceedings. Tell me an example of a capitalist's court ruling that it was settled in a court case. How the worker will report it if there is no protection that he will not be scrutinised during the conduct of the procedure. If he reported it, then falsely let him answer afterwards, but how will we fight corruption if we don't protect him at that most important stage while we need to determine the facts and everything else. The Vesna Balenović case best tells you what the situation is, there are many such examples. A lot of examples. And this message that this part of corruption will not be accepted, it is a message to you further, do not and must not report corruption because you will lose your job. You'll lose your salary, you'll get squished, you'll be abused. So let's go from word to deed, let's go from word to deed. The situation in Croatian labour is getting worse. Go out on, every time, and you'll take a look. And now, it's interesting that those who have a social democratic name are so insensitive to workers. Look, they have social democracy and they're so insensitive, and then they tell us how the inspection will solve it. So why didn't you do that you gave authority to the inspection, that the inspector's solution had the executive power, to ban temporary work. To build first of all order in public enterprises. You have the case that in the City of Zagreb, a pensioner is received from a senior SDP official to start working. Is this a legal state, is this a social moment? It's not. So give yourself once, or you will be social, all who have in their name, define or you will be for this cruel capitalism that is trampled on by Croatian workers. We take care of Croatian people, we're not here for ourselves, we work, there are good employers who do their part of the job, but the thief has the same thing. And this is the most done by those who are in conversion and privatisation while Croatian defenders, workers and their children fought for this Croatia, they now decide, they are their masters, their lives and their deaths. You've seen the very messages of Croatian defenders' associations. He's asking to finally resolve the issue of turning and privatizing the robbery. They said nice, that's why we didn't fight. So let us now take measures to protect Croatian workers, pregnant women, persons over 45 years of age, mothers and not to propagate something that is not true but to fight, if we want to be a social state then let us be a social state or not be here in this Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35646	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35647	I'm telling all of you that self-government had good solutions, especially when it comes to safety of work. It was never more security than it was back then. However, I have come to correct this false quote about a German example Mr Kovacevic mentioned. Five million unemployed. You know what happens now in Germany? They're introducing a job bidding institute. So whoever offers a lower labour price will be employed. Clearly, it's not all so bad in Germany, because if our people weren't going to work there then, they'd come together, but there are such anomalies in countries that we often point out as examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35648	Thank you. The second correction, the respected representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35649	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Kovacevic, a colleague of Kovacevic, in his own, I would still say the demagogue performance, the demagogue speech if we look at the speech as such, said the following. The position of Croatian workers has never been worse, never worse than today. It's simply not true if we're looking at statistics. Statistical data in terms of past salaries and other rights that workers exercise the position of Croatian workers, I must conclude, that although it is complex and difficult, it improves, and de facto throughout its speech it would have turned out that the Croatian worker had his best status and position there in the 1980s during communism. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35650	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35651	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm asking you to respond. First, he insults his colleague and doesn't fix anything. He didn't fix anything for me. So he misapplyed, abused the correction of an incorrect quote with insults, and he knows it's exactly what I was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35652	He's a fellow Beatuniac, you've claimed that the position of workers has never been worse than today. A fellow Bitunac finds it incorrect, so he corrected it, therefore it is not a matter of any injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35653	What about demagogy?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35654	Dear Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35655	So I am correcting the incorrect quote of counterpart Kovacevic who said that Mrs Vesna Balenovic is an example for the person who reported corruption and lost his job. It is not the best example because Mrs Vesna Balenovic lost the court dispute with Slavko Linic and was obliged to apologize publicly to her colleague Slavko Linic for publicly accusing him of being completely, therefore, incorrect. She made him public, so it wasn't about being reasonably suspected of corruption, it was about simply going public to blacken out someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35656	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja, club of representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35657	Dear Mr. President, dear Mrs. Terza, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I really thought that for 14 years I had done the work of a union commissioner at all levels, starting with the group's commissioners and to the county commissioner of the Union of Independent Unions for the Istrian County, but all of this I meant until this presentation of Mr. Pera Kovacevic. Because I've never played this hard on people before and I've never promised anything to do and it's all that simple. But it also didn't happen that no one got fired because they reported the employer at least not on the territory and activities that I covered, because there are other ways to protect the worker, not just the standard that we want, or the only tool we want to use, which is the law. However, to go specifically to this proposal, the Croatian party of pensioners particularly appreciates the good intentions of the promoters to question corruption and the issue of work on Sundays, offices this way. However, we fully agree with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. For us in Croatia, the foreigners of pensioners these are primarily issues that must be addressed and further upgraded through social dialogue was he diplomatic, and as his product relations between the employer and the worker installed in a collective contract or through tripartite social dialogue through the work of the economic social councils at the level of the county and national level. For us, there is no dilemma that it is true that the initial Labour Act or teaching collective agreements define Sundays of a week's vacation that it is necessary to remain that way and that the Labour, Regulation and collective agreement regulates the obligations of the employer and the rights of workers in case Sundays are done. Of course, we are also aware of the violations of workers' rights in this context and has it especially because of the lack of fair play among employers, their mutual unfair competition, the avoidance and obstruction and negotiation of a single collective contract to set standards and standards, the single collective bargaining for the level of activity. The fact that in Croatia we have an army of more than 350 thousand unemployed and the right of citizenship has been given the saying "You are lucky if you work". In such circumstances, there is also the fear of involving workers in trade unions, and of organising collective protection of their interests, and employers in a number of cases, indirect, sophisticated, perfided pressures make it impossible to organise workers. Therefore, it is primarily about trade union issues and problems, and problems of regulating the labour market through social dialogue rather than problems that can be solved through the amendment or addition of two or more provisions of the Labour Act. It is the right of every political party to propose amendments and additions to the Law, but it is also an obligation to respect the institutions that the state of Croatia has and which it develops, which are economic social councils, and at least of them to get an opinion on individual legislative proposals. By bypassing this path, we are reducing the achievements achieved so far in the development of the social state and social partnership and reducing the chances of further developing an interest coordination through the social partnership. What the state can certainly and what would ultimately bring to the greater revenue of the state budget, as well as the budget of the unit of local, regional self-government, is to give greater authority to labour inspection, staff and organisational strengthening, and make it a first-rate arbitration in the labour market. This means that labour inspection should also be given the control function of the application of laws, regulations and collective agreements in the overall content and not only in covering legal minimums, and that it should be given the dominant role of preventive action on the labour market through regular extraordinary controls of the application of the rules instead of the current rather than the current rather static position of action only in the event of infringement of the rules on the basis of the application. One such twist would give us a clear picture of the events on the labour market and could be more competent to assess the effects of the social dialogue as well as the deviations in the application of the Labour and Regulation and collective agreements. I mention them on purpose all the time because they're above the law and they apply directly. Therefore, the regulation, or above all collective agreements, can achieve more quality in regulating relations on the labour market. Although I have a lot of life and work experience on the labour market, I would not dare propose amendments to the Labour Act without an analysis of the implementation of the Labour Act by social partners, without their initiative, or at least one reasoned opinion. In this respect, I do not consider it appropriate to replace the opinion of one activity with one tree in the forest. Likewise, we in Croatia are not at peace with the current situation, and we support the conclusions of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health but we also propose an original idea. We propose that economic and social councils have them institutionalised throughout the cluster, so at the level of the state and county, design a public campaign, because we can do a lot of good to the public by means of an appropriate quality mark, but the quality of the implementation of workers' rights, marks those companies and employers, who have organized relationships with workers through a collective contract and which they fully implement, and fully implement activities from the work of the workers' participation domain through the work of unions, working councils and through the work of labour commissioners. Which means in the Labour Act that the employer needs to publicly explain the business and relations of the worker – employer at the conferences of the monks unless these meetings are held as provided for by the Law at least twice a year. Then we lost one proactive position where in a direct conflict the employer – the worker can encourage these issues can be encouraged by the union. The Croatian Party of Retired Persons cannot, without prior thorough analysis of the application of the Labour Act and the clear position of the social partners and without comparison with the solutions in most European countries, support this proposal. Trade unions that are one of our wealth that we may have too much for this size, have the duty and right, I underline the right and means of pressure and the organisation of trade union industrial actions, the protection of every member, or worker, against violations of the law and mistreatment, especially because of the suspicion of corruption. And they can do that if they really want to do what they're committed to, trade unions are more invited than we are to protect members' interests within the framework of laws and collective agreements. And finally, I ask the President of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, and you, Mr. President, to correct the proposed text of the conclusion that the Croatian Party of pensioners will vote in paragraph 3 since the Sunday formulation as an unworkable day comes out of context and has no basis for the Labour Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35658	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35659	Well Mr. Hrelja said a lot of inaccuracies, the first part of inaccuracy says there was no analysis of the law's implementation. Well, every day's analysis is done, the workers are left out of jobs, there's no payout, let's just talk to people for a little bit. The second part, he said that I incorrectly said that workers who report to the labour inspector that the employer violates their rights to remain without a working relationship he says he does not know. It's a shame he doesn't know, now you can see how I can help the pensioners when I can't even help the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35660	A colleague of Kovačević. You've come forward to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35661	So did Mr. Bitumen, so did I.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35662	Please. You don't have a word, you didn't get a word. You were not correcting the incorrect allegations, but you called to say that it was a shame that the representative of the Hrell expressed his opinion. That's what hurt the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35663	.. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bitumen, first of all, did not respond. You too hold on to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, I beg you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35664	I'm holding on. Don't take the word again, you didn't get the word, you can't get it, you can't perform this way in the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Hrelj, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35665	Mr. President, I cannot quote a member of the Rules of Procedure at this time, but I ask you to protect me from the arbitrary qualifications of Mr. Kovacevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35666	I did it. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please. At 10:23, it's time for an individual debate on this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35667	Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps this very last sentence by the President of the Parliament on how it would be worth considering how and how to speak in the Croatian Parliament. What is allowed, which is not only in terms of decency in our dealings with one another, but even in whether anything and everything can be suggested in this House only because we are elected representatives of the people, and where is the limit of what is rightly called social demagogy and how long is this social demagogy acceptable and allowed to function in a normal society? These 15 years of learning democracy, obviously it was very popular, so it was also likely to probatively share any promises, speak, rise even to what was not intimately thought could happen. I must say that this story of social demagogy cannot somehow be associated immediately with the first reading of the proposal offered by HSP colleagues in their proposal to amend the Labour Act. Why? Because what is about to be achieved by a proposal from HSP colleagues, not only not only to be achieved, but I am convinced that the opposite effects are also being achieved. So, not only would that, if it were not a proposal in favour of or towards the protection of workers, the protection of employees, but it was a step back. And social demagogy itself is dangerous, it's harmful, it's devastating because it's actually destructive, because it doesn't allow one constructive way to solve a problem. Social demagogy always ultimately leads to defetism, to the absence of real action. To demand here that Sunday be declared a working day the way it is sought in the proposal for the HSP law is counterproductive. If this were to be done only for shopkeepers, then it would certainly lead to the inequality of employees whose Sunday is a working day, is a working day. The one in HEP, the one in the tram, or the one in the hospital, she's working day, the truth with the increased living room. If such a solution were to be adopted, it would actually lead to the collapse of the entire system and I would say the legal equality of employees, and therefore to the collapse of standards established in the field of labour legislation. Likewise, this confusion in the system as a consequence of the likely desire to raise one smaller number of our employees does not take into account the fact that labour legislation must be observed as a whole. In 2003, we passed a reform of labour legislation that changed 11 important laws. It's about a very extensive reform. Tens and hundreds of institutes have been changed. The Labour Act includes 50 new protection institutes for Croatian workers. It is not surprising, therefore, that some 10 days ago, 15 days ago, I saw in Brussels the president of the Alliance of Independent Unions of Vesna Dejanovic said she joined the European Union protest, holding that what is offered in Europe as a reform attempt would mean that Croatia would accept an important step back in security for Croatian workers. It is therefore directly accepted, recognised by the unions that the legal protection of Croatian workers, so this last reform we made in 2003, was raised to a higher level and a higher standard than most European countries know. And it's not there, it's not controversial. Those laws have been preparing for three years. Dozens of analytical bases have been made, which should have shown in fact the state of legal certainty of the protection of Croatian workers. In a legislative sense, things are very complicated. But no one normal, reasonable and objective will say that Croatian workers are well, on the contrary. On the contrary. All present mobbing in the workplace, various forms of humiliation, insults, harassment people are everyday occurrences in our factories, in our offices. And here, in addition to the legal protection we have, we haven't found an effective way to prevent it. Unfortunately, despite legal protection, a large number of people still work on black, employers do not report them particularly in some activities. We still have, unfortunately, that statistics shows a huge number of people who are registered for minimum income and then something is given to them under the table, and what happens to their pensions, about who's keeping an eye on the future. We still have cases of short wages, still a few dozen thousands of workers working and not getting paid. And by that we are indeed a unique example, a unique case in Europe, perhaps in the world. It's still not following pretty clear rules on protection at work, and the workers are hurting us, getting killed, getting hurt at work. These are all serious, huge problems that we need to talk about, not conveniently before the election, not demagogical, but systematically solve the way in which those parts of the system that are responsible will actually do their job. Here, first of all, I mean that the inspection, the inspection services that we failed to get to the level that they could effectively respond to their work, their mission, that our unions that are not our advantage, that we have six hundred and thirty. There were so many of them a year and a half ago, I don't know how many now. Union pluralism, unlike political pluralism, is not a good thing. These trade unions are still so numerous probably some of them and founded as yellow trade unions by employers cannot perform their function effectively. Work disputes are still taking place too long. We have introduced provisions in the Labour Obligation Act that labour disputes have priority, that they must be dealt with immediately and that each worker must actually be, therefore, solve his problem when it comes to courts but even more important, and that this cannot be done by any single law, and in particular not by such palitative partial changes, one climate must be created in society and social consideration that every person who violates labour law must know that he will experience a conviction not only moral, public, but also marketable. To create a state and encourage civil courage. I know dozens of cases where investigators went to the scene on anonymous tips and couldn't determine anything because no one dared to fear losing their jobs and say something about what actually happened in their companies. Well, if you'd like to go to large companies where the workers are supposed to want to be protected in this way. The biggest problem and the biggest labour injustice and the biggest injustice that can be done to anyone is unemployment. Unfortunately, Croatia is currently registering a return to unemployment and is not just about seasonal growth, it is not just about that. For the first time in four years, we now have more unemployed in, say, February than was in February a year before that. After we resolved the devastating consequences and poor privatisation and forcing people into retirement, etc., after in 2000 we actually inherited about 500 thousand unemployed people 357 thousand were reported and another 150 thousand worked and did not receive the salary. After we put that number down to 320 thousand, and even at one point fell below 300 thousand in the last year, we're back on the number of 330 thousand unemployed, and that's the biggest social injustice and that's the biggest source of violation right of unemployment. This whole problem can therefore not be solved in this partial way, and I, on behalf of the club, plead on all of us to be when these sensitive categories of people and our citizens are meant to be of maximum consideration, not to manipulate both unconsciously and without intent, not to manipulate the suffering of people who are really not easy and who, in certain cases, are hard to live and difficult to create their rights. Let us try to make the system more efficient and give up our intention to change the laws daily in the belief that this and reality will make our normative optimism different. That's why it takes a lot more than the changes offered by our HSP colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35668	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Tonči Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35669	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! The main word mentioned in the last half hour in the Croatian Parliament was demagogy and social demagogy. So, again in the context of amendments to the Labour Act, moreover, in the context of frequent amendments to the Labour Act. I will remind former Minister Vidovic here that he has twice changed the Labour Act in 2001, 2003, and that as a claustrone, a little on the side of the union, a little from the unions both claiming that the changes were in line with the social partners and they were definitely not because we from HSP would not be giving amendments exactly on behalf of part of the social partners. But the most interesting thing is both times claiming that this change is the last one and that this law is perfect. It's hard to believe there's a perfect labour law. We believe that we can always fix some part of the Labour Act but in any case at least the one who is acute and acute are these two problems. In the rest, I repeat, we will not engage until we receive such an instruction from the social partners. As far as demagogy is concerned, it is demagogy to install Mr. Vidovic into the law prohibiting the dismissal of workers who report corruption like you did and not install a penalty for that ban. It's an eclectic example of demagogy but I didn't want to tell you until you provoked me to it. That's why I want to reduce the tension here in the debate. I want this law to be discussed responsibly, to realize that the Croatian Parliament is ready to go on such an amendment or that it is not ready to go on such an amendment. To establish that labour rights are sufficiently protected and that we do not have cases of reporting corruption and that these workers will, for the sake of the inspection that we have and how it works, be protected or say that this is not the case and that we have to do something about it. I don't agree with those like Mr. Hrelja who say it's enough inspection to encourage him to do it when we all know it's not enough. We need to cut the space for those who want to break the Labour Act, so that the inspection if anything else makes the job easier. And we think we're going to do that if we make this kind of change in a law like this. So it's just that we in HSP never thought that we should go to the amendments to the Labour Act exclusively to protect the workers in the store because it's not just the workers in the store who work on Sundays. Sundays work many but we want this work to be paid on Sundays, we want it to be paid in particular. We want Sunday to be treated like a holiday. We want it to be done on Sundays by whoever wants it and gets paid in particular, and it will only be possible if it is not part of a working week as the rest of the week is not even a holiday. That's the essence of our change. Therefore, please do not plant that we want to treat shop workers separately from others or that we want to prohibit work on Sundays. Secondly, as far as people who report corruption are concerned, we really believe that the existing ban is ineffective if there is no adequate punishment. What do you need an inspection report, which will make any threats to your employer if he has no punishment over him for such a thing, and there is no punishment in the law. That's what this is about. Or perhaps you find it all unnecessarily unnecessary. If so, why did the law even include a provision prohibiting the dismissal of workers who report corruption. We think it was a good step, Mr. Vidic, which you did but unfortunately it was half-step because there was no punishment. We're actually completing it in some way now and there's no reason to argue about it with each other who started it first and who finished it first. I believe that in this House there is a firm intention of all MPs to improve labour legislation and that there is a firm will of all MPs to amend the Labour Law. And I repeat, none of us in HSP will ever agree to amendments to the labour law that will go to harm Croatian workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35670	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35671	It is incorrect that counterpart Vidovic has changed the Labour Act twice. The labour law is changing here in the Assembly and changing this Parliament in a way that only in this short time I say a mandatory pay-out deadline has been established, the rate of salary increases for work on holidays, holidays, day off and week off, so if it works on Sundays. The right to strike has been established for the sake of non-payment of salaries which was not until then. In the end, the concept of workers and workers was introduced in relation to the former employee of the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35672	The Honorable Representative Silvano Hrelja is making a second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35673	I'm correcting the incorrect allegations because I didn't say it was necessary to encourage labour inspection but to give her the authority to human and organisational team and give her a dominant preventive role and that's an important difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35674	And a third. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35675	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for what she was correcting and my colleague Zgrebec, I would still hope that sexual harassment of workers and workers by employers was incriminating, until then. And it is also incorrect that he said to counterpart Tadic, because in his proposal, he himself explains, therefore, the monetary penalty of 100 thousand kunas and precisely for firing the worker who reported corruption but the promoter considers it and we can also consider it and agree that the projected fine of 100 thousand kunas, as the proposer himself states in his explanation for the dismissal of workers, is not enough, but the cash equivalent of 100 thousand euros is transferred. Here's your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35676	You guys check in after the hearing when it's next. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35677	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of Parliament, this law has four articles actually written to launch a debate on Sunday's work, or so on. The whistles. Now, at work on Sundays, as the HSP suggests, there will be a club IDS that will be restrained, but that's where we'll support you. Let's remember the year back Croatian caritas is if I'm not mistaken, Archbishop Prenja has collected those 300 thousand signatures in support of that law on trade to suspend work on Sundays. But while the archbishop Prenje's initiative gave birth to a clumsy law that was later abolished by the Constitutional Court by such an initiative where 400 thousand kunas were collected did not go well, which is good but was a little undemocratic. I agree in this country there is a layer of people working on Sundays. I agree that it is necessary to deepen the civic awareness that most of its community does not confirm the efforts of another but the exit is not in the ban on Sundays. Exactly as we all know about this contract between the Holy chair and the Republic of Croatia, we all know that international contracts have power over the law and that is simply true. But the worker needs to be paid, he needs rest, he needs to be guaranteed all other rights especially if he works on Sundays. Sunday should be paid as a holiday, this should be the point, however, it does not stand in this legislative proposal. The inspectors, on the other hand, need to control workers' rights, to control vacations, wages, and not whether trade works, to me that means the point. Then finally, why would anyone work Sundays? What makes the state on the one hand the right to force them to work and on the other hand to defend work on Sundays? So I say one more time, you have to pay Sunday as a holiday. How it is in Europe even though we should leave Croatia just a little bit first. Croatian gentlemen live on trade and imports. The European Union is a little bit of industry, little of trade, little of tourism, little of exports, etc., but that is the important difference between Croatia and the Western European country. We are exclusively gentlemen living off that trade and import. We're talking all the time about the unemployed, 330,000 people, we're asking for people to get jobs, wherever they're going to get jobs in the industry that isn't in this country. In one Lenac, I don't know Valpovo or maybe he'll go to a hotel on the Adriatic that's only been open for two months a year and two-thirds of these hotel houses deal with losses. Who invests in the Republic of Croatia? No one should be funny about it. What's the fastest thing in Croatia to grow? Trades on the one hand, or banks. So let them work, but let the workers also be paid, and let their rest be redistributed. There are examples I don't know in Mercator, I've been told by women where they simply ask to work on Sundays clearly if they're paid for it because then I can take the day off on Monday at a time when their husband works so that they're two, three days more with children, so there are different examples. I'm also aware that it's not easy for anyone, it's not easy for these small owners, the small merchants who opened the store to open their jobs, the same gentlemen need to be appreciated and God isn't easy for me, not even for the workers. Maybe even, I dare say harder to those little merchants. Don't think that they're given something, they're all in debt, they have to guarantee all their assets, none of these people have Fridays or saints, and that's the same thing to take care of. They have to pay salaries, they have to pay VAT, they have to pay goods, customs, rent, everything in the current month or even in advance, and as it is simple, we see when we list the National Journals, those medium-sized parties and we see how many such small companies end up in bankruptcy in the Republic of Croatia every month. It's very different with these big chains, for some we know how they came into existence, by the grace of the government and others, it's also true that by their appearance they destroy these small merchants, the arrival of a large one in general destroys, 20 or 30 small, a large employment of 100 workers, but they'll run out of work for the young, let's say 200. The truth is also affecting prices, they fall, I don't know, Mr Hebrang said that in 2000 and some in Croatia have entered as many as 16 of these large trade chains, but then our citizens don't go shopping for goods in Italy, Austria and elsewhere, so there's this foreign exchange balance that's changing. Sunday is, I agree with the Saint, it is true and rude to ask now why I don't know why I serve Mass on Sundays, why priests work on Sundays but it's also rude if you travel from Rijeka to Zagreb on Sundays and after 21 let's say you don't have anywhere to pour gasoline and if I don't cheat on Sundays and police and firemen and tram drivers, and TV leaders, journalists and football players, work and warlords, cattlemen don't have any saints or Fridays, etc. Now whether this introduction of Sunday as an unworkable day in stores can lead to a violation of the freedom of believers who do not have a day of rest. Let's say the Jews celebrate Saturday, the adventists celebrate Saturday, Islamic believers have the main prayer on Friday, so this Labour Act should define a one-day vacation without a day's notice. And it is clear that in the Republic of Croatia it will be Sunday in 95% of our citizens, so it will remain. It cannot be simply different in a country, in such a country as the Republic of Croatia. For believers, they should introduce themselves to celebrate their day according to their convictions only if it is always possible to organize that production cycle again on the other hand. If someone, I don't know now, is going to rush to church for a week off. Come on. The one who went will go the other way. The one who didn't go doubting that he would now start using that day on Sunday, and with that remark that the closer the church becomes to power, the more empty it will be for her. The problem of religious freedoms is clear that it can be great, but also sometimes the problem is where to buy Sunday bread. True, some workers are exposed to one raw exploitation and must be fought against. Mr. Vidovic said that in the country we have 30, 40,000 still people who work in insolvency months and businesses and months do not receive salaries. Now, how did this problem solve Europe? Like this. Sweden has no restrictions on Sundays and holidays. The most liberal country in Europe. Neither does the UK for small shops have restrictions, but the big ones can only work from 10 to 18 hours. So, on the holidays, on Sundays. Belgium, the Netherlands and Italy determine the number of working weeks. For example, in Italy in December, everyone works while in Germany shops can work for 80 hours, so they decide when to work. Is it important, for Christmas, how they're doing it. In Greece and Spain, and we will tell the Spanish that they are papal and papal, these tourist areas are excluded from the ban. Gentlemen, make sure the tourist season goes too, that the season will also have to be organised and that it will have to work on Sundays. And now the question arises whether it is up to the government or whether things should be left to lower levels. I'd even say some small goods stores, like, I don't know, have to work in the season because of the city's image, so to speak, all the time. And I almost dare say that the most endangered category or one of the most endangered categories of citizens of the Republic of Croatia are small craftsmen. The workers, the ones who were lucky and I was saying it yesterday, were given the opportunity to buy an apartment in the early '90s, the directors to buy factories through conversion and privatisation. The peasants will come into possession of the country, craftsmen in the so-called social spaces to the business space, which is the basis of their work. Only craftsmen who have the space of local self-government can get nothing. I'm not saying they're in a worse position than 330 thousand unemployed, those workers who work don't get paid. If they were in a worse position than pensioners, tenants, sick, etc., but somewhere behind them I'd almost put them. It was interesting to follow, I did a little list and this statement of the Association of Newspapers a year ago. They also ask for an amendment, as they asked for an amendment to the law because the law threatens to shut down Sunday editions, and then perhaps someone might interpret, I don't know, a coup on newspapers or freedom of the press. They then calculated that the news loss could be 10 to 15% of their income or about 130 million kuna per year from which the state would lose 23.4 million kuna to VAT alone. But due to not getting out, say, newspapers and merchants could lose about 20 million kunas. So, one law like this, that's what I mean, it costs. Who's it cost? It costs the state, costs the merchants, costs the citizens, costs, I don't know, newspaper houses, those who make the goods. This law will certainly reduce the number of employees. Finally, I think the problem in Croatia is not why trades work on Sundays if they work, but why 95% of traders in the Republic of Croatia hire workers for a certain working time rather than a permanent working relationship. That's actually the point, that's the point, but the question of whether or not they can do it. As far as the whistle provision is concerned, I said so, we will support it as I support this law yesterday on conflict of interest. It should even launch an initiative to rehabilitate people who have reported corruption in the Republic of Croatia, and then run out of work. Even though every nation, even so, will think of our authority that it is corrupt unless it is good for him. If he's okay, then he'll think the government is fair, etc. If the people live badly, the most honest government for them will be thieves, criminals, bandits, etc., etc. What's the meaning of these whistle-squeezing norms? These norms or these norms, gentlemen, can only extend above public enterprises. In private, I said, hiring for a certain working time is 95% of the time. We're not gonna do anything about it, we're not gonna do anything about it. But I agree that where they should be most sensitive these are precisely these public utility companies, i.e. the ministries, the State budget, etc. So, once again, I'm going to say that this law only protects public service employees. In private, unfortunately not, and let's not be distracted by the fact that somewhere around 600, maybe 700 thousand people are working precisely in these small private companies and what we're doing here right now. Perhaps, on the other hand, it would be a good idea for some of the joint labour laws that existed until 2001 to return to legal life because some of the workers would certainly be in a better position than they are now. All in all, I think that this legislative proposal must go to another reading, and then this article 2 will certainly adjust a little to the opportunities that, because it should be realistic at least. In one word, the club IDS supports HSP in 3 articles, in one no.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35678	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35679	So I'm correcting an incorrect quote even though I think my colleague Cain was thinking of using another day as a week's vacation. Because the category and procedure of redistribution in the Labour Act does not exist, and it redistributed something else. And secondly, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that the law does not protect employees. The law is a minimum framework for all employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35680	Second correction, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35681	Mr. President, colleague Cain is completely wrong to say that this law and the introduction of Sunday is for the sake of the believers. That's just not true. And his suggestion to determine any other day, or no other day, than to say one day of a week’s vacation. Such a provision would be completely contrary to the 106 Convention on weekly rest, would be completely contrary to the International Treaty Croatia concluded. Because Sunday is a tradition in Croatia, Sunday is a tradition in Europe, and if Croatia is trying to Europe, then it must also adhere to its traditions. When we belong to another area, we may think about another day.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35682	And the esteemed representative, Ruža Lelic. You didn't pick that up? Replica, respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35683	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I absolutely agree with those who say that the protection of workers is in line with justified efforts to detect and prevent corruption. However, I'd just... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35684	Kola Kovacevic, a colleague of Josipovic, answered for the replica, I give him the word for the replica. ... No matter how, how... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35685	Did we both get confused? ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35686	Oh, yeah, you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35687	I'm probably confused about this shovel.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35688	Don't be, thank you very much, don't be. It's good. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We've completed an individual hearing, thank you for your warning. We're going to an individual debate by clubs and we're done arguing. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35689	Thank you, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In this proposal, the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Act wants to create an impression or at least I say to the Proposer that he wants to protect workers in one way. Already, he noted on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, counterpart Davorko Vidovic, and noted that during the coalition government, the Law on Trades was just amended where Sunday's major trade chains were banned. Because this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, therefore the basic provisions are that Sunday be declared a workless act and better protected or better protected, or to provide for fines, at a significant amount to be fired by the worker or employer, who would fire the worker for reporting corruption. It should also be noted for the time of the coalition government, a ratified civil legal convention on corruption, and on the basis of this ratification, an amendment to the labour law is also adopted where a ban on such behaviour is currently provided for by the employer, and this is, in any event, considered to be one of the progress made in this regard. But let's go back to Sunday as an unworkable day, as proposed by this bill. When we talk about it at all, no one thinks about cops at this point, about all those doctors, nurses, journalists, actors about all those jobs they've always done on Sundays, which is not questionable at all. We all remember then what a special problem has been with us since the 1990s, and especially when so much eager foreign capital has come and opened these big trade chains, we all remember then and with the right of workers and the most workers working on Sundays in trade and especially in these trade chains. You don't need to be an inspector, I don't know what to do in these cases of inspection, enough to be ordinary and neither a customer, but a citizen who wants to walk around these trade chains, to see that one of those same, and not a worker, there are workers but the most workers, therefore perhaps a small addition to fellow Caine who has said whose position is at this point in Croatia's most difficult, is the most difficult position perhaps the truth is that I agree with the workers but even more difficult is the position of the workers. They've been working since morning, and if you come in this afternoon while you've had lunch and rested, she's still sitting at the cash register or standing. Why not mention if we all know that in particular and who to protect, and are we afraid here too, frightened by large capital, we here in the Parliament speaker often call each other and the names of the natural person being named and nobody mentions the bearers of that big capital, no one mentions the singer who has in the middle of the winter, I have seen several of his famous shops, down there is a concrete up there turnite and does not warm up in the winter, and there are workers who for a very short time who suffer from sexual illness, a threatened reproductive apparatus in that cold for 12 hours, and we really have to imagine what in this particular case to do. The time has come to answer very specifically, I don't think there's a Sunday issue here as a day off, not a doctor or nurse or some public services being paid, because mostly because the public sector is having a day off, they also have two days off if they worked on Sundays, they talk about those people exploiting the most uninhabitable large capital. Which does not come to mind so that in the land from which he has been denied and from which he has come he behaves. It's exploiting in a way that doesn't respect the basic norms of our right, which we don't respect either, but they're even more distasteful. Ours is as controlled as they are, they are at all. When the workers report it, someone tipped them off, and then the employees who are employed who are not registered are forced to jump out the window, this is the case with one hotel in Zadar and hide in the bushes until the inspection passes. This should be spoken of without any malice and without any constraint, these are the topics of genuine protection of workers. Because like this, we'll ban Sunday's work, and then those trade chains won't work, and I think those who are conscious are punished, and this is the opportunity to talk about them. However, care for Croatian workers because of the possible lifting of the ban on working on Sundays in such a way as not to be seen and these aspects do seem inconclusive. Moreover, some workers are also interested in their jobs, and they would rather work on Sundays if they are asked to do so than to sit at home hungry. However, the question arises as to how the worker was paid by overtime, and whether he was paid at all for Sunday work, and everything would be very simple to resolve that the worker simply has the right to choose. IT IS his whether he will work on Sundays and that the employer is obliged to make such work if he is offered at least twice as much to see how many would really work on Sundays but in any case, the possibility of such choices and inspections to be controlled should be left. It is not a painful job of inspectors, but whether or not what counterpart Vidovic was saying on behalf of the SDP whether we have real seriousness, is really willing to deal with this problem, otherwise this will remain at the level of the declaration and cosmetics. So, during the coalition government, we have provided for just a ban on quitting, we should see, make the Ministry do an analysis of what has been done, or how these norms are implemented, and whether it has ever been applied because it is pointless to increase the penalty but to predict punishment but so far no one has even been reported. In fact, you have an absurd situation to report conscious employers from non-working workers, and those who truly do suffer different humiliations and what I think, and we also have a whole series of laws, here in the Law on a litigation procedure where the state as an employer is obliged to recognise all the obvious claims, whether they seem to be, and to what extent the state is obliged to employers. We also continued to improve the position of workers during the coalition government through criminal measures, so the strictest thing to do is to turn that mere declaration of payment rights violations into a crime of non-payment of wages. Unfortunately, we did not get the support of the authorities in that sense, or the opposition at the time, because for this very reason we did not have the necessary majority, this legislative provision, or the whole novel, of amending the Penal Code which was significant and just to protect workers' rights, fell into the water. So it's being asked here and on this other question, how to encourage people to do all those illegalities they're exposed to to protect and encourage them. Here's one letter of all the signed ones, but people are still praying, because they're hoping, there's still this despair of what's happening to them in the business, and even in the state services, they've been asking them not to get their name out, but they say, we have a prequalification contract in the Police Department, but to get a permanent job based on the completed Academy and requalification contracts, they're asking me to move to the HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35690	Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35691	Well, Mrs. Ingrid has said a lot of examples that point to the fact that it's good that the HSP Club has gone with the amendment and addition of this law. Speaking of cases of workers, I can say concrete cases of workers in Pevec who work 326 hours has a monthly fund which unfortunately could not achieve his rights, and when he complained, he was given a regular, or extraordinary discharge. That's why we started it, so I was talking on behalf of the HSP Club. One part of the Labour Act is that we have already prepared amendments and additions to the State Inspectorate Act, but we are waiting, since the Government promised when we discussed this session that it would present this proposal these days. So we'll wait for the government for another two weeks if they don't, then we'll go to the realization of it. Because the real problem is that Mr. Vidovic was saying there is paper protection for workers. But inspections do not have the authority or the mode of conduct to do so, that means that their final solutions have the power of the executive I.D. That's why, so it's one part about the Labour Act, and the other part about this State Inspectorate Act, because that's the only way we're going to be able to establish a system. The second we were told that we had given this bill to this election. It's incorrect. We submitted our proposal to the Law on January 21st. Therefore, January 21st. Secondly, we had no intention of saying what Mr. Vidovic said about demagogy. So he also calls the Catholic Church in Croatia that which also pointed to the need to protect workers, work on Sundays to protect, give birth, pregnant women, older workers, you're saying it's the same demagogy? Therefore, it is not about demagogy, but if we have constitutional powers, then let us carry them out in action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35692	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35693	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Righteous gave the bill of law with two intentions. To protect workers from the bossing of employers and to declare Sunday a working day. First of all, the workman's giggling. Are workers in Croatia scrambling? Oh, yeah, rough, hard, and often. They're being swept around, who and how they want to, sometimes the least they can hope for. How's the worker protection? There she is. There is a law, but in life she is weak. Because those laws don't apply either. Is there a better example than the one in our community? We colleagues and colleagues removed our colleague's immunity a few days ago at the request of a state attorney. So that he could be prosecuted. For what? It's because of the job-scitation. What did our colleague Puplić do? He refused to execute a court order to get the worker back to work. It's a court decision. Mr. Pivlić, therefore, first fired the worker, apparently completely illegal, because the court would not have returned him to work. And then when the court ordered him to return to work, Mr. Piploic, as an employer, refused to execute such a court order, so now the State's Attorney's office is asking for prosecution to be carried out. Now! Radnik Piplovic, when he has an appointment on a working day Tuesday after Easter Monday, does not carry out his work obligation. The worker Piploić will not work on a working day, and employer Piploić fires the worker and will not take him back to work. When the worker Piplopic is told that he should still come to work on Tuesday, because all other people work for God on Tuesday, all other people work on Tuesday, then Mr. Piploic warns him mildly that it is a working day, that it should work, says you have no idea what Easter is, because you don't have that day. Well, because of such words, Mr. Piplovic, today a prominent columnist in Free Dalmatia, writes: "Some DC genius named Frano Piploic attacked politicians from the opposition on the parliamentary committee of words. You have no idea what Easter is, because you don't have that day. The conscious Catholic Piploić thinks, poor and ignorant, etc. Says the journalist and continues. That's what Piploic said on the Assembly's committee, it's embarrassing, and it's even more embarrassing as long as such an ignorant has come." It's a finished quote. So, worker Piploić doesn't work if he has to work, employer Piploić illegally fires the worker. And in the opinion of the state's attorney, he's committing a felony by refusing to return the worker to work. What can colleagues and colleagues hope for? Why in this country when a parliamentary representative does that? For what? Their position is poor, their position is such indeed the gentleman's rights should be further protected. I agree with you that if the fine of 100 thousand kuna is introduced into the law that it is too small a punishment. And that such a punishment for shagging workers would have to be 100,000 euros. So if Mr. Piploic had to pay 100,000 euros out of his pocket then they'd see if he'd fire the worker illegally next time. And because of Piplovic, we strongly support this measure, gentlemen. Strong. Sunday. I must say, I must actually protect myself from what will happen if we declare this law to me in this sentence? Sunday's a bad day. What's going to happen in life? Will hospitals stop receiving patients? Will they stop working? Will doctors, nurses stop coming to work on Sundays? Will the trams stop driving? Will the pilots not be flying planes? Will the entire airport staff not work, shall we cancel all international flights on Sundays? What will happen to tourists, we are a tourist country? Will it happen to them that no one serves them lunch on Sunday? So no one can clean their rooms? If we adopt this bill, will it happen that TV screens will be black on Sunday? Because journalists won't work, etc. I'm sure that won't happen. Because it's impossible for that to happen, life runs on Sundays. Some services have to work on Sundays. Nobody's looking forward to it. And gentlemen, I think things should be approached like this, sober and reasonable. Not to encourage work on Sundays, discourage it, and ban it from working in all those services that are not necessary for life to take place. But we can't, in general, completely put an end to Sunday's work. It is necessary to protect workers who, due to technological processes, have to work on Sundays, protect them in a way that they have the right on a different day. And more importantly, that week has been paid especially well. So if they have to work on Sundays to get a double or triple daily on that Sunday, because then we're going to detimize employers to keep their companies open and on Sundays if they don't get paid because they won't pay if they're going to have to pay a lot of workers and they're still making a lot of money on their salaries. It will not be worth it to them. It means trying to do everything to destimulate work on Sundays, to affirm Sundays as a day off as many people as possible, but we can't be cruel in that, we can't cut off the axe, we can't say if now no one can or can't do it on Sundays because it wouldn't be a good solution, it wouldn't be a lifeline. So think about this proposal a little bit, groom it up, I think it's possible to find a solution because I think everyone in this House is interested in finding such a solution. And as for this right of workers, as for the protection of workers against... Your employer here, as I have already said, I fully support you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35694	Thank you very much. By our Constitution, everyone is innocent until it is determined by a final judgment. You have discussed, colleague Stazic, the proposed law that speaks is proposed to impose a ban on Sundays and to protect workers from applying for corruption and bribes as a final fact, as an example of MP Fran Piplovic as if it were a finished and clear thing. There's an indictment proposal. The Parliament has made a decision approving the conduct of the criminal proceedings but I am obliged as President of the Parliament to protect the reputation and dignity of all MPs and to quote that comment from "Free Dalmatia" and quote and something else that is beyond this context, the work in the commission that you are presidents are as an example, as an obvious conclusion and as an indisputable fact of a verdict that has not been reached, which is neither by this nor by power, but has just been initiated. I think you passed one in that debate, that you presented Agent Fran Piplovic as an example of a person who violates labour rights, does not execute a court ruling. It's just a reflection. I remind you that the Constitution says that every citizen, every innocent, is innocent until it is determined by a judicial verdict. I don't think it was in the spirit of a tolerance or a spirit that should rule in this Croatian Parliament. And the esteemed representative Frano Piploic, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35695	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I would thank my distinguished colleague, Nenad Stazic, with all my heart for this one pledoa. I didn't expect such a set of commendations. Probably if I was trying to say it on Croatian television on some special show it would cost me a lot of money, this is how he did it for me and thank him for the honors he has given me. As for his attacks, evaluations and evaluations, I've been used to this assessment and assessment by his communist traders who provided him with all this information and these evaluations and evaluations that he made regarding the dismissal of an employee in the former company where I worked. In this House, I made it clear that I could not implement that decision for the reasons that I stated, means that there were extra workers and that I could not implement that decision, that the company's account was blocked, etc., etc. But let my colleague Stazic and his colleagues do what he does and do. Second, regarding this company itself, this was again done by his communist contemporaries from Slavonski Brod and done so by leading the procedure to deal with me and many others in Slavonski Brod. His invitation to a respected colleague who wrote this journalistic paper in "Free Dalmatia" can be assessed as follows, that it is not any prominent economist but a kind of nonsense as it is in our media and in the social public who mutilate the water along and across the board. I know that a colleague also bothers that I was in his session where we agreed on the work of the commission to say that a respected colleague does not understand what the spirit of the Easter is. And these are the facts of an esteemed colleague and you have abused it. I have no intention of leading the controversy here with you about it but I would really ask you to respect those rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament spoken of by the President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35696	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35697	As far as the final or the unfinished things of the court are concerned, it is clear that it is not finished. She'll be finished when the verdict's final. For the worker, unfortunately, it's finished, he doesn't work. And it's not a respected court decision to get him back to work. Unfortunately for him, it's over. I don't know what he lives on. I don't know what it feeds the family from. As far as communist tradesmen and like-minded people are concerned, Mr. Pipplić, I don't have communist trabants and like-mindeds because I've never been a member of the Communist Party unlike you who were the secretary of the Municipal Committee of the Slavonski Brod Municipality in the last term. And I hear that in the Vozdovac municipality in Belgrade, you've done a similar duty before.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35698	Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35699	No, the answer is this to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35700	Yeah, but I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35701	No, I'm not finished. So go look for your comrades there from these two bodies and discuss Communism with them and the trabants of the communists. As for your assessment that one journalist is a jerk, which the columnist does, and that the leper is illiterate, you'll have to explain it to him and perhaps to the entire journalistic profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35702	Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go. And you are? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35703	Thank you very much, even though I'm not a famous flyer for being good for me and Slaven. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Stazic, who said that our bill establishes a ban on working on Sundays. There is no provision in our bill, but our bill says Sunday doesn't belong on weekdays. It's an important difference and we never stood up for it because it's always the rule. This means that all those others who need to work will continue to work and whoever works then must be paid properly and should be carried out in the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35704	And another correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35705	Mr. President, gentlemen! My fellow Stazić, if you had compassion for the responsibility of the working class and the employees, then you would not have forgotten what the SDP, or coalition authority, did in 2000. In the first three months, you've replaced 35 ambassadors and general consuls. Have you forgotten about the Croatian police officers who were on strike in St. John's Square for 509 days? Mark? Have you forgotten, gentlemen, what you did at the Department of Defense, leaving people out of work overnight? What did you do on Croatian TV all that had the omens of Croatian change? What you did in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35706	Thank you, my dear colleague. This is not a correction to an incorrect quote. No, I don't. No, don't, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Use the instrumentation of the replica but not correcting the incorrect quote because what you state does not apply to the quote, nor to the correction of the incorrect quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35709	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, here's around this law whose proposing representatives of the HSP Club here have been said today that it is social demagogy, I would say that this law is in any case unfair to workers because it does not solve their problems. I thought that the intensity of this Law was somehow to supplement the Labour Act in a way that better protected workers, but in the end I heard that it wasn't really the main intensity but that the intensity to bring this Law into line with the Treaty with the Holy See. So, once again, the workers are not at our highest priority, but the alignment of the contract with the Holy See. To me, the most controversial article is the second one in which Sundays are declared on an unworkable day because of the question that many colleagues have asked before me, and that is, does that mean that on that day, neither doctors nor nurses, nor guards, nor bakers, nor drivers, nor INE workers, so all those who have to work to make life run, does that mean that they will not work in this way as the Law is written? I said that this law does not solve the problem of the protection of workers and workers' rights, and all those who attempt to intervene in labour rights in this way must also see what we will see with the protection of minors who find work inspectors in certain businesses, do not have good mechanisms to protect them, not to do, which we will do with law enforcement in which we would, for example. Women who are suffering from cancer should be moved to some difficult, therefore, industrial activities to other jobs where they are much easier to work, where their health is not further compromised, you have, for example, textile industrial activities in other jobs where they find it much easier to work where their health is not further compromised, you have, for example, a textile industry where a worker who is operated on cancer remains working on ironing, ironing is a heavy kilo and a half, daytime on the norm rises several hundred times, so absolutely something that can only accelerate the disease in a few months and takes her two metres underground. Therefore, my dear gentlemen, the Labour Act, which exists to protect workers is not implemented, and that is not a problem Sunday whether it will be a day off, whether it will be a holiday, whether it will be called one or the other. What we have as good protection mechanisms of workers is not implemented. What about the rights of workers who do not receive wages, what about workers who work in conditions in which, according to all medical parameters, in 10 years, people turn into difficult invaluable gifts? What are we gonna do with all this? No one's talking about it, but we all do Sundays as a day off, and we present it as a great care and care for the workers. What about the other six days of the week where workers' rights are violated? I'm against being hypocritical to the workers and saying that we'd like to protect you Sunday if you weren't working in some activities, so, just in some, but the fact that the other six days are being violated by your fundamental, working, human rights doesn't really matter. So, according to the Labour Act, the day of rest is Sunday, if it isn't Sunday, then it's another day of the week, and that's what we have to fight for, so that this part of the Labour Act is respected and that if people have to do it on Sundays, then it pays extra. When it comes to shopkeepers, it should be said that indeed these workers do not have almost any rights. As my colleague Ingrid said most often, it's about 90 and a few percent of women employed, so a woman's workforce that has no rights whatsoever. In addition to receiving extremely low salaries, that woman is not on Sundays, my dear gentlemen, from Mondays to Sundays working 12 hours a day, overtimes are not paid, minimum wages are paid every month, which means they have no chance of not going to be sick, because the second month will not be extended, they have no chance of deciding to have a family and stay pregnant because the moment they monitor their child's first increase in so that the child's growth in their abdomen gets a second month of termination of the contract, or not extending the new contract for the next month. They're real store workers and we're saying let's protect their rights and free them from working on Sundays, hypocritically, unfairly towards these people. Which is why trade chains that have arrived in Croatia and some European Union countries do not think of working in their home countries from which they came. It doesn't occur to them, for example. to keep workers so low-paying, it doesn't occur to them that they don't pay taxes and contribute as they do to us, they don't think they have illegal employees like they do to us. So why does it not occur to those employers who come mainly from these countries that work well in our country to work in their own country? So because they have a system that makes them follow the law and that the law respects and protects workers' rights. Otherwise, my dear gentlemen, the key in the lock, no more work. In addition to the enormous penalties that are paid, it happens that if any irregularities happen again, a whole chain can be closed and you are banned from opening that activity for centuries and you will think a little bit about what you will do for the rest of your life and how you will secure your own pension. Therefore, the problem of protecting labour rights in this country is that we have not built a system that would force employers to comply with the laws. Someone here yesterday said it's not the work inspectors' problem. It's the mistrials. I found the report, perhaps there's a report in 2004, but I found a report from the State Inspectorate in 2003 that, for example, He says that labour inspectors performed 13 785 surveillance with 13,000 172 employers and 17,000 775 violations were detected. Therefore, a number of illegal employees were also observed, so foreigners who worked there without work permits, however 6277 infringements were filed and only 1166 requests were resolved. So, the problem is that misdemeanor courts put most of such cases into statutes, secondly, when they solve them by setting the lowest possible penalties for employers. I don't know if it's necessary for us in our legal system to say no more possibility from up to, I don't know, 5,000 kuna to 100,000 kuna, but to say it's 100,000 kuna so we don't leave any more room for a judge to determine the least possible financial penalty. What I am, for example. In this report, the State Inspectorate is indeed something that concerns, because it says this: there is a possibility for some of the infringements to be imposed at the scene of the offence, but how rare it is for the perpetrator to pay the same. It's really unspeakable. So you still have to beg him, will you pay the fine because you're violating labour rights? He says, then it would follow the inspector's passing of a misdemeanor order, which is usually followed by an objection, and eventually again the Court of Justice decides on the same. So, my dear gentlemen, all of us here who have really the right intention to deal with the protection of workers' rights must, as my colleague Vidovic said seriously sit down, justified, see where the key problems are. And finally, it seems to me until a political decision is made in this country and until there is a certain critical mass that there is a political will for many employers to put the key in the lock and close them, that without such measures, no relationship between workers and employers will take place. And they won't protect the workers' rights. All what is well written in the law will remain only a letter on paper, and in reality we will have a difficult violation of labour rights and from time to time we will have these attempts to make some partial laws, in fact in a very unfair way trying to talk about protection, so-called protection of labour rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35710	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35711	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm just correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague that this law was not passed for the protection of workers but some kind of arrangement with the Holy See. I think this law has been quite passed for the protection of workers because we've been doing it in agreement with the workers. And besides, I don't see any reason why if this law is so missing, I don't see any reason why a colleague doesn't bring herself, doesn't propose his own law that protects workers. And I see even less reason why she didn't pass some law when she was in power and she could. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35712	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35713	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Opacic. In her debate, counterpart Opačić argued that the Croatian Party's proposal for law provides for a ban on Sundays which, of course, is not true and cannot be read from the text of the bill. The HSP suggests that the parliament declare Sunday a day off with all the positive effects for workers who would make such a decision. We don't propose a ban on Sundays and it doesn't say anything in our proposal. Another inaccuracy is the qualification that our proposal is hypocritical and unfair. Our proposal is not hypocritical and unfair, but it is a hypocritical and dishonest comment by colleagues Opačić who, as she is known to have been in power, has been in power for 4 years and everything that the demagogue has said today in favour of Croatian workers and their rights has had the opportunity to exercise power over 4 years in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35714	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35715	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, here is proposed 2 or 3 amendments to the existing Labour Act. When we talk about this Act, therefore, the Labour Act, it lays down standards and minimum standards and measures applicable to working relationships and should then follow collective agreements that should not go below those standards. Unfortunately, there are no collective agreements in Croatia, that they are rare, but unfortunately these minimum standards set by the Labour Act are not respected. That it is so participants, i.e. we witness daily and almost all segments of work and work relations where they are based. Surely, for more than a year or almost two years, we've been discussing this unpaid work on Sundays. The labour law has established that Sunday is the day of the week's vacation. The most radical violation of this measure or of this standard in the Law is in trade and the good part of the hospitality that is not spoken of at all. We can say that catering should work every day, but that day of work on the day of the week should be paid as the Law says. However, we must say that we have changed our habits of life. If you weren't mass shopping on Sundays, you sure as hell wouldn't let the merchants open their stores. If we had to pay for all those dwarves that have to pay the worker when he's working on the week's vacation. And now I'd like to try to say what would happen if we accepted in the law that such a formulation is not a week's work. That means Sunday is a day off, in other words, it's a day off. This means that through the Law on National Holidays, Holidays, and Unworkable Days, we would have an increase in working days by at least 54, or as many as Sundays of the year. This means that for those who work on a day, not on the day of a week’s vacation but on a day’s day’s work, paying would be something greater that would add up to their work. What happens next? Work week would no longer be 7 more than 6 days. Daily hours are at our house for seven hours, right? With a mandatory 30-minute break that's within hours. After that, we have a weekly working hours of 40 hours and we have an annual working hours based on these 40 hours a week. By introducing a 40-hour working week for a good part of the workers, we actually got a 5-day working week because one part of the workers doesn't work on Saturdays, and Sundays are their week off. So we sort of introduced a 5-day week with work, a day's work of eight hours. So, and there should then be shifts in almost, not almost but really in all companies should be established new daily, weekly and annual working hours. However, I have something else I would like to say because I don't think that such an amendment should be introduced into the Labour Act and I agree with such an explanation given by the Government. Here, I have in my hand this book that's been published for quite a while, the booklet "Sunday For a Man." I'll only read you two sentences from it. One says that "every act of law and any abuse must be sanctioned in a timely and effective manner because any non-restrained violation of the law contributes to the undermining of the foundation of the entire legal system". It is still said that "between prominent weaknesses we can certainly classify a culture of relations with laws, legal indetermination, ambiguity and their disrespect". This is all from word to word, and now I'm going to tell you what it looks like to you in the surveillance of work and protection at work. We have the State Inspectorate Act, which was passed on June 30, 1999. His 2nd article says that the State Inspectorate is carrying out inspection tasks relating to the supervision, conduct of affairs and enforcement of regulations, among other things, on work and protection at work, which is the subject in some way also of this debate today. Article 4 states that the State Inspectorate in the field of labour protection and labour protection oversees the application of laws, other regulations, etc. Article 19 speaks of who may be the inspector, who is his area of work, etc. And now we come specifically to conduct inspection controls. Article 59 speaks very closely of what this inspection surveillance covers in the field of work protection, which it controls, which are the measures, which are its responsibilities, etc. However, I find it interesting that article 61, which only has one single sentence, says this: "The labour inspector has the right and the duty to order the employer to remove the established injury, the rules on working relations unless it is the right which an employee can exercise before the court". And in addition to the protection of the work he has detailed competences of all other labour injuries, the worker can prove in court and there is this problem that inspectors are limiting that they can't control whether the worker has a contract, whether it works on black, whether he's reported whether he gets his payroll etc. I appeal to the Government to analyse what has been happening so far in the area of violations of labour regulations, implementing labour regulations, which are deficiencies in the Law on State Inspectorate, which have been identified in supervision and in such a way that we are going to amend all the necessary laws and those which determine the rights and obligations of work and those which determine the manner and jurisdiction in inspection control I do not think that this would then be a quality of protection and that we would then force all those irresponsible employers to, without sanctions and without high penalties, not be able to violate existing rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35716	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35717	So it's not true that the labour inspector can't control the work on black, whether there's a labour contract he can control, but unfortunately he can only make a solution and initiate a misdemeanor procedure and that story ends because it's out of date in a criminal court, and that's why we've prepared amendments and additions to the State Inspectorate Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35718	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35719	Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to pick up, but I came up a little bitter about what I've heard so far and the way we're having this debate at this point. I am asking HSP colleagues not to replace me with what I am going to say because I will generally speak because the objection does not go to you but to all of us, if Mr Vidovic called his exhibition and focused on something he called social demagogy, then I would talk or talk about political demagogy or even more of political demagogy. We, colleagues and colleagues, have dedicated tens and tens of hours and days to this topic on Sundays. And we almost didn't make a move. We keep saying the same thing over and over again during today’s debate there was talk of everything and everything. We were talking about a police strike, firing ambassadors, party secretaries, women's cancers, the Vatican Pope and everything and at least the subject we were supposed to talk about. The recent parliamentary delegation was in the Netherlands, Mrs. Chikesh, Mr. Mimica, and I don't know if anyone else, I was also in that delegation, it was Sunday, we landed at the hotel, Sunday afternoon all the shops in the center of that city were open, everything. If that conference had been in Austria, all the stores would have been closed, if it had been in France or Germany, Italy would have had various transitional forms, some centres would have been open, others would have been closed, all of them colleagues and colleagues the thing of the habit of going to the market on Sunday. It is all a matter of tradition in France you will see that all museums are open on Sundays because the French feel the need for their child to go to the museum on Sundays, not only is the museum open on Sundays but it is free on Sundays to stimulate the arrival of citizens, in my River is not so, in Rijeka all museums are closed, I will not explain why and how. So it's part of that tradition. Furthermore, unions, unions here need to do a much bigger job but we, I agree, and the church should have its own influence. However, regardless of all the differences that exist between only these few European countries that I have listed there are colleagues and colleagues in common for all these countries. In all these countries there is a relatively low unemployment rate, in all these countries there is a relatively high standard of living. In all these countries, the technological levels of their economy are extremely high, all these countries are also legal states, in all these countries you will see a relatively high percentage of satisfied citizens. In this they differ from us, not a problem on a working Sunday or on a work week, the problem is in something else. Are we going to make our citizens satisfied, to protect their dignity through this story of Sunday, I don't think so. I think the problem is that 330,000 unemployed and all the problems that arise. Take and analyze for a little bit what they've been doing in that Netherlands, in that Austria, in that France, it's so different this week. They focused clearly on their development strategy, what needs to be done to make citizens truly satisfied, they left these details to others. National politicians have dealt with the national development strategy of these countries. My colleagues and colleagues, let us look at and be honest only with the agenda that is ahead of us, what we were doing at this 13th session and at the 12th session, 11th session, and what is still waiting for us by the end of this session, I will read to you, financing political parties, State Election Commission, Antifascism, annual statistical data, report on educational institutions penitentiary offices, Law on the Rights of Representatives, Law on the Rights of State officials, Law on the Rights of Mayors and Mayors, Road Safety in Four Variations. Whether these are the priorities that are driving this country, driving life in this country, colleagues and colleagues are not always a problem in laws, the problem is that we do not implement them. I don't think you should add much more on this, I apologize to my colleagues from HSP which I just did in the course of this point, I could have done at the previous point and the one that follows behind this but I needed to say it because I feel like we're wasting a lot of time on things that aren't priority. Even the topics I fully agree that corruption is an extremely important topic, so why we haven't focused on seeing if we can stop at the neck of corruption through this law. No, but we're losing it again, we're wandering countless things into some peripheral areas, I'm asking you to go back to the topic, let's really try to deal with the problems of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35720	I haven't interrupted you, although the good part of your debate wasn't about this topic at this point in the agenda. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35721	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to repeat some of my debate from last night and say in the beginning that the promoter obviously had good intentions and was trying to make suggestions on how to solve two problems, but that the solutions offered are guilty, inconclusive, and that's why he won't get our support. A colleague of the Hill mentioned one thing in his debate that I would expand. Namely, when our employers in Croatia get an ISO 9001 certificate that is given to all bells, the media is full of it and we usually declare them entrepreneurs of the year, when it comes to organisation of work, business etc. I think that Croatia should also introduce an HR 2005 certificate which only those employers who have collective agreements and who respect the Labour Act and collective agreements, where trade unions have no problems with labour rights, so this HR 2005 certificate as a good trade mark, I think few people in Croatia could get. In both the Government's view and the Committee's position, it was said that an analysis of the effects of the Labour Act should be carried out. I'm making one of my contributions right now. When we changed labour social legislation in 2003 and introduced so-called A flexible labour market, a million 381 000 workers worked in Croatia in the 7th month of 2003. In January of this year, there were a million 368 thousand or 13.5 thousand less. In the 7th month of 2003, there were 314 thousand unemployed, at the beginning of this year 326 thousand or 12 thousand 700 more unemployed. So we have indeed made remarkable moves in the flexibility of the labour market, because fewer people do, and more are unemployed. The first proposal to solve the problem of whistles or to fire a worker who has reported to the employer on suspicion of bribery and corruption. Why is it impossible to apply the proposed penalty offered by colleagues? Because none of the employers on the grounds of his resignation are going to write that he quit because of it. And in order to prove that this is a fact, the worker has to start a dispute and prove in court that the real reason is the dismissal of the employer's remand. Only then is there the possibility of giving that sentence as a violation, for no one in that explanation will write and do so. And for that reason, I repeat the proposal that instead of proposing that employers pay the fines to the state. We are going with a proposal to increase the damages referred to in Article 123. The law, instead of a maximum of 18 salaries, we increase it to 58, so the worker who got fired will at least benefit the money from it, not rewarding the state. As for Sunday, the really proposed formulation is such that it could mean either an absolute ban on work on Sundays or work on Sundays would not enter the weekly fund of 40 hours and I think the promoter must reshape this proposed solution. And I end up on Sunday the next way. We are all aware of all the reasons we are talking and calling for a problem working on Sundays at the store. According to all data, more than 60% of retail sales in Croatia are controlled by foreign trade chains, all from the countries of the European Union, from Slovenia, Austria, Italy and Germany. In their home countries, none of them will think of making women work 52 weeks a week for 12 hours, not paying it, not giving another day off and still making fun of the salary of 1500 to 2000 kuna. And I ask, is it possible that the Minister of Economy can't call for a conversation, let's say, Mr. Jankovic from Mercator or the Signor of that and that or that and say it, gentlemen, that's enough. What you have guaranteed, from now on you will pay workers in Croatia as well as in your home countries or we will close those trade chains. If it is not for the Minister of Economy, where the Croatian Association of Employers and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to tell these same colleagues, Mr. Signore and Herr, colleagues ask you for anything else, but the same behavior that you must behave in the countries where you came from. So I appeal and call if the institutions of the rule of law are powerless, to protect those tens of thousands of women who work on Sundays without paid work on Sundays, let's also put employers' associations in office, but also executive power and tell them clearly, either you will respect Croatian laws or we will introduce a measure after the first fine we will give you yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35722	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35723	Those trade chains of yours shut down. I hope my time is up. But I hope it wasn't time that the chances and hopes for the workers ran out to protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35724	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I get the impression that the promoter here in the assembly and the general public wants to impose an opinion and a view that they and those who support them are actually the protectors of workers, unemployed, the protectors of the disreputed workers and the protectors of workers and workers working on Sundays. We in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community certainly strongly reject it and really firmly support it, firmly support every measure, an effective measure that serves to protect the rights and dignity of workers. We believe that the existing Labour Act and these changes that have all been made with the organisation of workers through trade unions and all other organisations, the organisation of employers provides a good basis for protecting workers' rights. But the basic problem that is repeatedly highlighted here is that many legal regulations are not implemented or implemented ineffectively and workers are difficult to exercise their rights, i.e. they find it difficult to achieve their judicial long-term judicial procedures to exercise their disputed rights. So we really need to ask ourselves how to protect the rights of those who work on black. How to protect the rights of workers of such people who receive minimum wages, they are registered on minimum wages, the rest are received in a different way? How to protect those who work and do not receive salaries, while some of their employers cannot generalise it, but some of them are rich and then deliberately or unwittingly bring their company into bankruptcy and then transfer their debts to the state, or the consequences to workers who remain unemployed and without their personal incomes that they earn and transfer to the state? We have pointed out here that we support the view that Sunday remains a week's vacation, and I think that to a large extent it's in our business and normally, so here where this measure could change are some services such as store employees. In my initial presentation, I said the same thing that these workers are, and most often, workers and shopkeepers may be the most endangered. Because they really work Saturdays, Sundays, they work shifts, they work for very low wages, and the problem is that the work has not been paid overtime and no work on Sundays. In other services where it is normal, where the nature of work requires that work be organised on Sundays, where people are employed for it and paid, I don't think they even ask questions on Sundays and that we really have to, I think that in society many have made an appointment. Those affected workers themselves do not dare when it comes to, I myself had some such examples when it comes to court then they must not admit it because they will get fired, the inspectors are under-passed and ineffective and when it all comes to court then it is either not settled or delayed and really that the space for effective action of existing regulations and are never good enough to change and upgrade, so that it means that we all need to persist and that it is also in our society that such an climate prevails that indeed the work of one who is not in accordance with the law, which goes to harm and to the dissuasion of workers is not acceptable. And I'm sure we need these chains that came here and flooded Croatia, something they might have done us good when it comes to the offer, so some jobs have opened up, but they also need to accept the standards of those they have in their home countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35726	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs! Well, we actually started last night, and today here we had a debate on me about a significant bill, a bill coming from the ranks of HSP, and I would like to leave this session in the belief that this law was not resisted just because it came from an opposition club. In fact, after the debate I am finally and confused because we have all sworn here to protect the rights of workers and to protect the workers I hope as a man. Of course, all these discussions remain only at the declarative level and if something is not done to put our purpose and desire into life. There was also an attempt on the proposal of my Croatian Peasant Party Club that passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade and that law had the support of both the Association of Employers and trade unions, and it also had the consensus of the largest part of the parliamentary parties at the time, and I cannot agree with the assessment that today was said here that it was a radical law or I don't already know how my colleague Cain said it. And by explaining that law then I said I am aware of all the shortcomings of that law, but there is simply a need to do something more effective to protect man. Unfortunately, even then, here today is trying to impute to insist on Sunday for religious reasons only. I explained in my opening statement this morning even though as a believer I don't mind, let it be for religious reasons only. But to those who don't think so, I pointed out that it's not just religious reasons, but it's in the function of protecting man, man as the fundamental value of this society. Our society is worth nothing and if we create a man on the subject of supply and demand, and if we create only a machine from man that will function without any feeling and if we mutilate a man in any dimension of it and I said that man has four dimensions of anthropological, cultural, social and economic. To tell you the truth, I don't even understand this respect for employers who try to make as much use of workers as possible through a work commitment as I did when I represented employers, when I was assistant director, it was in my interest to have a satisfied worker. How could we, because a satisfied worker gave the highest productivity and the highest productivity provides the best profit to the employer. How could a worker be made content? Not just in a way to pay him and make everything else grow apart for him. And this is exactly the kind of philosophy, so that goes and in a way that blames the arguments, the wrong arguments, the inadmissible arguments that marginalizes this man, she puts him in a different plan, she contributes to the eroding of this man and as a member of the community and as a member of the family, and in this way we will destroy our own society. So, the Croatian Peasant Party absolutely supports this law and at no time did we say that they also need additional protection measures. Well, we are aware that even in the case of the adoption of this law, there will be a direct need for work on Sundays. Well, we're not fanatics. But if the system isn't able to control the law that we have to control in the end and be interested in the law being implemented, then we're making such laws whose control will be the simplest. If we had read fully the reports on the inspections carried out in the shops at that time before the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Trade, then we would have actually seen the impotence of those inspections and, in fact, from objective circumstances, the inspectors were unable to determine the fact that workers in fear of getting fired themselves claimed that the members of their families, that they had not worked last week, and thus the control system was completely ineffective. And if the control system is effective, if we are signatories to the laws and international agreements that bind us, if we are looking towards the European Community and the European Union, which means achieving European standards, then let us not, in our own practice, flee to other areas where the European Union is really not even close at present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35728	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35729	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This bill that we gave in the procedure in January, and it was not our intention to politicise this bill as it was in this debate, but to help the Croatian worker who agreed with us and did this law. I'm a little disappointed with the attitude of some clubs and individuals because when HSP criticises someone's bill, then it specifically criticises and offers concrete solutions and we didn't call anyone's bill hypocritical or demagogy. Honoring exceptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35730	Thank you. It's an expedition. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35731	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Teacherly, according to counterpart Ruza, the purpose and purpose of this law was to raise the issue of labour-legal status of Croatian employment. On the one hand point to chicing, point to a system that is ineffective. There are legal solutions but unfortunately legal solutions are not implemented, the worker is not protected, labour inspection has no authority to protect the worker, and therefore we have said several times that this law means our amendments and additions to the Labour Act worked together in a package with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Inspectorate. Since the government announced even during the discussions that we had in this assembly that it would go quickly with amendments and additions, it is reportedly even found, we are waiting for it. If the government does not come out with this bill, we will give our bill of law and such solutions that will enable the protection of workers' rights. You yourself here today in the Assembly of both the SDP Club and the HDZ Club have indicated how many irregularities there are and how the worker cannot possibly get into a situation to protect him. You yourself are aware of the fact that disputes in regular courts related to illegal cancellations, I can tell you 20 cases of Croatian defenders to whom INA has been fired for four years. One part of it has managed to get rid of the municipal and county courts, which is not the Zagreb area, but this INA will not implement those solutions. And because of such cases, and because of these other cases, you know, if the worker reports any violation of any rights and his according to the law, either according to the collective contract, he automatically came into position according to the current powers of the inspector that the employer gives him what to regular, making an extraordinary cancellation of the labour contract because we ourselves know that in 95% of the cases is work on the basis of the contract, meaning on a specified two-year basis. And therefore, the obvious situation is that we have only harmonised solutions related to the legal gains of the European Union which concerned the reduction of various rights when it was declared a technological surplus, whether it was fired or fired, but not what we have taken over from the European Union, and the legal gains we have not been able to implement, means an effective system, means for the powers of the inspector. And that's why we started here with this piece of preventive measures related to the raising of fines, and when it has the executive power to resolve the inspector and when the first two penalties of such an amount be assured that the order is slowly introduced. It's the only way, we're not for sanctions that will be like that, but they have to be like that only in terms of prevention. It's our interest, I think it's also the interest of Croatian workers. We therefore reject all qualifications that it was related to local elections, did not Mrs. Ruža say nicely, it was addressed in January. Analysis is made, analysis is made of Catholic churches, analysis can tell you every union, analysis can be seen in the state inspectorate. The very fact that over 60% of the misdemeanor reports filed by the inspectors are becoming obsolete in the criminal courts is enough to say that this system is not effective. Normally, it is likely that there is also within the inspection of the problem but we must first of all enable such measures to force employers to mean when the state is an employer, when they are private that what the worker has is entitled to do. And finally, we have to say what some of them are, some of the media that attacked the HSP that we're introducing in the law that Sunday is a bad day, obviously they haven't read this bill at all, we haven't written it here at all, we're just sticking to what's already in the interstate contract, so between the Holy Table and Croatia, and we know that these international contracts are above the law, above the law. And you know for yourself what the situation is that we're the holiday laws, about the Three Kings not to fall into national holidays anymore, but we're still applying it because it's an international contract, it's in your international contract. So, we expect that, in a certain way, everyone will support it, so it's an intensity, it's an intention and until the second reading we can agree with both the government and all the clubs and we're really starting to take care of the workers but the system that's going to protect him that he's not going to get into a situation where now because the fact that the last polls themselves are saying enough that the workers themselves are complaining about the abuse and themselves, you've seen and murder what, suicide in Vrbovac, every case has, if he complains about a superior or if something is automatically coming into the situation in that best case he's going to be pissed if he doesn't get fired immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35732	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda, the vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-31-0.u35733	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health as a home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the report of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Please engage. Please vote. Score. 86 votes for, 7 abstentions, 12 against the accepted proposed conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, I am voting on the following conclusion: It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry out a full analysis of the situation as soon as possible regarding the application of existing provisions on the setting of Sundays as a week's vacation, especially in relation to activities in which Sundays have become a working day in practice and this is not necessary for the sake of production, process or other justified reasons. On the basis of the observed situation, it proposes a solution which will, without doubt and in a clearer way, determine that Sunday is a week's rest except with the specific exceptions mentioned above and propose an effective control method that will ensure consistent application of Sunday regulations as a week's vacation, while at the same time meeting all the legal requirements provided for in the case of a work obligation on Sundays. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that with 81 votes for, 22 abstentions and 2 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
