ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47829	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President, MPs and MPs. As has been said, you are facing the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in relation to state support and the State Aid Report. This is the second report submitted by this Agency under the State Aid Act adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 2003. The report, therefore, is divided into two parts. In the first part of the day is a review of the core activities of the Agency in 2004. The objective of these activities was to establish a system of control over the allocation of state aid, further harmonisation of legislation and the adoption of acts necessary for the implementation of the obligations that are in place by law and obligations undertaken by the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In the second part of the report, state support was given in 2004. In 2004, in particular in its second part, following the adoption of all necessary acts necessary for the implementation of the law, the Agency's activities on the settlement of cases and requests for approval were intensified, whether general or individual State aid. In addition to the joint work on the internal organisation of the Agency with the aim of further staffing and institutional strengthening it to ensure timely and quality processing of the items received. However, given that it is a new matter in Croatian legislation and a new system which requires a significantly different approach from the grantor of state aid, in line with the rules laid down in the law and regulation on state aid, and the legal gains of the European Community, a significant part of the Agency's activities in the last year was aimed at establishing direct communication with state aid providers, ministries and other state administration bodies in order to spread knowledge and awareness of the need to adopt these new rules, but also the reasons for which the granting of state aid should be seen from the aspect of their impact on competition. It is irrefutable that the aid, i.e. the granting of State aid selectively, only improves the market position of certain entrepreneurs with respect to competitors who are being denied, and thus is often inefficient and non-sustainable entrepreneurs to survive on the market at the expense of those efficient ones, and therefore such State interventions must be controlled and limited. Otherwise, they also question constitutional provisions on equality on the market, but also concrete enforcement of obligations undertaken by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which provides that any State aid which distorts or threatens to distort competition is incompatible with the proper application of the Agreement by favouring certain entrepreneurs or certain products to the extent that this may affect trade between the European Union and Croatia. Therefore, the implementation of the State aid system in accordance with the obligations laid down in the said agreement, and the Croatian State aid regulations require the public support provider to provide a large professional engagement in the assessment of economic and social sustainability and the financing of certain projects or entrepreneurs, and to support users of reasoned business plans that justify the investment of state resources in these projects and purposes. The adjustment to the new system of approval and control of state aid requires a certain time, and it can be concluded that in the past year, state support has still been granted, in particular, at the level of units of local and regional self-government independently of the provisions governing this area. It follows the Agency's obligation to continue to focus its activities on the education of donors, as well as on the promotion and public advocate of the State aid control system with a view to ensuring full application of the law and the implementation of obligations undertaken by international contracts. At the same time, state support providers must respect new rules and act in accordance with the law more than ever when granting support. In the second part of the report, state support was given in 2004, and data for 2002 and 2003 were audited according to a methodology consistent with the European Community methodology, with a view to enabling monitoring and comparison. I'll just brief you on that information. Therefore, the data from this report are still largely based on data from the Ministry of Finance, i.e. on the State Budget 2004 report, because the Agency still does not have a full record of all the support granted since, as I have already said before, the system of application in 2004 has not fully revived. So, in 2004 in Croatia, state support amounted to 6.1 billion kuna, which is 3.8% less than in 2003, but by 17% more compared to 2002. In this year, the share of support in the gross social product was 2.9%, while last year it was 3.3%. Also in 2004, the share of support was reduced in the expenditures of the state as well as the amount of support per employee still standing at 4000 and 320.4 kuna, and per capita about 80 kuna. These data refer to a relatively high amount of support, especially when viewed by the employee, and therefore it is extremely important to direct the support correctly, i.e. Assign them to those sectors and to those entrepreneurs that ensure the greatest impact and benefits of support. In accordance with the provisions of the laws and methodologies of the European Union, state support is shared on horizontal, sectoral and regional, and on state support for agriculture and fisheries. Horizontal state support is aimed at all sectors, i.e.... and is therefore considered to be significantly less distorting competition from sectoral competitions which, as we know, are granted only to individual economic branches and groups or entrepreneurs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The aim of regional state aid is to prevent the concentration of production in certain areas and to promote the economic development of poorer areas, i.e. areas lagging behind in development. Therefore, according to these categories in 2004 as well as in previous years in the support structure, sectoral support with a share of around 45% is still the most representative, which was largely intended for transport, shipbuilding and tourism. Agriculture and fisheries are related to about 30% of all support given, and horizontal support is therefore aimed at research and development, environmental protection, employment, etc. They participated in the total aid granted with slightly less than 18%. Although the rules for granting support to regional development are very liberal and allow for the promotion of economic growth in a variety of ways for this category of support in our country still lacks enough hearing so that their share in the support structure is only 2.3%. Support granted by local authorities should also be under the control of the agency, i.e. subject to the Agency's application and approval obligations, and the share of these support was 6% last year, which speaks of significant local communities' activities in helping the development of the economy in their areas. The comparison of the data mentioned in the previous year shows a positive trend in the growth of horizontal state aid and a reduction in the share of these sectors. According to state aid instruments, most of the aid was granted through subsidies in 2004, around 67%, then state guarantees around 19.3%, tax exemptions about 6%, etc. In conclusion, I keep in mind the following. The harmonisation of the Croatian system and state support procedures and its transparency and transparency, which implies clear rules and criteria for granting support at either national or local level, are of great importance in relation to the implementation of the obligations of Stabilisation and Association Agreements but for opening negotiations with the European Union on competition. No less important is the proper application of the laws and systems of approval and supervision of state aid in terms of creating such operating conditions in the Republic of Croatia in which all entrepreneurs will have equal chances and opportunities for success and the inefficient and unsuccessful will not be able to survive at the expense of those successful and competitive. Therefore, the future state support system should be developed in a way that creates conditions for increasing the overall competitiveness of the Croatian economy, not only of certain sectors. This means that support policy should be directed towards horizontal objectives such as those mentioned in research and development, environmental protection, investment in knowledge, and regional development, and particularly to help and encourage those activities and economic sectors whose restructuring programmes guarantee market sustainability after the granting of state aid, however, the granting of state aid and the guidance of support for certain purposes and purposes is not the job of the Agency for the Protection of Competition but of the State aid provider. the authorities of the state administration at all levels and our business is to control whether that award is carried out in accordance with the State Aid Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47830	Thank you very much. Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, President-in-Office Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47831	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor! The Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 38th session held on 21 November 2005 discussed the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in the field of competition for 2004 which was in accordance with Article 36 of the Croatian Parliament. The Competition Protection Act was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency by means of an act of 11 November 2005. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above annual report as a parent working body. The opening presentation was submitted by the representative of the Competition Protection Agency. Noting that in the European Union the problem of competition falls within the so-called "market competition". The secondary legislation of the Agency's representatives indicated that a number of regulations have been adopted in the Republic of Croatia that regulate that area. During 2005, the Agency received 316 items and resolved 74. An important part of the Agency's activities were assessments of the abuse of positions and so on. the concentration allowed, noting that the agency advocates competition in the business of legal entities in the Republic of Croatia, it is also pointed out that the Agency regulates relations between entrepreneurs and makes solutions about the same but does not have the right to sanction illegal behaviour as it falls within the jurisdiction of the courts. Practice has shown that the penalties imposed by misdemeanors are too small because they do not carry out the desired result. It is also pointed out that the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia controls the agency's solutions in a second-degree procedure, noting that there is no specialised judge on the issue of the agency which has been observed and that the latter requires better solutions. Without discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in the field of competition for 2004 is accepted. a year." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47832	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The Committee on European Integration? I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47833	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues! I think we will agree that Croatia has valuable assumptions and valid conditions for faster development and greater economic growth than most countries in the environment, especially countries in transition. Of course, we will agree that Croatia has certain restrictions in enabling faster economic growth and development. This is best seen in this case in the absence of institutional infrastructure for the market economy. In particular, this is seen in the weaknesses of the judiciary and anti-corruption activities in the Republic of Croatia. It is almost certain to conclude that today's economic and social problems in the Republic of Croatia would be significantly lower, that the transition from socialist to market economy from transformation to privatisation would be achieved after the construction of the institutions of the Croatian market system. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that and it didn't happen expected. The results of conversion and privatisation have resulted in negative consequences both on the social and on the economic side. Croatia has and still has a policy of liberal foreign trade since the very isolation of the Republic of Croatia and without built institutions that would ensure and enable the development and survival of Croatian production, Croatian employment and increasing Croatian competitiveness. For this reason, today Croatia is very close to being a hostage to the results of such policy, in particular the monopoly and economic domination of very small numbers of companies and banks, which do not have or are placed in a position of the necessary responsibility for the national economy and national interests. The fight against the monopoly position is the basis for market economy development and social development in general. Democracy and the market go together, if not together then quite certainly parallel. So in these circumstances, we are considering a report by the Competition Protection Agency. That should add a few more facts. We have already received and started accession negotiations with the European Union for full membership in the European Union, then we have also adopted a resolution or platform for these negotiations for full membership in the European Union and last week we passed the Law on State Support. The annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency should therefore be reviewed under these circumstances and in fact. The agency is an independent body from the government, a very important body of the Croatian market and, in general, the democratic structure and behaviour of the Croatian state on the market from the position of freedom of the market in general, especially from the point of view of access to the European market. Report assessment. This report has indeed been drawn up and produced in accordance with the European Commission's methodology for such reports. In accordance with the principles of the European Commission, the annual report by the national competition authorities in the European Community should contain four areas or part-time work of the Agency. All reports include state support to entities and only those that could violate the competition. The second area includes support for registered entities, households, education, hospitals, structural education, and then the report includes measures of the tax system, pension system, public procurement systems not covered by State aid programme reports. Supports from transnational or multinational organisations are the CARDS programme in Croatia, the financing of the European Investment Bank or Bank for Reconstruction and Development and support for defence and public works. Therefore, the part-round of the work of the Competition Protection Agency is the area of state aid governed by the State aid Act, then the Government Regulation on aid, or simply put, the Agency deals and controls all types of aid, whether state aid in the economy, agriculture or areas and regions. Then, the Agency controls the Competition Protection Act. Therefore, which regulates the relations of entrepreneurs on that market, international contracts affecting or affecting market and competition rules, and the implementation of the Public Procurement Act if it affects competition. At this moment, therefore, pre-accession at the time when Croatia is conducting accession negotiations, the Competition Protection Agency plays an even more important role and has a certain impact on the course and on these negotiations. Namely, the Agency controls the programmes and projects of state aid whether they are in line with the Croatian State aid Act and with the standards, i.e. instructions... the laws of the European Commission following the competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we agree and hope to agree that support is a crucial instrument, state economic policies are therefore the European Union and requires an independent body for each national economy that will bring competition in line with European Commission standards. It could mean that before the Law on State Support was passed, the Croatian government should develop state aid programmes and projects that would be suited to the interests of the Croatian economy, Croatia's economy at the moment. This was a task and must be assessed by the government's ability to influence economic growth, the training of economic, economic operators and the general economic economy and the Croatian State for competitiveness in the European Union. The definition of state support I don't think we should repeat it, said the President of the Competition Protection Council here and we discussed them last week in the Croatian Parliament when we passed the Law on State Support. In view of the indisputable fact between us that the role and importance of the Agency should be strengthened, we hope that in the budget that will be discussed in this House today, this importance of the Agency will be valorised through an item that will enable the Agency to train personnel, technically, to meet the needs of the task and to coordinate and assist Croatia in the programmes and negotiations for the accession of the European Union. We believe that the Agency has seen very well the problems of state aid, that it has seen problems and the importance of competition in Croatia's economy, and most importantly, it has seen that until the accession of the European Union, the Agency must have a system that will be able to control the Croatian market and market laws in accordance with the standards it prescribes or directs or proposes a European Commission. We hope that the term in the items in the budget will allow, and this is the government's task to ensure, and this Parliament to ensure both full independence and full competence of the Competition Protection Commission in the coming year, and thus support Croatia in its efforts to at least from that point of view and negotiations can flow smoothly. In the end, I must say that the SDP Club will vote to accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47834	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47835	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President of the Competition Protection Council. This Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency refers, as the name itself says only to State support and the Annual State Aid Report. In particular, I stress this because another report of this Agency on all other aspects of the Agency's action in the protection of competition follows. So here you should only talk about what concerns state support. Article 1 The State aid law is defined as the purpose of state aid and I quote: "preservation of entrepreneurship and market freedom, ensuring the equal legal position of all entrepreneurs on the market, promoting economic progress, social well-being of citizens and caring for economic development and preservation of the environment of all areas of the Republic of Croatia, and implementing the international commitments of the Republic of Croatia.". Of all the things I quoted in Article 1 The State aid law of the Competition Agency's report highlights only what follows at the end of this long sentence behind the score, which is: "and the implementation of the international commitments of the Republic of Croatia.". All this ahead of the promotion of economic progress, the social well-being of citizens, concerns for economic development, the conservation of the environment, the preservation of entrepreneurial and marketable... Ensuring the equal legal position of all entrepreneurs on the market, etc., etc. From the State Support Act, I stress once again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This agency's report is almost silent. This gives the impression that the Competition Protection Agency is actually protecting the interests of the European Union and not the Republic of Croatia. It is simply excessive and inappropriate how many times it is there and where it should be and where it should not be mentioned by the European Union and its interests at least 10 times on one page of the report. It reminds me of texts from some past times when some Croatian leaders under the auspices of Croatian interests were actually representing themselves, Hungarian, Austrian and in a somewhat recent history and Serbian interests. Therefore, this report strongly smells like the text of small small servants of large multinational capital. This scent personally drives tears to my eyes when we know that these are the same people, that is, how we like to call them experts also members of a negotiating team that should protect Croatian national interests in the course of negotiations with the European Union. Among other things, I'll only mention one curiosity. The website of the Competition Protection Agency, i.e. the website is www.Ctlmpet or cookiesmpet.hr and is the only address of the state body that contains English in its address. Of all the addresses. All state bodies. That might sound prose to you. That sounds symptomatic to me. Through the whole text, and otherwise in our social environment, there is too much importance in competition in the context of the accession of the European Union. This may indeed be one of the most important areas, but some groups have raised it to this level that the concepts of competition and business progress are already linked to the European Union and so on, and so on, what is already causing an aversion among citizens and also to the professional public. These are all areas that are preparing to enter and protect multinational capital that will simply crush Croatian entrepreneurship. And those great goals set out in Article 1. The State Support Act will leave little to be left. The report mentions and emphasises Croatia's obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and even states that acting contrary to the provisions may also result in a delay in the opening of Croatia's negotiations with the European Union in a chapter relating to competition and state support. On the other hand, Member States’ obligations to establish European social standards shall be suspended and not spoken. Therefore, we also have a daily bombing of the news of the competition, while the fact that the Republic of Croatia has submitted the first report of respect or disregard for the accepted provisions of the European Social Charter remains completely undetectable. In addition, there is no single line in this report on the ratio of state support and the fulfillment of one of its basic roles, which is the social well-being of citizens. Glorification of the importance of the role of state aid and competition is particularly impressive on page 4 and 5 of the reports, which are listed, I quote: "The negotiations of the former candidate countries point to the fact that state aid as an integral part of the competition being one of the more difficult chapters to fulfil all obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The Agency, as an appropriate body for the approval, control and recovery of State aid, should therefore provide sufficient professional capacity and material conditions for work, which together with other participants in this process, are necessary for the implementation of the tasks entrusted to it. Since it is one of the most demanding tasks in the process of transition of the economy towards a free market or on Croatia's path to the European Union, therefore re-identification of the free market by way of the European Union is necessary in the coming year and those who follow put the necessary emphasis on timely implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because it can depend on, among other things, on the legal certainty of earlier economic investments made after the entry into EU membership." So for insurance and protection... We need to raise some more money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not clear why in the report of the first 5 pages, I must admit by my court the pathetic pro-European text is signed by the President of the Competition Protection Council, followed by the actual text of the report? Couldn't she have signed the whole report? The entire report highlights the obligation of the Republic of Croatia under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in relation to state aid, which is a ban on granting state aid that violates or threatens to distort competition by favouring some... or some products, and they violate trade between Croatia and the European Union and others: the obligation to supply a guard dog to monitor that no aid is granted which will distort trade between Croatia and the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or who will be careful, be careful that products from the Republic of Croatia would by chance fail on the European market. If that were the case, the text on page 9, which I quote, states: "The rules of the community and thus the Croatian order, however, are that the kid is providing support or so on. de minimis support does not affect trade between Member States or Croatia and the European Union. Therefore, such support, which is EUR 100 000 in the community and is allocated within a period of 3 years, and in Croatia 750 thousand kunas are exempt from the application of the State aid rules and can be granted for all purposes except for," I stress "the promotion of exports, steel production and transport activities." The report therefore shows that it is trying to point out the need to reduce state aid to a far lower euro average. Of course, because, by any chance, our companies wouldn't be competing with foreign companies. It is understandable to gradually reduce state aid and no one says it is not our obligation, but not under existing conditions. When a European level of all other economic indicators is reached in Croatia at the same time, at the same time, it is normal for national support levels to be reduced to a European level. But the alignment of one parameter while respecting other parameters really doesn't lead us anywhere or leads us to that famous sentence that says, "We were on the verge of the sink and then we took one big step forward." Otherwise, the status of this Agency and its employees as well as of all other agencies and similar bodies established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is, of course, outside the system of civil servants. Due to the fact that they are outside the civil servants system, they have greater rights and better status than civil servants. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a system of civil servants under its authority affects employees from the legislative but also from the judicial authority, thereby infringing the fundamental foundation of all the countries of the European Union, as well as any other democratic state, which is the trio of the authorities. But please, what's a violation of the government's trio according to the competition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47836	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47837	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Competition Protection Council, ladies and gentlemen. On page 60, the annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency is very detailed, while the protection of the competition is a constitutional category which should therefore ensure a level playing field. It is of particular importance that state aid is supervised by reducing to a minimum the state's impact on the distribution of funds in normal economic flows of the free market. At first glance, everything seems as simple as we heard in today's debates, but we wonder why Oscar Benedict, who is the first secretary of the European Commission delegation in the Republic of Croatia when presenting a new Cards tweening project of 5 million and 800 thousand kuna to support the Croatian State Support System, said: "It is important to have a political understanding of the harmfulness of the misallocated state support and to convey this message clearly to the administration, special circles and individuals." This clearly states that, it is very likely that some state support in Croatia has been wrongly and unprincipled so far, and some of them have been mentioned several dozen times in this conference, and some of them have probably had state committees here. I believe thousands of pages have been printed in that sense. Thousands of working hours have been spent, and I believe that this was not a vain effort if state support in the future of Croatia is granted at some fair values. The political impact on the allocation of state support was also discussed by Prime Minister Ivo Sanader during talks on a new law on the use of state aid in October this year. The prime minister said, so I quote state support that, but not in ways that have so far been stressing that it will no longer be possible for certain local sheriffs as so far to succeed in spending support for losers in their area. I believe that all of us, as representatives from each of the constituencies, can give at least one example when state aid is given in view of, or in order to resuscitate a particular firm very often these local sheriffs in public were able to say that the cause of losses is probably a low state support is actually a bad management. It is therefore crucial to ask ourselves whether the rules and measures on the protection of competition restrict the freedom of contract and of entrepreneurial freedom or whether they promote entrepreneurship and consumer protection. It is clear that every transition process requires some time. We're actually wondering what time for consolidation we need. I tried to find the answer from experience in developed European Union countries. The right to competition has developed in the most developed countries of the European Union in particular 50 years ago. The regulation that began the regulation of competition rights was the Law on Monopolies and Restrictive Practices, meaning the monopoly from... '48. A year. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] The Law on the Protection of Competition in the Republic of Croatia was introduced in '95. A year. So almost half a century later. The Law on the Protection of Competition in August 2003 introduced several significant newspapers, and above all the introduction of a professional five-member competition protection council that has given us here today means a report in the debate. The State aid control system in 2004 which can be seen from this report has not yet fully revived. During 2004, the Agency received a 41st submission in connection with the approval of individual state aid, 50 requests for an opinion. Only 26 items have been completed. That means a little over 30%. In various forms of incentives last year, the state paid about 6 billion kuna out of the budget, i.e. 3.8% less than in 2003, and the report said that the share of support in GDP has dropped from the so-called 3.3 to 2.9%, and cutting state support will certainly be one of the obligations of the Croatian government under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In comparison with the Member States of the European Union, Croatia grants relatively small amounts of state aid, in particular when excluding transport, agriculture and redistribution. However, when it comes to the percentage share of GDP, the Croatian picture certainly looks very different. Horizontal support is dominated in the European Union, i.e. support for all sectors and regions and about 72%, while in Croatia, as much as 57% of the state aid granted is related to transport, shipbuilding and tourism. While the most desirable horizontal support in Croatia is only 5.8% of the 6 billion kuna. The question is also whether in the jurisdiction of the agency are daily complaints about the criteria in the public procurement system which in some ways entrepreneurs are kicked out of the game, very often and in a perfiduous way would be said. In the steel sector, Croatia has failed to fulfil its obligations to the SAA. The adoption of the necessary restructuring programme is already significantly delayed and no real shift has occurred during the reporting period. Last night I had the opportunity to hear at a lecture at the Faculty of Economics that according to the proposed rehabilitation programme Croatian shipbuilding would actually be divided into such amounts as to pay workers in shipbuilding as if they were not actually producing anything by 2015. It is therefore necessary to be very careful to access this programme of restructuring and rehabilitation of Croatian shipbuilding. The conclusion of the document states that the Agency has not yet fully established its own State aid database. Therefore, the basic source of data depends on the up-to-date reporting of state aid and data from the implementation of the state budget over the three years observed. So let's conclude that the agency actually is actively collecting all the data and the question of how successful it actually is when it shows this data. I conclude from what the report said that compared to last year's... They are now making some adjustments for 2003. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We conclude from this that probably when we listen to the 2005 report, we will also hear about the corrections made for 2004. So far, similar problems have been very often instructed in the state treasury, but Minister Schuker has reported in the media and on committees during the interpretation of this year's budget that as of this year, the state treasury will be fully monitored, i.e. the state treasury will finally become the system as in all the countries that have been in place, so the best mechanism for ensuring the rational use of state money. The task is to continue with positive trends in the coming periods by supporting more forms of state aid that are less harmful to sound competition. In particular, it is necessary to leave the selective approach in the award of state aid and state resources and to focus more and more on those aids that bring greater benefit to the economy as a whole. First of all, it is meant to invest in education, training, environmental protection, employment, etc. etc. On the day of obtaining membership in the European Union, responsibility for granting state aid in the Republic of Croatia, so... agencies as national authorities on the European Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For these reasons, people will certainly closely monitor the negotiations on subsidies, and given the dependence of the significant part of our economy on state aid, it will certainly be one of the important and perhaps more difficult chapters for Croatia. But we must certainly focus not only on how to get as long a transition period as possible, but also on solving the problems accumulated for years, because in this way we will gain greater credibility in negotiations and perhaps increase the chance of getting a bigger transition period. Finally, I would like to tell you that the Competition Protection Agency must be independent of both the policy and the strong entrepreneurs, and the staff number of people and their expertise in carrying out the adopted legislation, which means demanding investigative procedures on cartels, price agreements and all other important areas. The HDZ Club will support this agency report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47838	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47839	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Council. We of the CNS will not be so fierce in our debate and with so much criticism look back on this report, although of course we also have certain objections. As we all know the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Republic of Croatia has also assumed the obligation to fully comply with the rules in the area of state support with the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Community, as well as the establishment of an operational, independent body which will be authorised to choose state support programmes and individual support as well as to order the recovery of unlawfully granted support. I therefore welcome this second report by the Competition Protection Agency, which has started a difficult job in order to adapt the State aid system in the Republic of Croatia to the State aid system in the European Union, and from this report, drawn up from the methodology for making such reports of the European Union. First of all, the task set out for them is not easy to take into account the shortness of time in order to bring into order a rather unsettled system of state aid which has become such at the time of the war, privatisation and, besides, at the time of non-compliance in the new transition circumstances, and the necessary take-up of activities on the education of workers who carry out tasks in the public administration bodies in relation to the proposals and allocation of state aid as well as in the training and specialisation of the employees of this Agency. The specific problem highlighted in the report is the education of staff of local administrations and self-government, as well as the possible consequences of granting support under the State Aid Act. The report in question shows that all types of support, horizontal, sectoral, regional and state support for agriculture and fisheries are clearly not excessively high compared to the European Union. Horizontal state support is intended for all entrepreneurs and sectors. This significantly distorts competition from sectoral aid granted to an individual entrepreneur or to all entrepreneurs within certain economic branches or groups. Let's mention that shipbuilding, tourism, traffic or something. The problem that is now being imposed is a deviation from practice in the European Union which favours horizontal support and reduces sectoral support, although the report shows a gradual reduction in sectoral and increased support for horizontal objectives. Like research and development or recovery and restructuring, culture and others. It is obvious that there are positive trends where service providers are starting to leave a selective approach in granting state aid and state resources are more focused on support that brings more benefit to the economy as a whole and create assumptions for increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy through investment in education and education. Horizontal support would improve the achievement of well-designed economic projects that would contribute to employment and are directed towards companies that rely their success on knowledge, their own development and efficiency. This strengthens competitiveness and overall economic growth. I do not dispute that large foreign companies do not have their lobbying interests in relation to the placement of Croatian products on the European market, but the question of profit relations compared to what we have lost. If our economy were such a perfect question, would it all be necessary? And in the end, I would conclude the following. Further reduction of sectoral support is necessary, and strengthening horizontal support, especially those that reach research and development and culture. It is necessary to strengthen communication on the relation of the state administration body to the Agency. It appears from the report that the administrative capacities of the Agency should be strengthened. It is necessary to educate employees who carry out work in the bodies in connection with the proposals and allocations of state aid. It is necessary to speed up the establishment of the Agency's database. State support must be used more fully to improve competitiveness and stronger development, not to give it to keep those who are not trying to live, nor trying to become successful. It is necessary to make efforts to further reduce the share of state aid in relation to the gross social product, as the Republic of Croatia deviates from the average in the European Union, although other transition countries had a similar percentage of the share of state aid to the gross social product when they joined the European Union. It should also be done to ensure that the Agency, as an independent operational body, fulfils its task in accordance with the rules which establish a State aid system in the Republic of Croatia and thus fulfil the obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In this way, donors and recipients of state aid would be prepared for the adoption of rules in force in the European Union since the acquisition of membership in the European Union, the power to grant state aid in the Republic of Croatia, to move from the Agency to the European Commission. We of the CNS understand those foreign words that colleagues spoke of. Our words: "www" and "cro" are not so foreign, so we do not think that these are key or crucial objections to this report so that we from the Croatian People's Party club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47840	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47841	Mr. President, President of the Council. Ensuring an equal legal position on the market, i.e. protecting competition, is an extremely responsible job. We all care about the transparency of the state aid system that can stabilize and disrupt regular economic flows. Support to inefficient and less efficient entrepreneurs enables the survival and survival of the market. The pressure of the European Union is evident through a request to reduce state aid which would challenge the competitiveness of the European Union's entrepreneurship. The responsibility of the Croatian negotiating team for this area is certainly high, as state support now holds many jobs. It is certain that large-scale support for shipbuilding and ironworks will be particularly highlighted and disputed, and the next years will be an important goal of restructuring and recovery of this important export sector for us. The quality record of state support certainly enables transparency. The Agency is an important timely application of the support proposal, the application process, the euro form. We've read about the fact that they're already fitting in, as defined by the December 2004 rule. The expertise of the support provider is necessary to recognise the economic and social sustainability of project financing. How to meet the European Union's recommendation and to ensure that smaller and better quality state aids are protected by large users will surely require huge efforts by the negotiating team because the European Union's negotiators will seek to reduce any obstacle, and state support certainly is, for them, uninterrupted entry into the Croatian market. I think that through the introduction of this otherwise very high-quality report, the problems and the state support providers, as well as the Agency, have been highlighted. The importance of the Agency's work should be honored by the completion of a team of quality experts who will know the state and functioning of the economy, but also by the judiciary, or both. Let's remember the work done by the Agency to prevent the monopoly by concentration, remember "Free Dalmatia", "Europe Press Holding", their desire to keep everything and take another, then the banks where the Agency did a good job. The Agency does not seem to have been an insurmountable problem with a large number of cases, of which the good part has been solved, but the problem is comprehensible when monitoring what happened with the implementation of the solution and punishment. Too often antiquity in criminal courts stimulates offenders and destroys the Agency's authority, and administrative courts are reluctant to receive, as we have heard, cases, because judicial expertise is often insufficient. Unlike, say, the judges of a commercial court who have it, but they're not competent or anything. The report is rich in quality tables that show the scope, direction of state support, type of support, which absolutely demystifies the support structure. A particularly interesting comparative representation of the agencies of the new members of the European Union is. It is easy to see that because of the volume of jobs and European standards, strengthening the Agency is unsustainable before the education of new employees takes place, just as the president said, for at least one year. The Agency for the Protection of Competition is neither above the Government nor above the Parliament, but an expert filter of state aid is needed, a guarantee of market competitiveness. And finally, let us wish them, first and foremost, to Mrs Spevec, successful negotiations with the European Union in this, in my opinion, a very difficult chapter of negotiations, because the results of the negotiations depend on the future of part of the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47842	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Secondly, the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in relation to state aid and the Annual State Aid Report for 2004, I am voting on the next conclusion. The annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in relation to state aid and the 2004 annual State aid report is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 89 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 3 against the proposed report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47847	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It seems that this is one routine to confirm another protocol with the Convention for the Protection of Cultural Goods in the event of an armed conflict with the Final Bill. But we in Croatia don't think it's a routine, but we think we need to remind ourselves of some facts that, in the case of this law, must be remembered, and in the future, I hope never again apply. It is about confirming this protocol actually supplementing something that was passed back in 1954, then the convention for the protection of cultural goods in the event of an armed conflict was adopted. But from 1954 to 1990, it's been decades, and we all know what happened to us. There's been a forced war on us, there's been a Homeland War, and there's a lot of kidnapping, robbery, robbery, and destruction of what we call what we call a cultural good in the whole world. In order not to repeat, this confirmation of this Convention, this Protocol also introduces some newspaper compared to what was previously established, but I will only remind you that at the time of the Homeland War on a series of our cultural objects, it was reported that they were protected, that under the protection of UNESCO, yet the aggressor did not prevent the bombing of Dubrovnik, that he was trying to destroy Zadar, that he was trying to destroy Sibenik, the Sibenik Cathedral, the Zadarian St. Donat, the old core of Dubrovnik, Vukovar, Osijek and Zagreb. We know when the shelling of Zagreb was that one of the targets was also the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb. This is all very important, not just once, but in a number of cases when it comes to such a bill, or when it comes to possible future protection, I say it has not happened again, all of what is sacred to every nation, which our cultural goods were moving or immovable. We know today that we have not yet received what we have been kidnapped, that still some of the situations in Serbia-Montenegro are open, that we are looking for the return of our people's treasure, and all of this will be believed in this convention and this protocol for some other time trying to prevent it. What I would particularly like to highlight among further regulated issues of the application of the Convention is a criminal liability for breach of the Convention or Protocol, as well as the establishment of a Cultural Goods Protection Fund in the event of an armed conflict which may grant financial or other assistance. What seems once more important to me to point out is that the damage done to cultural goods is a damage to the cultural heritage of all mankind, and I think that this is why I think that one of the laws that we are passing by an emergency procedure is extremely important precisely because we live in a country that is not willing, not counting on it 15 years ago experienced the destruction of its cultural heritage and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community club is absolutely behind the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47848	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. We continue at 15 hours with a debate on the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. Third, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Second Protocol with the Convention for the Protection of Cultural Goods in the event of an armed conflict. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 97 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47851	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. It is an extraordinary time for me for the third time on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose a budget this time for 2006. I will say at the beginning that this budget reflects the main strategic objectives, above all, of strengthening economic growth, maintaining macro-economic stability and creating assumptions for a higher standard of Croatian citizens, and ultimately strengthening the Croatian state. The key instrument for achieving these objectives is fiscal policy, i.e. the state budget. The 2006 budget has already been this and has said an ambitious budget, but it is feasible based on trends in the macro-economic environment that outlines the overall economic policy and the main priorities in the field of structural reforms, and creates assumptions for the full absorption of European Union funds. Let me at first highlight the most important macro-economic indicators that outline economic policy this year. The real growth of gross domestic product in the second quarter after stagnation in the first quarter reached 5.1%, representing the highest real economic growth in one quarter since 2002. Other indicators in the real sector indicate a continuation of accelerated economic activity in the third quarter as well. We'll see at the end of the year what the final results are. The trend in industrial production which, after growth of 4.7% in the first half, further accelerated so that the trend increased even more so that in the third quarter it increased by 5.3%. According to data from the State Statistics Office, exports of goods and services in the second quarter registered an annual growth of 8.9% while imports of goods and services increased by 7.3% at the same time. Thank God we can say today that here is the second year after the order of the growth trend of exports greater than the growth of imports. Covering imports of goods and services from consultations in Opatija, economic advice in Opatija will also be used in these statistics and imports and exports of services. I think we owe it because it's a practice in the European Union as well. And when we take the export of services that includes tourism for information that we have received relevant these are not government data that I'm about to tell you now. The coverage of imports of goods and services by exporting goods and services is 88%, which is much more than the coverage of the goods imports with the most commonly used and which is 49%. And that's what we're gonna say. Exports of goods include exports of goods to external and trade statistics complemented by the estimated value of goods sold to foreign passengers and tourists and exported from the Republic of Croatia, while imports of goods include imports of goods into external and commercial statistics complemented by the estimated value of goods imported from neighbouring countries by Croatian citizens themselves called shopping. On account of services, export statistics and imports of transport services, travel services and other services are kept separately. The most important category in the account is travel, tourism where revenues from services provided to foreign passengers and tourists are recorded. These revenues are traditionally highest in the third quarter of each year due to the impact of the tourist season, which is logical. The above-mentioned revenues, pardon, on the dissipated side of the "travel-tourism" category, include expenditures that domestic travellers and tourists also had abroad. Transport services shall include revenue and expenditure in the transport of goods and passengers, and the value of the accompanying services. Other services relate to insurance and communications services. So much for this statistic. Especially good results have been recorded during the tourist season. Viewing only the third quarter of the night, tourists increased by 9.7%, the highest overnight growth in the third quarter since 2000. As a confirmation of a successful tourist season, real trade growth can also be cited in the third quarter, which was 3.3%. In the first half of 2005, the unemployment rate was 13.1%, down from 0.7% compared to the first half of 2004 when it was 13.8%. The unemployment rate of 13.1% is the lowest unemployment rate in the last 5 years. Despite the high rise in world market oil prices, average inflation in the first 9 months was retained at 3.2%. In 2005, at the end of the year forecasts are that it will be 3.3% while its slowdown and decline below 3.3% in 2006, we expect 3.2% and possibly lower. Given the favourable trend of macroeconomic indicators in the current part of the year, a acceleration of the real growth of gross domestic product from 3.8% in 2004 to 3.9% in 2005, and the upcoming period is expected to speed up the growth of gross domestic product to 4% in 2006. I'm going to say that this is a very traditional forecast because I think it can happen even more and it's going to happen more. We have drawn up a budget in 2006 aimed at bringing Croatia to a higher level of economic growth, development and a higher standard of living for all its citizens. As one of the main features of this budget, I would like to highlight support for maintaining macroeconomic stability, which is achieved by precisely strong fiscal adjustment that we started in 2004, and continue with stronger intensity this year. But next year we plan to implement the most significant fiscal adjustment that will result in a reduction in the general government deficit to 3.3% of gross domestic product. This is a fiscal adjustment of almost 1 percentage point, because this year we had a deficit of 4.2%. Therefore, almost 1 point of forecast and effort to reduce in 2006. A major venture is even for more economically powerful countries than Croatia. By implementing such a fiscal policy, we will already meet in 2007 a master criteria that determines the level of deficits of 3% of gross domestic product. The reduction in the fiscal deficit by 0.9% will work towards a reduction in public debt by next year, which will without a doubt positively affect the stabilisation of the external debt as well as the balance of payments deficit. Also, by reducing the fiscal deficit, more space will be opened to the private sector as it will reduce pressure on the growth of interest rates and thus create favourable conditions for an increasing number of private enterprise ventures. I note that for the first time in 2006, the general government expenditure, and this is extremely important, will be below 50% for the first time. And if we do that, it will be our joint venture. Under 50% of gross domestic product. The 2006 budget, with macroeconomic stability, also provides support for higher levels of economic growth. First of all, I'm taking the opportunity to also correct some of the information and speculations that have appeared in public these days. The state will continue to invest in capital projects, not at 14 billion or 15 billion kuna levels, as well as in public today, but from 16 billion kuna at the general state level, will encourage economic growth. State investment is a key instrument in the economic approach to European Union countries. After the successful completion of the Zagreb-Split highway, which has turned into the reality of the 10-year dreams of the Croatian people to connect continental and Adriatic Croatia, we will continue to invest in the road connection of all areas of our country as well as in the connection of Croatia as a whole with Europe. Also with road connection next year we will invest in modernising and building rail infrastructure. The 2006 budget also provides for funding for a number of smaller infrastructure projects such as the construction of schools and hospitals. Croatian highways after completing and leaving the traffic of 48km of Bosiljevo-Split and Rupa-Rijek highways by 30 June 2005, are currently engaged on corridor 5C from Beli Manastir via Osijek to the border of BIH, i.e. from the south, from Wednesdays to the north, and in the south of the border from BIH to the port of Ploče. It's a complete 5C corridor that goes through Bosnia and Herzegovina. Furthermore, from Dugopolje to Ploč, from Županje to Lipovac. In 2 months, the construction of highways from Zagreb to Sisak starts, and of course highways to Macelj. Split-Sestanovac-Ploče, a length of 96km should end somewhere since 2008. Parish-Lipovac length of 29 kilometers. Construction and release by the end of 2006, and the part envisions a combination of highways from Okucan towards BISH border near Bosnia and Herzegovina. The white Manastir-Osjek-Svilaj, a 89km road route, is divided into 5 shares. During the observed period, it is planned to build shares on the Wednesday-Djakovo-Osjek move, a total length of 55km from which 23km to Đakova would have been put on the market by about half 2007. The direction Zagreb-Sisak length of 46 kilometers is divided into 3 shares and that part of Jakushevac-Velika Gorica length 8 kilometers, Velika Gorica-Lekenik 20 and Lekenik-Mosčenica 18 kilometers. During the observed period, it is planned to build shares to Lekenik. The Rijeka-Zagreb highway, the remaining 55km, will be built in full profile, or 50km in full profile, and these jobs are already in full swing. The total value of that second phase is about two and a half billion. According to the concession contract, the concessionaire on the Krapina-Macelj stock is 18.6km long and a second lane of highways from Jankomir to Zapresic in the length of 7.4km. In 2005, it was planned to build 1.4km from Velika Vesa to Krapina, and the construction of the second stake on the Jankomir-Zaprešić stock was continued with the deadline of the completion in 2006. The entire stock to Macelj will be completed in 2007 when the most difficult 17.2km section, the hardest section of the highway, is completed. In order to achieve strong and long-term sustainable economic growth, the countries will continue to support the strengthening of the private sector and its growing participation in fostering economic growth. To this end, further State support for domestic production and exports and the promotion of foreign direct investment is necessary. Foreign direct investment will not only pull new technologies and knowledge away and boost economic growth but will also contribute to increased employment growth and to increasing the standard of living for all citizens. We have become aware that knowledge is a key assumption of economic growth and development, we are probably a consensus, the creation of quality and competitive workforce and the promotion of research and innovation, and the integration of them with the entrepreneurial sphere will contribute to Croatia's long-term sustainable economic growth and to increasing its competitiveness on the international agenda. That is why this objective is one of the priorities of the 2006 budget so that the budget for education and science provides for as much as 9.4 billion kuna. By making the 2006 budget, we did not neglect even social responsibility, so we anticipated an increase in social benefits by 4.75 compared to 2005. In the 2006 budget, our goal is to promote demographic reconstruction and social protection of families and births through significant segregation for maternity benefits and children's allowance. It also provides for increased redundancies for defenders and for the unemployed. This budget we are proposing today, ladies and gentlemen, guarantees a significant level of social contributions based on the non-infringing rights of the most socially vulnerable group of Croatian societies. In this context, I would like to point out that the budget for the following 2006 is also reflecting the government's priority regarding and encouraging employment. To this end, we envisaged a new programme of active employment policy of 150 million kuna, and so far we have increased employment by as much as 8.7% compared to 2005. The 2006 budget also reflects the main reforms of the Government to establish a fiscal and social sustainable scientific pension system. In 2006, we continue to anticipate an increase in the allocation for health care, with the 2006 budget, we plan to increase pension allocations by 5.8%, representing a growth of 1 and a half billion kuna compared to 2005. Croatia continues to feel the consequences of the war and it is a duty for all of us here to reduce these consequences, so we have also foreseen a budget of around 5.7 billion kuna for the removal of direct or indirect consequences of the war, which represents an increase of 5.7% compared to this year. This amount includes the restoration of the destroyed houses and facilities, the return of property, the housing of the returnees, and various separations for our defenders guaranteed by law. I would also like to point out that, as a consequence of the war, the cost of demining and rehabilitating the destroyed industrial plants of HEP and Croatian water and other public enterprises by entities not covered by the budget amounted to around 2 billion kuna. The assumption is that this same amount will be slightly smaller next year. Finally, I would like to point out that the 2006 budget strongly supports the approximation of Croatia to the European Union. We have all recently witnessed one of the most significant successes in the recent Croatian history of opening negotiations for entry into the European Union. Croatia is moving faster and faster towards the United Europe countries and it is unquestionable that it will soon become its member, but the process of negotiations, ladies and gentlemen, and the rapid approach to the Union also sets new challenges that we will be willing to meet. All of our planned reforms that we have talked about countless times, from strengthening the private sector, restructuring and accelerated privatisation dynamics through institutional adjustments to public administration reform and unifying the supervisory institutions of the non-banking sector to establishing an effective judicial system are the reforms that will create assumptions for future economic growth and bring us closer to developed countries with which we will be able to compete on the single European market. The start of the negotiations has opened secure and greater opportunities for us to use the European Union funds to finance different projects that support all our planned reforms and create institutional and administrative capacity to accept the Union's acquis. Through its pre-accession funds, the European Union will finance our projects with 4 and 165 million kuna in 2006, but precisely the State budget for next year, which we propose today with a total of nearly 600 million kuna for the use of EU pre-accession funds and thus guarantee the success of implementing all projects and reflect the considerable capacity of course through this combination of funds and budgets, the ability of Croatia to absorb EU funds, which is extremely important for the start of the negotiation process, as we will be seen of course in terms of absorption. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia today proposes a budget that will bring Croatia much closer to developed European countries both economically and socially in 2006. This budget includes all our efforts to create a modern Croatian state that will mark high rates of economic growth and a higher standard of living for Croatian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47852	Thank you. And another part of the explanation of the state budget proposal, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47853	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin to explain the draft revenue and expenditure side of the state budget with the foundations and discussions held over the past week since this budget was presented in the Croatian Government, I would like to say something about the Croatian public for the reason that certain moves can then be easier to understand. In order to talk about this budget, first of all we need to know what the structure of the expenditure side of this budget is, because we are talking about the change in expenditure in this and that direction, not saying what will be reduced or which tax revenues should be increased in the next period is simply impossible, and if certain structural changes are not made that will lead to a reduction in the spending or expenditure side of the state budget, then it is also impossible to talk about more significant and faster economic growth, because economic growth is not a list of good wishes, for more significant and faster economic growth must be created a series of preconditions. Economic growth, which over the past few years has been based solely on investment from the state budget and a terrible increase in external debt, is a spent model and a model that HDZ simply does not see prosperity in it, a model that does not function and a model that cannot guarantee more significant economic growth and for this is the best indicator in 2003 when we had an increase in external debt of more than 40% or somewhere around 9 and a half billion kuna, when we had investment from the state budget at 14 billion kuna, however, economic growth was only 4.2%. Therefore, it is clear that without taking certain structural reforms as a prerequisite for faster economic growth, it is impossible to talk about more significant economic growth and, therefore, taking into account all this and the main indicators and macroeconomic environment and strategic objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance has drawn up a proposal for a 2006 budget that takes into account the real macroeconomic situation, above all the level of external debt and balance of payments deficits. The Croatian Government wants to ensure, above all, a reduction in the external exposure of the Croatian economy as it is precisely a reduction in deficits, domestic market debt and privatisation income will affect that we will keep the level of external debt of the Republic of Croatia to about 82% for the second year in a row. And what I would particularly like to emphasise, exactly the government decision of the Republic of Croatia that both 2004 and 2005 the biggest part of the debt requirement to cover the deficits carried out on the domestic financial market has clearly proved to be one of the main injections for the financial market that has revived, strengthened and finally woken up. And therefore, today, the Republic of Croatia can easily cover all its needs on the domestic market under very favourable conditions under which 15 months ago it could neither dream nor dream, including issue and kuna bonds without a currency clause for ten years. Therefore, as regards the revenues of the state budget, revenue is planned in line with the increase in economic activity and the expected trends in inflation. Better revenue collection will ensure the implementation of measures to strengthen the administration's tax in order to curb the grey economy. And what we also predicted, the introduction of a new way of using blue diesel, we will prevent a large part of the abuse because over 176 million tons is an estimate that blue diesel will be used in 2005. The planned total revenues of the state budget are 93.995 billion kuna and 9.8% more than in 2005, respectively. However, if we exclude from these revenues the revenues of Croatian highways and Croatian roads that will only be passed through the state treasury and are directed towards the jury account of Croatian roads and Croatian highways, then the real increase in the state budget is 6.4% compared to 2005. If we add that with today's billing day, actually the revenue side of the state budget is 7.5% higher than it was for the same period last year, then the increase of 6.4% is something that was planned quite realistic without overinflating. Or if I'm just telling you that in the structure of total income, tax revenues make up 53 billion kuna and plans to increase by 5.9%, social contributions, so contributions to pension and health account for 33.6 billion kuna or an annual increase of 6.8%. Help, there's the biggest increase of... 17.9%, however, are pre-accession fund revenues and normally it has not been in the past years, so that's why this index is the largest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The planned expenditures of the state budget are 98 billion and 824 billion kuna. However, what I would like to say is, according to the methodology of budgetary accounting, the expenditures of the budget are 95,368 billion kuna. Total planned expenditure of the state budget in 2006 is with income from HAC, HC, Croatian lottery, European funds 8.7%. However, when we exclude all these revenues which I forgot to say at the beginning that this year, for the first time, all the revenues and expenditures that state budget users have are included in the state budget, literally all of them. And if you take a closer look at the financial plans than the stockpiles and then you'll see that all the revenues from the special revenues of the Ministry of Health, Customs, etc. included in the revenue side of the state budget and also in the expenditure. And we in this year practically in 2006 came to step to finally the state treasury to function. And if you have seen the wording of the budget it is practically explained to the smallest activities and whoever sees this budget either in this text section or on the Internet can see why taxpayers' money is leaving in the Republic of Croatia. So the total increase in HAC and HC budgets is 4.34%. And let me say something about expenditures by function and precisely for the reason that we see that structure of the Croatian budget, to see how many opportunities are in interventions on this social part or on this economic part without increasing the fiscal burden of Croatian citizens or Croatian economies. Because I'm saying, it's the structure of the state budget that limits a lot of things. Thus, the 2006 health separations were planned at 14 billion and 30 million kuna levels. For example, this year, as you have seen in all the reasons, we use it as a base year in 2004, so the first year this government was or was compared to 2004 is a billion and 100 million kuna increase. According to the 2006 budget, the funds were planned with 28 billion and 313 million kuna or a total of a billion and 550 million kuna compared to 2005. And what I'd like to say is that this information is not a matter of good wishes whether or not someone can provide it. This increase is based on the Pension Insurance Act adopted in this House where pensions are precisely defined to be indexed twice a year by this and that formula based on macroeconomic indicators in 2005, based on the fiscal projection of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006-2007-2008. So using all this data, we've come up with a calculation that insurance funds, so to increase pensions in the next year first in the third month, the second in the ninth month will be enough a billion and 500 million kuna more. Other social benefits are planned at 7 billion and 145 million kuna. Therefore, there are maternity benefits planned with a billion and 344 million kuna or 85 million kuna more, permanent rights of Croatian defenders 43 million kuna more, compensation for the unemployed 23 million kuna more and in the proposal of the State budget 2006 also envisions a set of allocations of funds for investment incentives, strengthening private entrepreneurship and as an increase in the competitiveness of the entire Croatian economy. Let me just have a few details. Therefore, encouraging economic activity 290 million, encouraging entrepreneurship infrastructure 97 million, increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian industry 49.5 million, improving, encouraging investment 10 million kuna, HABOR 595 million. I especially stress this. HABOR would not be able to implement all those major projects from encouraging and granting cheap loans to tourism under these conditions if it did not receive funding from the state budget. The 2006 subsidies are planned at 5 billion and 297 million or 2.2% of gross domestic product. In 2006, higher expenditure for the Ministry of Defence was also planned by 14.5%. The 2006 budget puts a special emphasis on what Mr. Prime Minister said about science and education, the funds are growing by slightly less than 7%. And what I'd like to combine when I talk about it in 2003 was a billion and 600 million smaller or 20.4% if you want percentages because it's not anyway a billion to ten billion or say a billion and 600 to four and a half or five billion kuna. Capital investment in the state budget is forecasting a 17.8% increase and this year will be at 16 billion kuna levels and this is the best answer to those who say there is no balance between the social and development parts of this budget. And what I would especially like to highlight, direct and indirect damage to the war that is financed from this budget. There is no HEP funds here, the funds of Croatian Waters but therefore all that is financed from this budget are 5.67 billion kuna. This does not have any of the former ten members, former transition countries that have entered the European Union or those who are candidates. That's 0.4% more than the central government deficit. And now take it that there are no such means as the consequences of the war that I'm not talking about indirect.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47854	Thank you very much. Lock it down. You'll have opportunities in the next stages. Here you go. Finish it. You'll get a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47855	So, I think that no matter what political party, whose political option we belong to, I think that all these years we've done too little of this data on direct damage, indirect damage as a result of the war in the pursuit of certain benefits to the international financial institution. Because I repeat, it's for a billion kunas more than the central government deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47856	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. You'll have a chance later. Reporters of working bodies, Legislative Committee. The President of the Committee, the Honorable Representative of Florian Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47857	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At the 56th session of 21 November 2005, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a national budget for 2006 with a draft budget for 2006 and 2008 as well as the proposals for financial plans with proposals for the 2007 and 2008 projections submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 15 November 2005. The Legislative Committee supports the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 as well as the proposal to enter into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal. At the same time, the Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament agree on the financial plans for 2006 to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the Croatian Employment Institute, Croatian Waters, Croatian Autoroads, Croatian Roads, State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Rehabilitation of Banks, the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. The Committee does not object to the state budget and decisions to give consent on the day of its publication in the National Journal. At the same time, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to draw the next conclusion. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised, together with the representatives of the proposings, to carry out the text of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 as well as the financial plans and before their publication in the National Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47858	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The President of the Committee is a respected representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47859	Given the importance of the moment, it is necessary to read throughout the Committee's position. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Government, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee discussed this report and the basis of the proposals we had, and the proposals included the proposal for financial plans for 2006 with the Proposal for a projection for 2007 and 08 of the Croatian Institute, of course other than the budget, for pension insurance of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian Employment, Croatian Waters, Croatian Highways, Croatian Roads, State Deposit Insurance and Rehabilitation Agency, the Croatian Fund for Privatisation, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the Proposal for a Plan for revenue and expenditure of the state budget outside of the 2006 budget with a proposal for a budget projection for 2007 and 08 consolidated. At the 42nd session held on 21 November 2005, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a national budget for 2006 with the draft budget for 2007 and 08, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 15 November 2005. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with the Proposal for a projection for the 7th and 08th working body. In the introduction, the minister of finance of the Republic of Croatia said the State Budget proposal for 2006 was up 8.7% compared to the previous year. It is noted that this year's budget is based on an expected GDP growth of 4%, an average inflation of 3.2, and a deficit in a consolidated general... of 3.3 GDP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2006, the business revenues of 93 billion nine hundred ninety-five million kuna were planned, i.e. 9.8% more than in 2005. The result of such growth is the inclusion in the state budget of revenue based on road charges that were formerly direct revenues of Croatian roads and highways. In the income structure, the largest part of 56.4 refers to tax revenues. The total expenditure is the national budget for 2006 of 98 billion 825 million and is made up of the operating expenditure of ninety-five hundred and three hundred and sixty-eight million, expenditure on the purchase of non-financial assets of 2 billion 542 million, loans of 966 million and reduced by return of 300 million. These expenditures for shares in the principal planned for €248 million, the total expenditure of the State budget for 2006 increased by 7 billion 927 million from the total revenues in 2005. In particular, it is stressed that around 72% of the expenditure of the state budget relates to legal obligations, in the area of pension insurance, health insurance and salary expenditure regulated by the collective agreement, and are obligations of law enforcement. Following the introduction of the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia's hearing on the Committee, some opinions were also made. First. An explanation was requested for the planned increase in Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's salary in 2007 amounting to 40.49 while the funds for salaries in the tax administration in 2007 increased by only 5%. In fact, most of the jobs were transferred from the Croatian Institute for Pensions to the Tax Administration, so it is unclear why such a large disproportionate amount of funding was made. The Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia explained that the tax administration does not need a significant increase in the number of employees, regardless of the increased volume of jobs, and the same reason is not the mass of wages which provides greater funds. On the question whether the tax policy would change next year, the finance minister of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that there is no need for this because the expenditures of the state budget define tax policy and they depend on the real opportunities of the economy and its development in the coming period. It is pointed out that the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 should be supported for the reason that it is fully balanced for the first time, transparent and fully achieves the basic macroeconomic objectives. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the 2006 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia and the following decisions: Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in 2006, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute 2006, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Employment Institute 2006, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Motorways for 2006, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2006, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Resolution of Banks for 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47860	Thank you. Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Honored Representative, President Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47861	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, the esteemed MPs. The Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 38th session held on November 21st 2005, discussed the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with a draft budget projection for 2007, with the corresponding contributions submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 15 November 2005. The Committee shall be based on Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on that proposal for a state budget with corresponding contributions discussed as an interested working body. The opening statement was submitted by the President of the Proposer. Without discussion, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 and the decisions in question. Decisions on granting consent to the proposal for a financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Decisions on granting consent to the proposal for a financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Decisions on granting consent to the proposal for a financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Employment Institute, Decisions on granting consent to the proposal for a financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Waters, Decisions on granting consent to the proposal for a financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Motorways, Decisions on granting consent to the proposal for a financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Roads, Decisions on granting consent to the proposal for a financial plan for the 2006 financial plan for 2006 of the State Agency for the Insurance of Depositary Deposits and Resolutions of Banks, Decisions on granting consent to the 2006 financial plan for the Croatian Fund for the privatisation and Decision on the implementation of the financial plan for the financial year 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47862	Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture. President, Honorable Representative Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47863	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On 17 November 2005, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with a draft budget for 2007 and 2008 and the Final Bill on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 15 November 2005. The Committee considered the issue as an interested working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The participants of the debate argued that the movement of the total amounts foreseen for the activities of education, science and culture in the 2006 National Budget Proposal is moving above, nominally above the corresponding global amounts of the 2005 budget, when taking into account the methodological differences in the scope of the 2006 Budget Proposal compared to the budgets so far, the embodied funds of some funds, i.e. the purpose. Such a proposal still does not allow the adoption of a state budget in which the composition would significantly increase the funds in favour of those activities, which are strategically and generally accepted national commitment. The part of the participants in the debate in such a situation points out that, in the context of a limited real increase in the total funds and in the course of the redistribution of the part of the budget proposed so far, it is nevertheless achieved to provide for adequate resources in favour of the new services, programmes and international commitments that Croatia includes in the programmes and standards of the European Union, the Bologna Process and other requirements which we have made available internationally. It is also indicated that the growing role of some extra- budget entities and instruments such as the National Science Foundation, the Institute of Monumental Rents, then the international banks, funds in financing these activities. In doing so, the resources of state and county, municipal and urban budgets can play an important initial role. Several members of the Committee pointed to cases of stagnation or fall of the amounts foreseen for each purpose by asking the question of the damages that the overall development may result from. In the debate on the final draft law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 it was also pointed to the legal and technical failure of the editorial nature to call on the number of articles and was called on by the proposer to settle the issue in a timely manner. Explanations have also been requested, which were not at the Committee meeting of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports in the meantime, and therefore the request has been met. The Committee unanimously supports the application sent by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts to the Ministry of Finance for the re-use of parts of the 2005 budget in favour of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, in keeping with the circumstances of the fate of the budgets approved for the project Croatia, Europe and other reasons that the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts points out. Conclusion: It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with a proposal for a budget projection for 2007 and 2008. And the final draft law implementing the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. It is a unanimous conclusion of the Committee's members that the draft budget in the section intended for education, science and culture is moving within the limits of the real but for the reasons already stated it should seek greater steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47864	Thank you. The Tourism Committee. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the esteemed representative of President Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47865	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a projection and so on at its 30th session held on 21 November. The Committee also considered the proposal for a state budget as an interested working body. In accordance with its section of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed in more detail those parts of the draft budget relating to co-financing and financing, pardons, programmes and activities aimed at achieving the rights of national minorities, protection and promotion of human rights and support for Croatian minorities or Croatian minorities in European countries. At the beginning of the debate, it was stated in principle that the classifications and names of certain budget items are not given in an appropriate manner in the draft budget. It was warned that last year, in the debate on the State budget for 2005, the Committee has pointed out that as a user, the Budget is nominated professional service of the Council for National Minorities because the content of the budget items shows that this should be a Council for National Minorities. Namely, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as an institution with established rights and obligations has established... /Bell./... Thank you, Mr. President, a Council for National Minorities has been established while the expert advice service is only its professional body for whose work only one small part is used within the framework of the total resources provided for by the Council. The name of this budget item should be strictly aligned with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities or as the holder of the funds of the Budget at 02-021. Specify the Council for National Minorities, not the Expert Service of the Council. When it comes to financial support for programmes and activities relating to the exercise of the law of established rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, it is pleased to note that the total funds are proposed for the National Minority Council with an increase of around 21%. As part of this is intended for associations and institutions of national minorities, it also increases by 21.22% and 24 million in 2005, respectively, to 29 million in 2006. It is the means used for information and publishing, cultural amateurism, etc., all foreseen by the Constitutional Act on National Minorities. As regards programmes and activities relating to the exercise of the rights of national minorities to education and education in minority language and letter, it has been concluded that the means to promote the education of national minorities are foreseen for 2006 with an amount of 3 million kuna, representing the same amount as for 2005. For specific programmes for education of national minorities in 2006, the amount of millions and 500 000 was proposed, and a million kuna was provided for these programmes in 2005. And for preschool education and education of children of members of national minorities is one million and 500 thousand kuna, which is also the same as in 2005. It has been pointed out that these amounts do not make it clear how much resources are provided for printing and translation of textbooks for the purposes of teaching in minority language and letter, as it should be said to have priority because textbooks are one of the basic concepts for teaching. Due to years behind in the printing of textbooks, it is estimated that it is necessary to allocate about 6 million kuna for that purpose to address this acute problem of minority education at least somewhat. In particular, the debate pointed out the need to ensure assumptions for the implementation of the national programme for Roma adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the 2006 Budget said that the funds proposed were higher than in 2005, but that this was still not in line with the needs and amounts provided for in the national programme, especially if there was a delay in achieving that programme. Regarding the financial support of Croatian minorities in European countries, it has been stressed, not listening to us, Mr. President, you see. With regard to the financial support of Croatian minorities in European countries, it has been stressed that the draft budget cannot determine for which all the purposes of this assistance are provided, and how much funding for these plans. In fact, the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration in the 2006 Budget is not listed in the item "Help for National Minorities abroad" for 2005. And if the 2005 budget for these needs is intended to amount to a million kuna, while for... a year for this purpose suggests a million and 500 kuna amount. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in the material bearing the designation "Annex 3." The explanation of the financial plan of the users of the state budget on page 2.6 says something quite complicated, however, which suggests that one figure was spent last year and it was planning, excuse me, and it was 3 million kuna funds, but it is not visible in the budget, so it seems that it is now an increase of 100%, and it would actually result in a reduction, and it is through the necessary finances for Croats outside Croatia, for Croatian minorities in European countries and in general for Croats outside Croatia. In the debate, she was also warned of funds intended to care for exiles. Specially indicated in the manner of spending the funds provided in the state budget for the Republic Fund "King Zvonimir". The government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministry, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development have not yet provided the necessary explanation, although it is explicitly requested in the debate on the 2005 Budget. It has been said that there is a difference in the allocation of funds given the ethnicity of war victims, that representatives of the Croatian Parliament are not included in the fund, and that there is no control over its operations, although it is large budget funds, 235 million in 2005, 2006. 195 million. The Croatian Parliament has no record of the fact that the race is managed by the fund or by any means, it is said on the board. It is therefore requested that the competent ministry and the government present a report on the work of the said fund during the debate on the draft budget to the Parliament, the "King Zvonimir" Fund. As regards the funds for programmes and actions of human rights protection and promotion guidelines, we find that the proposal for a 2006 budget proposes increased resources, partly from international programmes. However, the dissatisfaction with the amount proposed for the Ombudsman's Office is therefore followed by the next amendment, as we have repeatedly pointed to this problem over the years. The State Amendment is the following, in the budget item, the Office of the Public Prosecutor, page 342 of the Budget, the amount proposed for 2006 of 4 million 691 thousand 244 kuna should be increased by 720 thousand 337 kuna, replacing the amount of 5 million 414 581 kuna, because human rights are important. A little long, but human rights are important. That is why we adopted this budget which increases the funding for human rights and the rights of national minorities on the board with 7 votes in favour and 3 abstentions with such an amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47866	Thank you very much. The Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government, President-in-Office of the Honored Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47867	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, ministers. The Committee for Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Parliament at the 37th session held on 22 November discussed the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with a proposal for a projection of the 2007 and 2008 budget. The Committee discussed the matter in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that act as an interested working body. According to the opinion of part of the Committee members, the proposal of the State Budget of Croatia for 2006 did not provide adequate funding for the financing of decentralised functions of cities, counties and municipalities. In this regard, it has been concluded that by increasing the funds in this position by only 1.69% compared to the previous year, given inflation, the existing level of the financial standard of public needs in activities that are decentralised cannot be maintained. In addition, the debate highlighted the recently adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, which extends the work of units of local and regional, regional self-government, which primarily refers to the issue of building and location permits and other works related to construction, and the implementation of spatial planning documents, which would require the provision in the 2006 budget of funds to be transferred to local self-government units. In this respect, the opinion under which the law can not be implemented if the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 does not provide funds for decentralised transactions established by that law. It was found that the proposal for a financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Roads also did not provide sufficient resources at the position of the capital donation to the County Road Administration. Namely, the proposal for a financial plan for 2006 for the Croatian road in the position is the same as in 2005, which means that it will not be enough for the minimum maintenance of county roads, let alone that these funds have been redistributed to large cities that have been granted public road maintenance. In this regard, of course, it was pointed out that the costs of road infrastructure are significantly higher in view of their situation and that the amount of capital aid to the county administrations should be significantly increased. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose, by a majority, 6 votes and 2 votes against, to the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47868	Order! The Agriculture and Forestry Committee? No, I don't. Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Committee President-in-Office Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47869	Dear Mr President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 54th session held on 21 November discussed the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 in the section concerning the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Security Service and the Office of the National Security Council, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. In its presentation, the Government representative presented a macroeconomic framework for the adoption of this year's budget and the main objectives of the budget, as well as the structure and assessment of the movement of public expenditure. The mandated representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Security Services, the anti-intelligence agencies, intelligence agencies, the Military Security Agency and the Office of the National Security Council have individually explained the planned budget items and have declared that the resources provided for are sufficient to carry out all the tasks and activities in the following 2006 year. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 in the text as proposed by the applicant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47870	Thank you. The Committee on Information, Information and Media? No, I don't. The Committee on Gender Equality? No, I don't. The War Veterans Committee? Yeah. Dear President, MP Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47871	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Council for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 19th session held on 21 November the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 proposed by the Government by act of 15 November 2005. The sittings were attended by representatives of associations stemming from the Homeland War. The proposing representatives then explained the basic features of the draft budget both in general and in positions of interest to the Committee. In the main ministry of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity in the position of care for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, funds amounting to 4 billion and 194 million kuna or 7,85% more than in 2005 were planned. The majority of these funds amounting to $3.1 billion or 74% are intended to pay disability and family pensions, which is an increase of 5.84% and for the payment of permanent rights is intended for 835 million kuna or 19.9%, which is an increase of 9.44%. Of the significant items, it is necessary to mention the increase in funding planned for the recruitment of Croatian defenders from 16% compared to 2005 and to present them with a proposal for a budget of 35 million kuna. A slight increase of 1.8% of the funds for psychosocial assistance to Croatian defenders is 12.6 million kuna. A large increase in records and funds intended for exhumation and identification of victims from the Homeland War planned to amount to 6.88 million kuna, 41% more than last year. Attending representatives of Homeland War associations had no significant objections to the draft budget. It expressed satisfaction with the significant increase in funds intended for exhumation of victims from the Homeland War and expressed hope that a significant part of these funds would be used to identify already exhumed bodies, knowing that they were waiting for it for several years. The members of the Committee expressed satisfaction with the proposed amounts of funds intended for the implementation of laws greater than 2 to 10% compared to last year. The biggest problem is the reduction of funds intended to provide housing for the victims of the Homeland War from 189 million to 184 million, which is about 2.5% lower. Knowing the number of about 13,000 victims who are entitled to housing, the rate of 1,200 approximately the victim's annual care is not satisfactory and these resources should be increased. The question was also asked about the sufficiency of the planned funds for the salaries of disabled and family pensions, knowing about the problem of paying the translated pensions under the 2001 law and ensuring the funds for the payment of the victims of the Croatian Defence Council, which will be taken over by the Republic of Croatia through the conclusion of an international agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there was another remark. The draft budget does not show whether the amount of funds planned for the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre from the Homeland War is planned. After the debate was held, the Committee reached the following conclusion: It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 and to adopt decisions on the consent of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's Finance Plan, on the financial plan of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, on the consent to the Finance Plan of the Institute for Employment, on the consent to the Croatian Waters' Finance Plan, on the consent to the Croatian Highways' Finance Plan, on the consent to the Croatian Roads' Finance Plan, on the financing plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, on the consent of the Croatian Institute's Finance Plan for Privatisation and on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47872	Thank you. The Justice Committee? The president, the esteemed representative, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47873	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the 34th session held on 21 November 2005, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the State Budget for 2006, with a proposal for a budget projection for 2007 and 2008 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 15 November 2005. The Committee discussed the proposal for a state budget as an interested working body. In the opening statement of the proposing representatives, she explained briefly the proposal for a State budget for 2006 as a whole, which was increased by 9.4% compared to 2005, which is partly the result of the inclusion in the budget revenues which so far led to extra- budget revenues, and therefore the real growth of budget revenues is 6.4% while expenditure growth is 4.34% and the budget deficit is planned at 2%. This committee focused particular attention on the part of the budget relating to the judicial system. A representative of the Ministry of Justice explained the division of 110 of the Ministry of Justice, which includes 363 users whose proposal for a plan was presented through programmes, activities and projects. The proposal for a 2006 budget for the Ministry of Justice totals 2 billion 70 million 652 thousand 862 kuna, which is 3.9% higher than the planned funds in 2005. It has been pointed out that the funds for salaries in the judiciary are growing 2%, for material expenditures 0.35% compared to the funds in 2005. The planned capital expenditures account for a growth of 33%, primarily for information, an integrated management system for judicial files which has increased the funds compared to the previous year by as much as 147%, thus ensuring systematic monitoring of the work of the judicial institutions and employees of the CARDS and the PHARE programmes. Capital investments in buildings of which are the most significant realisation of the Square of Justice in Zagreb in the Square of Justice in Split, along with 17 other locations and facilities in the state. It is pointed out that the lack of budgetary resources and the enormous need of the judiciary in terms of capital investment in buildings and the regulation of space can be solved through the achievement of a public-private partnership. In the debate, the Committee members supported the proposed State budget for 2006, assessing that despite the high demands of users, laws and projects already adopted, they had support in the proposed budget. Respecting the reasons given by the applicant's representative for the importance of the most significant projects of the Committee members, the detailed explanation of the capital expenditures for the remaining 17 locations was interested. In support of the Ministry of Justice's efforts to reform the judiciary, implement planned programmes and activities, it has been pointed to a number of problems of individual courts, especially in small areas that work in extremely difficult conditions without equipment and assistance that must be found in the projection of the state budget and judicial reform. The members of the Committee expressed interest in investment projects in the penitentiary and prison systems, the approval of staffing funds, the purchase of the necessary equipment, since they supported requests from the Department of Prison System of the Ministry of Justice in discussions on the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2003 and 2004. The importance of realisation is highlighted by the plans of the Judicial Academy and the establishment of its regional centres, as well as the provision of sufficient budgetary resources for the implementation of the strategy and reform of the judicial system adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and supported by this Committee. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with a proposal for a projection of the 2007 and 2008 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47874	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health? No, I don't. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? For work? You're going, aren't you? Okay. Dear Representative, President Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47875	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 40th meeting of the Committee held on 21 November 2005 discussed the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with a proposal for projections of the 2007 and 2008 budget, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 15 November 2005. The Committee discussed the proposal for a state budget as an interested working body, in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the opening statement of the applicant's representative, the debate was particularly carried out in relation to parts of the budget relating to the health and pension system. The debate on the state of the health system pointed out that this system has the largest share in the budget with the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which is evident from the funds planned by individual ministries. The expenditure in the health care system, however, has been increased, and the growing gap between the rights and the Health Protection Act is also increasing compared to the financial resources available to this system. The projected increase in revenues in the following year for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute of about 200 million kuna with a constant growth in consumption will be very difficult to enable the system to function. This state of health makes it more difficult to invest in the Clinical Hospital Center of Zagreb, which although it is not approved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia practically blocks investments in healthcare in the next 3 years. Primary healthcare warned due to increased demands in recent months already lacks funds. The emergency reform of the health system since 1st half of 2006 which will provide for additional co-financing with increased control of spending is necessary for this system to continue to function independently. A positive increase in social contributions, active employment policy, maternity benefits, rights of defenders and benefits for the unemployed is assessed in the course of the debate. Some members of the Committee warned in a debate on the pension system that the new formula for calculating pensions to be applied from 1 January 2006 is more unfavourable for pensioners and is a reduction in pension rates in GDP, and on the other hand nothing is done to stop the new trend of retirement. After the discussion, the members of the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by 1 vote, for the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006, and for the next decision. Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2006, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance for 2006, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Employment Institute for 2006, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2006, Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2006, Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2006, and Decisions on granting consent to the financial plan of the State Agency for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47876	Thank you very much. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. President-in-Office Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47877	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At the 34th session held on 21 November 2005, the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee discussed the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with a proposal for a projection of the 2007 and 2008 budget. The Committee considered the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a projection of the 2007 and 2008 budget as an interested working body. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who specifically referred to the area of competence of the Committee's work. The debate discusses the proposed solutions to the way in which the revenue and expenditure of the beneficiaries of the budgetary resources in the Committee's competences are managed. The opinion is expressed that the resources planned in the 2006 National Budget proposal with a projection proposal for 2007 and 2008 do not allow for the necessary development of all areas in the work of this Committee. Special attention is given to the lack of funds for the development of Croatian railways, construction of Croatian highways and Croatian roads, island development, development of inland waterways, construction of river ports. It also points to the necessity of building an airport in Zagreb, given its strategic position and importance, which is not sufficiently planned in the proposal of the State budget in 2006. After the discussion of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament, the majority of the vote with 6 votes for and 1 against the Croatian Parliament proposes to bring the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with a budget projection in 2007, 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47878	Thank you very much. Immigrant Committee, President Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47879	... Ladies and gentlemen. [[Specially enabled.]] At the 19th session held on 21st of this month, the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with a proposal for a projection of the 2007 and 2008 Budget submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 15 November 2005. The Committee held a debate on the items of the State budget setting out funds for immigrants, emigrants, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croatian national minority or Croatian national minorities. The representative, or Mr. Minister, briefly explained the proposal of the State budget and pointed out that for the first time it contains all revenue and all expenditure. The total increase in the 2006 budget compared to the 2005 budget is 3 billion 949 million kuna. The Committee members noted that additional expenditure could only be covered by tax increases. Funds intended for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Croatian minority and for education of children and Croatian citizens abroad have not been reduced. He added that the government will not submit its amendments to the State budget proposal, any increases in some assets, some items could be determined by the budget rebalance if there is one. The members of the board held the opinion that the funds set out for the Croatian national minority, which are now to be pooled on the items of resolution ministries by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the distribution of funds by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to bring the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with a projection of the 2007 and 2008 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47880	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There are 11 clubs and now 81 MPs and MPs. The first SDP representative club, respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47881	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The old folk proverb says "whoever under another pit digs himself into it falls." When, exactly two years ago, you glued Croatia to this Pinocchio, mocking the past government with the price of gasoline, you were actually looking at your long nose. Since then, the price of gasoline has increased 2 and a half kuna, and it is important to know that of this rising price, the most benefits you have are through VAT which you have not reduced and per liter of gasoline today you collect 40 limes more. Instead of being, like, The Belgian government returned money to the citizens or reduced VAT you advised Croatian citizens to drive more in one car or to drive city transport. You bought yourself new high-class cars at the same time. Just like this Pinocchio you glued in Croatia with gasoline and car purchase is with your 2006 budget. You speak one thing, the other you think, and the third you work. This budget is only seemingly social, since development has nothing, and its only real goal is to ensure HDZ's victory in next year's elections. You leave the country's development and better life for the citizens of this country to another government. It is a shame, gentlemen of the government, and it is a precedent in Croatia that they are in this budget, Mr. President, please. So, it's a disgrace to the government gentlemen, and it's a precedent that this budget was first seen by HDZ members, and that's what your mayors, the mayors, the mayors who then decided how much money they needed for certain projects, and we in the House were left to decide about crumbs. We are gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, not the clause. Your problem is that you don't have a creative policy, you have a restrictive policy. Instead of health reform, we got a tax on disease, instead of tax policy and the pre-electional reduction of VAT, we got an elimination of tax relief for citizens, instead of encouraging entrepreneurship, we got a suspension of credit lines, but a significant increase in promotion in the Ministry of Economy. Instead of the employment programme, we have been given the abolition of active employment policy measures, instead of ensuring the rights of workers, we will get the suspension of work on Sundays in trade, instead of the final reckoning with the grey economy we would now solve it by counting in GDP for statistics to look better on you. Instead of the serious and systematic fight against crime and corruption, we got general uncertainty, and on a scale of corruption according to the "transparens international" went three steps backwards compared to last year. I remind you, last year, when Croatia also fell on the scale, you accused the former government. Now who's to blame? Maybe the "transparency" methodology? Instead of the promise of ending the sale of Croatia "Liburni" you thought quietly to push into the hands of suspicious funds, instead of the development of civil society, we received an end to protests on Mark's square, justly a terrorist threat, probably from our own workers. Instead of the prevention campaign, you introduced 0 proms and bought interceptors. Instead of the promise to suspend the TV subscription to the pensioners, it has grown. For the second year in a row, we get a budget that must first ensure HDZ's victory. Last year in the local elections, next year in the state elections. The fact that Croatia has been stagnating for the third year, i.e. which, to serve your pre-election slogan, you have launched Croatia, but backwards it is less important to you. At the end of this government's term in this way, with this kind of policy, we'll all be on the social side. The social picture of Croatia is extremely poor and many people live on the poverty line. Those who call for savings to grow in Croatia must tell citizens the truth to the end. It saves only a small number of citizens, while most live in debt. I'll prove it very plastic and prove it to you. According to the State Statistics Institute, the average salary in Croatia is 4000 417 kuna. When we subtract the costs of housing, hygiene, clothing and transportation that for the four-member family according to the calculations of independent Croatian trade unions last month, for example in Zagreb, which is not the most expensive city in Croatia, totaled 3 thousand 491 kuna, 925 kuna remains for food per month. Split it up for 30 days and come to the fact that for food a day the four-member family remains just a little less than 31 kuna a day. You know what the government gentlemen can buy for that? Here, take a look for this 31 kuna four-member Croatian family can buy a kilo of circle, liter of milk, a kilo of potatoes and a kilo of mustard. You have made this possible by your policy to the four-member family daily. The average family has no other meat, if they are angry and can call themselves meat or fruit to children, let alone chocolate or extracurricular activities. Learning a foreign language, going to the cinema, to the sea for the average Croatian family is too much luxury. God didn't give you a chance to get sick yet, because then half a kilo of these a kilo of apricots falls away. You can only afford them to children and you're left with potatoes. Not to mention what it's like to be a pensioner or if you have a student child and it's out of your place of residence. Whatever you HDZ gentlemen think, and here you're throwing me the fact that our citizens are living worse and worse. That that's what they say and the data that the average salary from last year increased slightly less than 9%. During the same period, the price of bread increased 22%, flour 46%, milk 12%, kilograms of peas 60% and kilograms of chicken meat 20%. The government also boasts of the debt to the pensioners. The SDP was the first to admit that the pensioner's debt existed and began to repay it. Now that debt returns are speeding up, and we support it. However, it is the solution of a small part of the pensioner itself. Here's the information. Two years ago in November 2003, so before your victory in the elections according to official data of the Pension Insurance Institute, the average pension with the bonuses during which he was repaying his debt was a thousand 723 kuna, which was then 44% of the average salary. Today, the average pension is a thousand 857 kuna. So in two years, the pension has grown by 134 kuna. However, as an average salary, it fell to 42%. If we add inflation that has risen to a high 4.1%, that growth of 134 kuna is, in fact, a steep drop in terms of growth of almost all prices. Well, as we can see, you're taking good care of the pensioners. Compared to this pound of heart I brought here in November last year cost 8 kuna and now costs between 16 and 20. Which is only with differences in pensions for people with the same job experience, with the same salary but different pensions. We are against decomposition among individual groups as well as within individual groups of our citizens. We are against politics that leads to rich people being richer and poorer. That this is how it is confirmed and the data that show that we are becoming less and less productive in Croatia and that we are spending more and more on luxury products, not on food. Let's get back to inflation. The data suggests that it is growing permanently, that the cost of living rises, and that is mostly due to rising food prices, as well as electricity, heating and wages and pensions remain almost the same. This means that in this year our citizens will be able to buy less and be able to live much worse. The annual inflation rate has reached its highest value in the last three and a half years, 4.1%. There are no necessary reforms in this budget because you have not provided money for them. Reform is necessary in the economy, health care, education, state administration, agriculture and none will be anything. That is also the problem with the European Union. We have all given support for joining the European Union but the European Union is also warning that unless we have a quality policy to address the problem, there will be no entry into the European Union. The health problems have not been solved except for the unsettled directors, hospital debts have grown to €800 million this year and the solution to these problems is not possible without reform moves that you do not have and which you do not intend to implement. There is no investment in education and an increase of 7% because it's only an increase in the return of the part you took in education with rebalancing. To talk after three years about the debt being left by the former government shows only that you are incompetent and that you do not know how to solve problems. With all the resources this government requires of the Croats only one thing, which is tightening the belt because you are unable to organise the state and solve problems. At the time you were in the opposition, you were making a fuss and you were very concerned about the country's level of duty. The only thing you knew to do when you came to power was to slow down the overall external debt but therefore enormously increase the country's internal responsibility. Foreign or internal, my dear gentlemen, is a debt and this is how the increased debt will all be paid by the citizens and they know it very well. That you're not creative in solving the problem we see but that's why you don't lack creativity in misleading the public. I remind you again last week of Prime Minister Sanader's statement that the grey economy should be counted in GDP and tourism in exports. This says that you failed to enter the battle with the gray economy as you promised citizens in the election campaign, but that's why you decided to sacrifice the future of our society and our children for the apparent improvement of the situation. Such behaviour is socially, politically and socially irresponsible. And all for breaking one party. For the third year, HDZ authorities have received a budget that could be characterised by three words "start Croatia back". No development here, no living standards, no investment in knowledge, no needed reforms, no new employment. And finally, gentlemen of the government, don't start talking after my speech again about the policy of the last government and its guilt for your failures. The SDP and its coalition partners lost the election two years ago and you now and in half of your mandate have clearly won them on the wings of unreal pre-election promises that you cannot even know how to make. And that is why, gentlemen, the next election, whenever you call them, you will lose.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47882	Thank you very much. We only have a few 17 corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative, Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47883	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I'm correcting the inaccuracy of the one that my colleague Opacic made in this debate, but on behalf of the club. You told your colleagues that the government was incompetent instead of ensuring development she bought expensive cars for the fleet of government and parliament. I will tell you why she bought it and what is actually true, precisely because you concluded a harmful contract during the former government signed by Mr Linic and Mr Goran Granic. /The noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47884	Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to allow every speaker not to be disturbed or prevented in his speech. I also made it possible for the respected representative Milanka Opačić, who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club. And please, we all stick to that. Go ahead, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47885	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I mean accuracy. I think you heard me tell you in advance that you're short-term. It is true that during the former government, Mr. Linic, while he was vice president and Mr. Granic concluded a harmful contract for the government in general because of the company ITR that belonged to the INA, they concluded a harmful contract and rented cars that cost the Republic of Croatia per month one Audi 9 thousand kuna, one Passat 8 thousand kuna. So I'm asking you if it was the development of the economy in the former government. So we can buy a couple of fleets... [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47886	Thank you very much. Second Amendment Dear Representative, Vice-President Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected MP Zeljka Antunovic. ... [[The intruders don't understand.]] Peace, please! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47887	Mr. President. It is very nice that you protect the right of MPs to express their views but you must not allow them to abuse the Rules of Procedure without you going over it and on the contrary, instead of stopping them when you see that you are definitely injuring the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Peace please!]] A colleague has the right to present his assessments of the former government as we in the opposition have the right to present the evaluations of the current government but we must all without exception stick to the Rules of Procedure with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47888	Thank you very much. First of all, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because by reporting for breach of the Rules of Procedure, you should have marked which provision of the Rules of Procedure is and who has violated it. Secondly, it is not a matter of any injury to the Rules of Procedure, because the representative Bozica Šolić was correcting in her position the incorrect allegations presented by the representative Please, don't, we won't discuss it that way. [[The intruders don't understand.]] I gave an explanation. The quote was made. The quote is questionable as incorrect and that's all. And that's all. Honorable deputy president Darko Milinovic. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Whose injury, Agent Lonchar? Here you go. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Give me your word.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47889	Mr. President, you've injured article 214 and colleague Zeljka Antunovic, too, and now I'm going to say which? Article 214 and paragraph 4 where it is said: "Advocacy shall be given notice if it comes to a breach of the Rules of Procedure or correction of an incorrect statement, and it shall begin to speak of another subject which it has not received." You should have given it a warning and interrupted it. So you've broken the Rules of Procedure and her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47890	I didn't break the Rules of Procedure because a member of the Rules of Procedure was called. I've claimed that it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and my discretion is whether or not I'm going to give the counsel a warning. And give the ladies and gentlemen representatives, please. Further correction of the incorrect quote by Vice President Darko Milinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47891	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, I first thought it was a lapus of distinguished MPs Opačić, but she repeated two or three times that we wanted to win the election. That's true, but not next year, but in 2007. The second correction to the incorrect quote you said, quote: "The government has passed some laws by fearing workers." If we had been afraid of workers, then they would have been treated like you treated the workers of the Zelezare Sisak by blowing them away with pens and tear gas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47892	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47893	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Opacic said that instead of health reform, a tax on disease was introduced. Administrative fees are not a tax on disease. This is a common tax that exists in most European Union countries, without any reform procedures being done in health care being incorrect. In the last year and a half, almost two days, all the measures we've taken in health care have resulted in a 20% reduction in consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47894	Fourth correction by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47895	I thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to correct a few incorrect allegations although there are a lot of them, but I hope the rest of my colleagues will stay. I would say first that my colleague said there was no investment in science, no education, no investment in education, that it was just the return of some promised donations from last year, which were reportedly taken down, but only for your information and the public compared to 2003, the separation year for science and education increased 22%. So compared to the pre-election year of the SDP. It is therefore incorrect that there is no investment and it is incorrect that social rights are not increased. It's also incorrect because they're increased, it can be seen from this calculation. And finally, my co-workers, it seems to me that that anger you brought here is a little stinky for you. It's like this, you can hear it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47896	Honorable representative Bekavac, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47897	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The distinguished colleague claimed that the Croatian government is thinking one thing, speaking the other, and the third one is doing what is not true. And it is true that this government knows very well what it does at the beginning... /The speaker is off./... and in the second part of the mandate it moves decisively into the realization... /The speaker is off./ Because we paid your debts and hidden accounts to you and your coalition partners. .../The speaker has been disabled./... [[Intruder: Watch the microphone.]] Well, I speak loud enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47898	No, don't turn off anyone's microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47899	And what can I... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47900	Yeah. Dear Representative Vladimir Jelkovec. The next correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47901	Mr. President Opacic said we've been getting a third-year budget to ensure HDZ's victory. There is no budget that someone apriori... /The speaker has been disabled./... So there is no budget that provides someone with a pre-election victory but only responsible and quality work and therefore the HDZ gets elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47902	Next correction, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47903	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Opačić that the SDP was the first to admit that a pensioner's debt exists. That is not true because it is a court decision, and it is your representative, Mr Vidovic, who recently stated that there is no debt to the pensioners. And I would add this kind of black and pessimistic exposition of my colleague Opačić on behalf of the SDP Club is talking about the state of their party, of the hopelessness and inadequacy in which they found themselves. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47904	Gentlemen, someone's playing with microphones. She's playing yes, yes, colleague Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47905	Because after 4 years of your senselessness, pessimism and incompetence that you have spread to Croatia finally has a government that is successful and has a clear vision of Croatia's development.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47906	I'll wait for the applause to quiet down and give the word to the next one. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47907	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleague Opacic is not exactly that this Croatian government has bought expensive cars. Buying from Leasing, you are at least a lawyer so you must know what the difference is, and this Croatian government did not rent from Rent a car 22 cars. Each car cost a month 9 thousand kuna, 22 times 900 is 98 thousand kuna, times 5 years, ask your colleague Linic what that means. This government has not replaced the directors of hospitals in Croatia, it did not do what you did in 2000, you replaced 35 ambassadors in the first month of your mandate and general consulates, it is not under the reorganisation of the Ministry of Interior and Defence that replaced those people who have won the freedom of the Croatian people and you are enjoying it today in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47908	Next Amendment, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47909	It corrects the false assumption that Croatia has been in recession for 3 years, i.e. to stagnate for 3 years, it is not true. The increase in gross national income is 3%, the increase in production from 3% last year increased to 5% this year, the increase in imports compared to your mandate, real growth pays 3%, nominally 6%. If it's a stagnation, it's a policy I don't understand. Another incorrect allegation is that inappropriate directors have been removed. Directors who had 24% income expenditure were removed, today they have 3.5%. So they're not being inappropriate, they're being incompetent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47910	The next amendment, the respected representative Mario Zubovic,
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47911	Thank you, Mr. President. I've got to fix up my colleague Opačić. She said we made false promises. Mrs. Opacic said that we made false promises, and I think that our guarantee card, which you can get, I can give it to you. We've almost fulfilled our promises in these two years, and we still have two years. And as I heard your party colleague was just before you went to expose your exposure said you were going to perform a show here. I think it was really one show, I don't know why they talked you into it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47912	Next Amendment, Honored Representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47913	Mr. President. Mrs Opačić, I must tell her that it is not true that Croatia is stagnating because the world is not talking about it either. Mrs. Opacic didn't talk about the budget, and I'm contesting that. Instead, instead of analysing the draft budget and giving well-intentioned suggestions, she gave an outdated speech to a tried-out communist propaganda that no longer pays for it. Her speech, therefore, was not creative as she spoke of creativity, but was transparent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47914	Okay, clapping continues. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47915	I am correcting the incorrect SDP statement only said by Mrs Milnaka Opačić, and its sentence reads: "The less produced in Croatia.", which is incorrect because, as the pre-burden budget has not even been criticised in the media, it has now made no effort to reach pages 3 and 4 of the budget explanations, so it would clearly and loudly read the growth rates of industrial production, which I will limit to, therefore pure production of newly created products in Croatia, which accounts for a growth of 6.6%, with the highest contribution of food and drink production of 5.8%, and publishing and printing activities, so clean industrial production is growing much more and more in a larger percentage than it has been growing in the last 3.4 years. And not to say now all those other rates that were in every month. So once again, the total annual cumulative growth rate is nine months, five percent of industrial production, and that's true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47916	Thank you. The fourth amendment, the 13th amendment, the respected representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47917	Mr. President. Mrs. Representative said, "Our citizens are living worse and worse.", even represented by the Sabbath market, prices from the Sabbath market. I'm correcting an incorrect quote that reads, our citizens lived better three years ago, but they weren't aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47918	The 14th Amendment, Honored Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47919	Mr. President. Well, here's a similar quote, people live worse, so they've even accumulated andred. It's been 10 kunas all season, but these days they've been picking up strawberries, I have to admit. Now, people buy around 100,000 cars a year. We have, I don't know, a million, two, three cell phones, look at everything. 200 thousand skiers will soon go skiing, all empty stomachs. I think the claim is based on entirely false assumptions that people are leaving the SDP mass because they've collected membership fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47920	Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47921	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Opačić that there is no investment in education and that they see incompetence in this. This is incorrect because in 2006 2 million kuna and 900 thousand kuna are invested in preschool education, in basic schooling 96 million kuna, in secondary schooling 116 million kuna, in higher education 280 million kuna, in science 18 million kuna, unlike last year 132 million kuna more and directly from the state budget. And capital investment in education from other sources, mostly from the World Bank, is another 67.8 million kuna for preschool education 975 thousand, primary schooling 30 million, secondary schooling 15 million etc. Then, a colleague mentioned that employment, namely, scientific money in 2003 was 0, 2004. 588, 2005. 162 employed them in these two years 750 new scientific recruits and this is investing in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47922	Sixteenth Amendment, Honored Representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47923	The debate began very lively about the budget, which is quite fine. And what I'd like to correct. My colleagues said and showed one of our pre-election posters where it stands, saying the only thing we knew was to slow down the growth of foreign debt. I don't think that's true, because if it's true that in 2003 the external debt increased by 9 billion euros and it was 19 billion at that time, and today it's 24, then it turns out that we have significantly slowed the growth of that external debt, we have significantly slowed the growth of that external debt. In addition, in 2003, the budget deficit was 6.3%, and we're bringing it down to 4.2 today next year to 3rd, and I'm asking you actually where this country would have come if we had continued the dynamics of these trends that we found in 2003. But I don't have to ask you that, but that's what the citizens said in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47924	And the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47925	Thank you, Mr. President. Commenting on the 2006 budget, counterpart Opacic said there was no new employment. That's just not true. Apparently, the colleague did not look at all that, all those measures proposed by the Ministry of Economy and other ministries. And when it comes to unemployment, then I will remind her that the unemployment rate in 2001 was 22, and in 2002, during the meaning of your government, 22.3%, which is also the largest unemployment rate since 1995, and that year you also broke through unfortunately, the famous border of 400 thousand unemployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47926	Thank you very much. If we go with that pace and that style, that we have at every club or representatives this amount of correction, then we're going to watch the final series of "Long Dark Film." At 17.34, it was time for an individual debate on this subject. HNS club, respected representative and vice president Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47927	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will share my exposure in four parts related to this budget proposal for 2006 and start and end with some fundamental features of this budget, and some illustrations are listed in the middle. First, as one initial and general finding that I assume you are all aware of, but I don't think it's worse to underline and keep in mind, given the rate of growth and the inflation of all the increases in this budget on certain items or in the ministries that are 7-8%, but let's say 7-7.5% means zero. It's not an increase. It's just a monitoring of inflation and growth rates. Therefore, all increases up to 7%, the first ones are smaller than the increase in the natural growth of the budget itself, and the second ones are in real terms the status quo. So the same condition as last year, the same condition we had last year as we did about investing in certain activities. And the second initial finding here was a lot of talk about debt, about an increase in internal debt, an increase in external debt that, no, how, so let's see what it looked like. In 2000, the Internal Debt was 61 billion, 2003. 85 billion and 2005 104 billion. So between 2000 and 2003, it grew annually between 8 billion and 9.5 billion in 2003. It's a total debt. The Internal Debt in 2000 was 21 billion, 2003. - 34 billion and 2005. 53 billion. So as far as internal debt is concerned, there's been an explosion of internal debt, which is very clear by the numbers. As far as foreign debt is concerned, it was 50 billion in 2003, 2005. - 51. So it wasn't stopped, and the total debt grew by this amount as originally stated, so the total debt accelerated its growth in the government's mandate. It was said for this budget next. It may be that there are these items, but I'm going to ask that question here, so please show me where they are. It's been said for this budget that it's transparent. In that case, please show me where the debt is listed to the pensioners who want to return the total amount immediately from the beginning of next year. If I were to be shown where it is in the budget, in the transparent budget, it would have to be seen where it is. And the second illustration, it was said to be transparent. You all know, and we all know he's in county hospitals, so there's a 2 billion kuna debt in health care. Where is it predicted that this debt will be recovered, back covered? There are claims that the debts of the county hospitals and that there will already be such a decision and law in preparation, that the debts of the county hospitals will be transferred to the counties. I don't know if it's true, but please explain to me whether it's true that it's going to be transferred to the county. If that is true, for example for the Sibenik-Knin County where the debt of the hospital is 100 million kuna meant that its entire budget is equal to that debt that it must cover its hospitals. There may be a item in this budget that covers the debt of county hospitals, but please show me where that item is where these debts are covered because it cannot be found in that transparent budget. It was also said for this budget that he is social. Now in that social budget, the child's allowance is lower by 8.7 million kuna compared to what it was in 2004. It's the same as last year, but since we know we have inflation and growth, then it's de facto smaller. Thus, compared to what we had in 2004, the child's allowance in that social budget is 8.7 million less. Scholarships for regular students may have been hidden somewhere else, but in that social budget, scholarships for regular students melted from 77 million to 2.3 million or 3% of what they amounted to. They may be hiding somewhere else, but in these items they seem to have come from 77 million to 2.3. It is said and spoken in public for this budget that it is also developmental. In this development budget, there is not a single model for a new way, a form of project financing. So there's nothing in the funding models that would suggest that there's a new project hiding there. One of my colleagues or colleagues, I don't remember, mentioned here that they exist and that they were talking about the possibility of funding according to the model of a public private partnership. It may be, but it's not meant to be anywhere. Nowhere is foreseen in any way and how, since it is not a model that can only be applied, it is to be prepared, it is nowhere intended. In other words, everything is the same as last year, and to the extent that the budget is developmental, you can also see if you in general just look at growth by individual ministries. Once again, growth to 7% means that it remains in view of GDP growth and inflation, that it remains at the same rate as last year. What are the two only ministries or activities that have grown? One is a culture, which is a great honor, and the other seems at first sight to the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. Of course, on the other hand, I think it is already mentioned, it is evident that this ministry in available funds has not grown but is only a fictional increase because the Croatian highways and Croatian roads have been introduced into the ministry's budget and the HAC budget. Otherwise, and I'll go back to those figures, otherwise the ministry's budget relative to what was last year de facto even in absolute amounts fell by 281 million and now it's not at what was last year but at the level of what was cut. And another general finding and picture in which, the state of the budget, as we all know from first and second places among the transition countries, Croatia fell to the last 8th place among the Central European countries at the rate of growth. Thus, this too describes the context in which we are today. Other categories than these general indications about which you would like to say something on behalf of the HNS Club are indications of development. Of course, each budget puts emphasis on its structure, where it especially increases funding, shows a picture of development goals or a development model that one who draws up the budget, in this case this government, sees or has for Croatia. The significant leaps in funding can show which projects are the main ones, and through this I would say and then eventually reconstruct the idea of development and development goals that the Government is proposing this budget. So let me point out a series of projects that have increased significantly, so, by a quarter and more, increased funding. So, some of what the government's goals are and what the general picture will come out of. One of those projects that can be seen from the funding that significantly strengthens is the Anti-intelligence Agency, POA. The second is the Ministry of Culture. The third is the Financial Police. Fourth State Treasury and implementation of the State Treasury Reform. Fifth, Croatian hydrographic institute. Sixth, Department of Stocks. Seventh, State Air Protection and Eightth, Competition Protection Agency. If you can from this palette, not to say from this Richte, construct what is the development goal, and what is the development strategy, then you certainly have a great art of synthesizing or creating a model because this cannot show what the development goals are. The combination of intelligence agencies as projects and on the other side of culture, the Hidrographic Institute, does not show what the development model is and what its objectives are. I'd say it's more like there's no consistent development model. It becomes clearer when you look at which are active, loud and in the sky screaming absent, absent projects. Projects he doesn't have. There's no gasification that we've talked about a lot, a hydropower plant, totalling 35 million. Total reform of the energy system. No irrigation. If I'm wrong, I'm asking you to correct me, there's 16 million for irrigation all together. There's no national wholesaler, there's 500 thousand kuna for that. There are no attacks of Mediterranean cultures, there are reductions in resources for regional development, see page 180. Local development agencies totaling 800,000 kuna. My colleagues and colleagues, there is no decentralisation without decentralisation of knowledge. Decentralization of powers, money, but knowledge is not possible to lead and assume all these powers unless we decentralize knowledge. Development agencies are the main instrument for decentralisation of knowledge. For that, we have 800,000 kuna. The only thing that can be read is that there is no decentralisation. By the way, since I'm already on this subject, donations to the county are very interesting from the state budget. It's at least a million and a half, except for two. One is for Ličko-Senj County which is 744 thousand kuna and the other is for Varazdin County for unknowns and for me completely unexplainable reasons 633 thousand kuna. I wonder how such a dramatic disproportion. And finally, you could give me illustrations by the ministries, just give me a minute. I could give illustrations to the ministries because I'm running out of time to discuss, so I'm just going to point out another very unusual, very unusual general data. An intellectual and personal service item appears 500 times in this budget. In that item, don't be angry if it's Europe, then I'm the Queen of England, because mostly...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47928	You're not the English queen, you're the vice president who's now out of time as club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47929	It's just a sentence. Because most, most of the amount of intellectual and personal service is the order of 100 thousand to 300 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47930	It's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47931	A total of 847 million kuna or 57% increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47932	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47933	The HNS Club won't support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47934	Here, again, go the corrections again. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47935	Mr. President, well, there's a colleague who insists the budget isn't developmental. So I don't think there has to be a "R" or "development" or anything like that in every item. There's infrastructure building going into development. Well, here's the final entrepreneurship center, HITRO, and all that contributes to development. However, I must say, my colleagues, we had a councilwoman from her party who had been talking for years in the Municipality of the Council of Sunday, only she said the budget wasn't developmental. That was a comment every year. Unfortunately for her, the municipality has certainly become the most developed municipality in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47936	Second correction, respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47937	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mrs Pusic argued that there are no new funding models that prove the developmental character of this budget. It's just not true. I'll just mention a few examples. The other day, the Minister of Science signed with the European Commissioner for Science, Research and Development, Mr Potočnik... program. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Next, new funding for doctoral studies, further program... scientific recruits, increasing by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47938	Don't whisper over the microphone, 'cause then it's cramping.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47939	Further, a significant increase in investment in scientific equipment. All these items of the budget prove that this budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has a very important developmental character in which research and development is given special attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47940	Third Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47941	I'm correcting Mrs. Pusic's guilty claim that she's an English queen. In fact, the English Queen reads statistical indicators, so if she had read it then I wouldn't have had to correct the following false allegations, which is that the debt, the total debt of the state, is growing. Here on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce's website, the debt dynamics slowed down in the first 8 months of this year, i.e. 27% of dynamics, and the country's share of total debt fell from 34% to 28%. Another incorrect assumption is that there are no funds in the state budget for the debt of county hospitals. If Mrs. Advocacy reads the laws then she would know that according to the Health Protection Act and under the Law on Debt Institutions, institutions are covered by founders, so county. This isn't the county budget, this is the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47942	Thank you. Vice President Pusic did not, she rhetorically used one parable that if she was an English queen, but clearly we are the Republic and that we are not. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47943	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Pusic said there is no development, there is no... There's no... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not true at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not only 35 million kunas separated from the state budget, but you must know it, and you must know it on purpose that two state-owned companies INA and Croatia are the carriers of electricity and the extended hand of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the energy development of Croatia. So what she was saying is about the recent Prime Minister and the other officials when it comes to... know who's the bearer... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , and surely the Croatian government will coordinate between these two great giants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47944	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47945	Mr. President. Mrs. Pusic mentioned gasification. I must say that the gasification was entrusted to a company that was founded during the former government government and it's called "Plinakl" and that firm was simply not so organised as to carry out the gasification, but now this company is established and in a year the pipeline to the Adriatic Sea will be completed. That's one correction. Another correction would be, Mrs Pusic said scholarships have been slightly increased, but she probably does not know that scholarships have been conducted this year in a new way and are in the University's budget. So it's clear they're not here in the budget, but they belong to the university, so it's also completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47946	Thank you. And last, respected representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47947	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said, as the predecessors have already seen, that this budget is not developmental. My colleagues, it is quite a developmental, concrete investment in highway infrastructure in the construction of new highways, and very developmental investment in new water systems, investment in new places, new employment, new job, and quite a developmental one. Just look at those items, and then it'll probably make it more clear to you that it's quite a developmental budget and the other thing can't possibly grow by 7.8% can't be... There is no such equality anywhere, nor... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be nice to explain to your students that growth from 7% to 8% is equal to zero, it's a really very interesting theory, but then they could be applied during your rule period, because these similar criteria applied, so don't talk about it that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47948	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47949	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to intervene because of the Croatian public because there were a number of incorrect and legally unfounded statements here, and because of the Croatian public, I think it should be said. The transparency of one budget is when all costs can be read. If the scholarships this year are divided into universities and you can see this in the text explanation that is made for the first time in activities this year, then you will see that 78.3 million kuna scholarships are distributed to Croatian universities and you can see exactly how many students will receive in the university. It's obvious by your intransparency, in our transparency, it's a different view of the budget, but there's only 2.3 left on the one where you can't see anything. But very interestingly, at a rate of 4.2% growth and inflation of 2 and a half percent could be performed wonders, and at a rate of 4% inflation of 3%, nothing can be done and when it is intended to refute the growth of the state budget's revenues by 10 months this year of 7 and a half percent, it is said that this is the consequence of inflation and the consequence of economic growth, and when income growth was 5 and a half percent, it was not the result of economic growth of 4 and something else, and inflation of 2 and a half. So, very similar conditions, only from different positions we comment on them, but what I would like to especially emphasise is that it is long and its record in the budget. You have this year clearly and transparently shown in the state budget that the state will be in debt for 14 billion and 100 million, 11 billion and 300 million will be used to pay off old debts, and somewhere less than 2 billion and 800 will be used to cover deficits and above all Croatian highways. But when you look at 2005 then you will see that the state is in debt exactly in the amount that was public, in fact, what was the deficit of 4.2%, but when you look at 2000, then you will see that the public debt has grown, but less for the revenue from the privatisation of the Croatian Post Bank of 2 billion and only a little, 2 billion and 300 million used to cover the deficit. In 2001, slightly less than 5 billion kunas of privatisation, the second phase of HT privatisation was covered by the 2001 budget deficit. In 2003, the deficit covered itself with the privatisation incomes of INA. So the deficit can only be financed in two ways. One is the sale of assets and the other is the new borrowing and that is the growth of the debt of the state. Whether the state will be in charge of domestic or foreign markets is a matter of the government's financial policy. This government came and saw, I did not once as an opposition representative know how to say behind this pay phone that our financial market reminded me irresistibly of a waterless well. And you see, this government gave this beautiful guide water and today the financial market in Croatia works. And we can't say that today's financial market is not active and that it can't happen by any chance what happened three years ago when shares of Zagreb's bank were withdrawn from the Zagreb Stock Exchange that almost the financial market had died. As for the debt of the pensioners and the budget. Well, look, there's a pension fund law being passed in this House of the High. The fund was established under the applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia will transfer within the property from which it will repay the debt to the pensioners. And I don't see how that could go through the budget at all. How and in what way. This means that 7% of the shares that we have transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund were to go through the budget, that 7% of the shares that we have transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund from the INA because this is defined by law. Therefore, here in this House of the High has been passed a law based on which to repay the debt to the pensioners. And now we can say it one way or another. However, this government had the courage to say at some point that 14 billion kunas of debt would pay back and this model would pay back. And about whether it's good or bad, you'll normally claim it's bad because you didn't have the courage to do it. Health debt. Look, you've got health contracts signed up to 182 days and that's what they are. the ariers which are at a given time if they are not paid then must be recorded and reported as such. It's not true that at this point these Aryans are 2 billion. It's simply not true and I have to say it because of the Croatian public. They're far, far smaller. A billion and 100 million. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you left a billion and 300 million. The law on the financing of units of local self-government regional and regionally defined that the counties receive 9.4% of their participation in income tax in the name of taking over decentralised functions, among other things the part in health has been taken over. These funds need to be financed by county hospitals. Why county hospitals have come into debt like this is probably the result of what happens at the state level where healthcare is financed and this 760 million Madam Vice President is impossible to secure in the state budget because it is simply not financed by the state budget. And it is not good to say for the sake of the Croatian public that it is not there. This should ensure the counties in their budgets because it is their obligation, they are legally required to do so and then they will show a deficit or something else. Or tell me we can't finance it anymore, let it go back to the state account, but look, you've passed the decentralisation Act, you've passed the Income Tax Act that's being transferred to finance this health care. So it was brought to your government. Now this procedure is just being continued. Those debts haven't been $760 million since last year. These debts are accumulated from the moment these commitments were transferred to the county and we have to say this as a real problem and talk about it as one problem that we need to see how to solve and solve at the state level and not talk about that there is nothing in the state budget that is not provided by law or by the obligation of the state budget for insurance. It's very interesting that with 16 billion kunas in the state budget you can't talk about development at all, but with 13 billion kunas you can do wonders. It's perpetum mobile but in upside down form. However, the exact indicators are exact indicators. So 16 billion is always more than 13 billion and probably 16 billion even with good governance can be done far more. 16 billion. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, you were talking about development. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm talking about 16 billion kuna for capital investments in this budget that serve as an incentive to develop on this or on that. So, it's very interesting when the facts are hidden, but it's my indicator, that I return to public debt. This is an indicator of the Croatian National Bank and the State Statistics Institute. Therefore, they are not indicators of either the Ministry of Finance or any government institution. And I repeat, the public debt of the state can only grow for the part that adopts this High House, which is in the financing account. The fact that we were fighting over the deficit in 2003 is whether it's 6.3 or something else look at how much the debt was, look at how much the funding from the privatisation revenue was, and you'll see that the deficit was even higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47950	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), Article 204 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Slavko Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47951	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of Minister Shucker, who said this year's debt will be 14 billion and 100. 14 billion and 100, one billion unpaid bills in Croatia, responsibility of the owner, ban on paying highways, Croatian roads and highways Rijeka-Zagreb... but a ban on the delivery of accounts by the performers and the debt of health care. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] And we will count on that, and then we will see the real debt of the Republic of Croatia in 2005. I doubt he'll stay at an estimate of 14 billion and 100.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47952	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47953	So I'll correct this part of the quote when the minister speaks about the deficit. He says the deficit will be 4.2% in 2005 and the deficit will be covered by privatisation revenues or loans. It is true that it is also covered by non-recognition of certain obligations. We see it right in the 2006 Draft Budget where the payment of the wheat loan is shown, which we neither had in 2004, nor in 2005 in the budget. There is also a debt hospital or loan taken in 2005, according to 2006. And about the debt of county hospitals and that should be covered by founders. If the founders managed, they could set the prices, then they could also cover the losses.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47954	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47955	Well, here's to this same Mrs. Zgrebec. However, it is impossible for the county to secure simply the funds in its debt-covering budgets or these financial dues to general hospitals. County budgets are respected gentlemen between 100 and 300 million kunas. There's almost no county hospital without at least 50 million kuna debt. Vice-President Pusic mentioned the Sibenik County case. 100 million kunas of the county budget, 100 million kunas of their general hospital debt. It just has to change urgently. That the county founders should simply change that. The General Hospital in Pula seems to have about 80 million kuna and 200 million kuna is the county budget. The General Hospital has a thousand hundred employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47956	Thank you. Don't argue. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the honourable representative of the Korenika. You can't argue under an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's incorrect, Mr. Minister, that the county can pay the debts of hospitals. Just remember that at the beginning of this year you reached agreements with the unions, you raised wages, but they did not pay the salary increase properly in hospitals. According to this, the Varazdin County also has... /The speaker has been excluded./... in special hospitals only about 30% of patients from the local county are treated. So what will the poor Varazdin County pay for the losses for everyone else and the government and institutions next to it... /The speaker has been excluded./... Someone's kidding again, but I can see he's not responding to everything. So it's incorrect. Countys can go straight to bankruptcy if you will determine the heights of wages and everything else, and the county will cover the losses... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47958	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47959	So I'd just keep this story going around county hospitals. So the county does not enter into a collective agreement, does not negotiate the price and does not negotiate the price of services between hospitals and HZZO. And if services or hospital costs are to be paid, then they should be paid out of decentralised funds. Therefore, if there is a long hospital, it is obvious that there is then it is necessary to increase the Fund for, for alignment and from the Compensation Fund to enable the counties to pay those debts that these hospitals have because the state has concluded contracts with HZZO on their behalf, with drug suppliers and has formed the prices of this. And some county hospitals can't even provide services because today 85 pediatricians are missing in Croatia, so they can't provide, for example, a pediatric protection service for children in their area.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47960	Thank you. It's the IDS Club's turn. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47961	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. The 23.11.2003 elections were held. HDZ won 9 out of 10 electoral units, and was defeated in that eighth Istrian-Rječka. And all the time since the constitution of the new government, I've been trying to be as correct as possible, not demeaning what this government has done well. Although I've never deprived myself of it, I rarely have to admit it. Because what seems good will not only be good for the ruling HDZ coalition, HSLS, HSU, I do not know the SDSS, but for everyone, but for all Croatian citizens. However, this budget is not good for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Not good for all parts of the Republic of Croatia. This budget is dangerously shared by Croatia. This budget divides Croatia into environments that support the central government and those environments that oppose it. Those who support central government can hope to monitor some of their investments. Those environments that do not support the central government will be cut off by that same government. However, the government cannot thus share its citizens or subjects as dearly to whom it pleases. It must be fair in moments when it has 105.9 billion kuna of those 128 billion kuna and some public spending, the City of Zagreb 600 local self-government and so on. If a Croatian space is punished because some MPs will not vote for this Budget, then it is Istria. Consciously, deliberately punished with 27.2 million kuna from the Budget. That's where I claim to be punished. Right, there will be some 10 to 15 million kunas from the Croatian roads or Croatian waters, but it cannot be read from one of these non-transparent budgets. It is good that the funds of these Croatian roads are now added to the budget by Croatian highways. It's those 6.5 billion kunas, but none of us know what those six and a half billion kunas will be spent on. Especially at the Croatian Roads. True, someone could, I don't know, draw funds for Y right now, but let's not forget that this concession was locked in front of Miterand and Tudjman in 1996 in Paris. Whether it's a good job or a bad job for Croatia on another occasion, but on the other hand, what's probably bad is that the Istrians pay 3.4 times more expensive tunnels, bridges that look more like a hack than they do elsewhere in Croatia. Why am I saying that? I also speak because the prime minister mentioned 12 or 13 capital investments for this speaker but did not mention any of that road in Istria. Besides, I'm saying that, and because you can't say, vote for the budget, you'll get it. You won't vote for the budget, I won't give it to you. But citizens, I don't know, let's say Istria and HDZ and SDP and pensioners and IDS and those who don't go to elections in the Croatian Budget on average are 2 to 3 times more inputs than the Croatian average. And it must not be ignored because it turns out that this government, which, unlike Tudjman's, understands Istria unlike Tudjman's who couldn't return from the budget, this government doesn't make out of the budget what it gets into the budget for those spaces. And so the only way out is decentralisation. This degree of centralisation, the distribution of these budgets is nakarad. He's unnatural. He's not fair. He's unfair. This store "vote for profit, vote against not to give you" turns budgetary policy into a large pub or as Mr. Mlinaric mentioned earlier by the Sabbath market or something like that. I don't want to talk about decentralisation and Istria or the Primorsko-Goran County getting 92.2 million kuna. I will discuss this in my individual discussion, but the budget of the gentlemen is not a tavern. It wasn't done last year. For example, I do not believe that for example, 750 million kunas as I read in the morning will be directed into these ossuary dikes on Drava because it would undermine the budget of Croatian waters. But once again, gentlemen, this is not how this country can be run. It's the first budget jam. So this political will to direct money at the discretion of 15 or 20 people from the government. Secondly, 15 or 20 people in the government have absolute control over 105.9 billion kuna, and if you add it to public enterprises, INA, Croatian Forests, HEP and so on, those 3 billion kunas to pay back, then simply power is terrifying. If this happens tomorrow, gentlemen of Parliament and Croatian Radio and Television, and I claim that the attempt to create parliamentary television is primarily a concentration of all power in the government because who will pay for this cable TV Croatian democracy 100% is actually about the role of 15 or 20 people who will be in the government at some point. I, there's no need not to compliment, let's say a 6% deficit reduction from 2003 to 3.4% in 2006. I'll also commend that it won't stop building infrastructure. First of all, roadside. I'll commend that in 2006 there will be no social earthquakes. You see, it's such a budget, but one of the biggest objections to this budget is imperviousness. Ms. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Martina Dalic, in one of his last interviews, read from the Budget, says budget sizes are based on 5 thousand 400 jobs that should be more than in 2006. If that's the case, and it's coming out of you, out of those budgets of her interview, she's another man at the Ministry of Finance, it's a disaster. Let's finish with only 5 thousand 400 jobs in 2006 more than we had in 2005. Well, only in Istria will there be half as many new employees. I'm not talking about foreign debt inland that's increased from 34.7 to 53.8 billion, short-term debt from 8 to 15 and so on. Clearly, therefore, social peace will be maintained. We can alchemize, include tourism in exports, the gray economy in the gross social product, but only numbers can be something nicer, but because of that, right, Mrs. Opačić, citizens will not be better, nor can they live easier. Therefore, after agreeing with us about Europe, The Hague, rehabilitation of minorities, etc., the opposition and positions clearly do not support the budget because it is a policy over policies. We should agree on two things, on employment and on pension policy when we say about health care, as was just a moment ago, we cannot agree. There you go, for example. About the pensions, we agreed to pay back the debt in principle. Now, as this maneuver will be performed, by selling INA and HT, you see. 6.8 billion kuna will return, but in the absence of the so-called. Swiss formulas in the budget in 10 years save 25 billion kuna, which will say that pensioners themselves are paying back their debt. About the gap between the old ones and these new pensioners who will only escalate after returning 50% of the debt to the old pensioners in the rules. Otherwise, the old pensioners have an average pension of about 950 kuna, a new one of a thousand 450, and those who retire today are going to a thousand and 250 kuna. But it's all about employment. And this government plans the next year to end with five thousand 400 jobs more than it leaves at the end of 2005. So the point is, 1.37 workers, one pensioner, if we refuse those on budget 1:1. How much are we going to get from 15% of INA? It's about 3 billion kuna, that'll be enough for two wars of pensioners. But this country owes $11 billion to get 10.5 billion right away. We're selling another stake in a thousand 16 companies plus this HT, which will say that the privatisation is intended to generate 4.8 billion kuna. Croatia is leaving for us on the drum, and there is no direct foreign investment. But either the capital will come to Croatia or the Croats will go after the capital. So let's say some peasant can't sell to a stranger 500 square meters of his country, but the state can bank. That peasant can't sell 500 square feet of his country, but the state can sell it to the INA. He can't sell 500 squares but the state can sell HEP. And then who's crazy about it? Let's let this man do what he wants with his own, and then let the state do what they want, and then we'll just let him sell the banks, HEP, INA, and so on. That would be politics, then. However, the absurdity of absurdities is 105.9 billion kuna, which is the "note bene" of every policy and policy, I do not know the development and return of the Serbian population and minority rights and health standards and regional development and the approximation of the European Union and the promotion of shipbuilding, etc., and that it is adopted by the ordinary majority on the other hand. It is a shame, not to call this House, but to the former if we know on the other hand that, let's say, one of the 390 residents of Lanisce must adopt the budget by a qualified majority. I said, in some interview that I won't talk about... But this is the political budget, this is the budget primarily of HDZ and their coalition partners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Until yesterday, I was saying that early elections would be stupid to be harmful to the country. Today I don't think they'd be useful, for God's sake, they wouldn't be harmful anymore. And finally, the budget of that 105.9 billion kuna is absolutely feasible, absolutely feasible. Is that it buys social peace, that everything goes into consumption, but social earthquakes will certainly not be next year and I confess what Minister Schuker points out with 16 billion kunas in 2006 could be done at least as much as possible in 2002. Tax revenues will be higher by 5.9%, which is realistic because by intensity the gross social product will grow by 4%, nothing should work, but it will grow so much. Income from 80 billion kuna in 2003 increased to 98 billion kuna or by as much as 18 billion kuna. The expenditures from 92.8 billion from 2003 to 105.9 billion kuna or for 13 billion kuna deficits from 11.8 billion in 2003 to 7.2 billion kuna, which is absolutely positive, that should be pointed out. So it should probably be handled at these times if and the debt, the debt returns to pensioners who are not clearly included in the deficit or this budget with a budget that is under quotes "severe" 109 to 110 billion kuna or 2006. 30 billion kunas more than 2003. Finally, it mostly goes into consumption, health care will have a terrible limb, subsidies to the economy, shipbuilding is less. The minister knows he's going to miss about 260 million kuna in 2006 and that there will be earthquakes here. The child's allowance is not really increasing, the unemployed will remain unemployed, the expenditure for the judiciary is what it is, Istria is treated as if it isn't in Croatia. The new pensioners will be and will be suspended in the future. Everyone trades so that perhaps the best name of government and parliament would be government, Parliament d.o.o. or d.b.o., a society without responsibility. But Croatia, I will say again, will not have an earthquake. However, the minimum consensus that should be reached should be on employment and pension as regards the compliance of these old and new pensioners. And lastly, the budget is the par excelence policy. But what offends me most is the store. I'll give you a budget vote. You won't vote for the budget. I won't give it to you. It's not like it's the money of all Croatian citizens on the other hand. I'm going to say once again, the budget can't be a pub, or at least it shouldn't actually be a pub and it shouldn't be represented. It is good for all citizens of this country regardless of the political colors because they all stand out for these purposes and should treat Croatians as such, as I said before the citizens, or if someone prefers it to their subjects. I don't know what he's trying to convince me of, but I'm sure it's not a good practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47962	Thank you. We have a 10, 11 correction of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47963	It is not true that fellow Caine will be punished only by this budget by Istria. We will all be punished, all citizens of Croatia, especially citizens of our islands, residents of our islands. I wonder how else to explain that compared to last year's budget...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47964	Dear Representative Jurjevic, you have corrected the incorrect assumption that Istra will not be cut off but also the islands. But you can't argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47965	Well, I'd like to confirm that you don't think I'm lying. I want to read the numbers. So why do I claim that the island's inhabitants will be punished? Because their money is being reduced by 60 million kuna compared to last year's budget on the items "Island Development and Development of Adriatic Islands". So, my dear islanders, 60 million kunas less you'll get. That's why I'm saying they'll be punished too, Mr. Caine, not just Istrani.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47966	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47967	Thank you. In fact, the esteemed representative Cain has said so much mostly incorrectly that it is impossible to correct it all, but from him it is nothing unusual. So, I would limit myself that this budget divides Croatia into those who will vote for or, therefore, not on..., this is a politic budget, this is a budget that takes care of all social categories of development society, so this is one of the best budgets that we have ever had in this House. On the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I have not heard a single remark, so those you're talking about should be endangered, and we see by other counties, let's say, you have to take analytically with a claim that let the county get more, let's say less. If he doesn't have a worse structure, it makes sense that he gets more.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47968	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47969	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain who said: "the grey economy should be included in the gross domestic product". No, that's the income of the state budget. Annually, Mr. Hebrang and I have said it several times. The state budget loses 11 to 15 billion kuna annually due to the grey economy. The state needs to create mechanisms to pick it up plus that part of our confiscation of illegally acquired assets through conversion and privatisation, easily fill the budget, we have for developmental parts. So you unwittingly gave the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47970	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47971	I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. First of all, 15 people control the budget, that's not true. 15 people propose a budget, the Parliament accepts it, is controlled by all the users of the budget, and that's very good. Another incorrect assumption is that this budget is definitely not unnatural. He's, by the way, advanced. And the law on anti-natural tendencies isn't in the process yet, so maybe Mr. Cain mixed some papers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47972	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's already been said, but once again. It is incorrect that the proposal for this budget is the most severed of Istria. I must say that Varazdinska and Međimurje County are even more deprived of how projects funded by this budget, especially the Varazdin County and by the financial assistance that goes to regional self-government units are as we have already heard, and neither is the smallest county nor has the smallest number of inhabitants, and, by the way, 30% are in the Varazdin County of average wages lower than in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47974	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47975	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In a series of incorrect allegations and insults in the recognizable style of our colleague Caine, I will correct it so that people from the government, by their own will, 15 bring budgets, harrazzi, etc. all the hard words that have been said. On the basis of the Croatian Constitution, Article 112 suggests that the Croatian Government proposes to the Croatian Parliament which brings it in, and this budget was given to the Istrian County by 156 million 348 thousand kuna in the first nine months of 2005 based on the programme of the Ministrys of Budget users, using the even development of the Republic of Croatia. Istria County 111 million, and in three years municipalities and cities of Istria County 383 million and 770 thousand kuna. So much for Mr. Cain's allegations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47976	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote...... You write there, you wave a little and you write so I don't know if... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47977	This Regulation shall enter
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47978	What article? Excuse me, what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47979	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47980	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47981	You, Mr. Vice President, share your representatives on those who vote for the budget so that they can say whatever they want and those who don't support it and don't get the word. This decentralised thing has absolutely nothing to do with it because all the cities in Croatia get it not only...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47982	Where did I hurt Article 214 of the Honorable Representative Caine? It's not about any damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47983	It's working, it's working.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47984	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Cain said like this: those environments that do not support this power will be cut off. That's incorrect. counterpart Cain in Sisak-Moslavina County unfortunately HDZ is no longer in power, but this government finally invests in Sisak and Zagreb highways, finally. He finishes his education facilities, two important facilities in health care and social care, invests in the modernisation of the railway, the reconstruction of Sisak-Zagreb, which is visible from the reasoning of the budget and continues at the same pace following the development of water supply in our area, so much so that he does not invest in those areas where HDZ is not in power, but is invested where it is more necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47986	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47987	Thank you, Mr. President, so my correction is similar to my colleagues and colleagues who have already corrected Mr. Cain. It is one of his incorrect claims, the wrong claim that this Government of the Republic of Croatia is implementing a policy of unbalanced development of the Republic of Croatia and that it favours those environments where it has support. That's just not true. We have witnessed in the last year, year and a half, meetings of our prime minister and government members with Mr. Bandic when it comes to the city projects of the City of Zagreb, with Cacic when it comes to the Varazdin County, when it comes to Istria then with Mr. Jakovčić, so all the compliments in this direction were coming, so I am surprised to hear Mr. Kajin's performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47988	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47989	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I must correct the incorrect quote of Mr Cain who stated this: This budget shares the Republic of Croatia with those who support the government and those who do not support it. Now, colleague Cain, out of a number of incorrect statements, this is certainly a statement with the greatest weight, and unfortunately, you are in great error when you claim it. The funds in the budget of the Republic of Croatia shall be allocated in accordance with the laws of this State which have regulated how certain activities are financed, as well as local self-government units. The distribution of funds in the state budget was proposed by this government, but all other governments did. However, the government's proposal does not mean that such a budget will be accepted. The budget determines and brings the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47990	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47991	Mr. Vice President, counterpart Cain said in one part of his statement that the government predicted the opening of 5,000 jobs for the next year. A colleague of Cain's, not for next year, refers to the government's three-year government, because by 4.8.2005, he was in the strength of the employment programmes resulting from the work of the coalition government, whose programmes employ nearly 80,000 new jobs in three-and-a-half years, so 80,000 new jobs were opened. Look at that. It's written in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47992	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the Club of HSLS, DC and LS, the Honorable Vice-President of the House, Đurđa Adlešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47993	Thank you very much, fellow Vice President. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I suppose now is the time for the debate to rest a little while while this is the usual debate during the budget. In fact, each government has so far claimed that the budget is both developmental and social, and each opposition has always sought reasons or ways to prove that it is neither developmental nor social. And often it happens before the budget gets to the bench, which I have to admit is fascinating. I'll try with as little demagogy and as many arguments as possible. If I don't get it any time, I hope you don't mind. And this budget is 10 billion kunas larger than this year. So the trend of its growth continues, which can be good. Each government, therefore, claims that it has been developed, to ensure stability in the financing of all government commitments. And I'm going to try to warn you of some shortcomings that I think I can fix, any amendments, any amendments on certain items, and for some I'm going to suggest models how to fix these shortcomings. I'm sorry there's no funding in the Alimentary Fund this year either. We warned about the Alimentary Fund at both higher and higher in the current government. I guess we weren't successful enough. However, although the Fund does not have this, it does not mean that funds cannot be provided for the temporary alimony of children whose parents do not comply with the legal obligation of abstention. It is far more important to find these funds than to set up the Fund itself, although it would be quite clear through that Fund how and from where it is financed. I believe that it is possible to achieve or at least mitigate this lack of change by law. I will remind you of the proposal for the Alimentation Fund and the opposition objections that said it was just another fund more, that we warned if the rule of law worked and if the judiciary were really standing on firm feet, that this would then be reduced to a minimum because a parent who, in fact, in an attempt to avenge his ex-marriage to holy children, would be legally eligible for prison, 3 to 6 months. And they would certainly have paid for it, and they would have fulfilled such obligations. Of course, there are also obligations of the Social Care Centre. I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister specifically here, to ask the Social Care Centre to educate parents because many don't know their right to collect and don't know what the funds are. It is, therefore, possible at least to patch it up in this way. I'm worried about what's missing 100% of the realizations in some items. Savings can be good, but not on all items. So we don't hold that it's good to keep the funds provided for military equipment unconsumed. Especially when we know what the situation is in that area. I also believe it is not good that neither the funds are spent for overtime at the Ministry of the Interior. I will remind you that for years, both the past and the current government, the union has warned of the obligation to pay overtime. I'll remind you that there have been such situations when you were afraid of whether the verdicts would block the Home Office's accounts. Well, it's far more practical, if you want to pay more wisely and spend those resources than fear. Sooner or later he'll have to do it. In the same Ministry of Interior for Communication Equipment, only 18.6% were spent and 49.14% were used for equipment and maintenance and protection. I'm not going to talk about the safety of citizens right now, but there are estimates different, so the funds exist. It just needs to be spent. If we have to save already, and we're not a country that likes to spend on the military and the police, then we should reach out to funds that can be opened for that purpose. From the CARDS program to the PHAR program. So I suggest that the minister try to realise these demands from those two programs as well. Otherwise, there are other items where the funds are not spent, so you should see what happens to the users of the budget, that the funds are not spent. And it's hard to believe that the goal was achieved, and the funds remained. I'm going to say a few more thoughts that I think I can be useful with structural indicators of the budget. The revenue side sees the retention of equal shares of tax and non-taxable incomes as well as the unchanged structure of the tax revenues themselves. A slight deviation is just the fact that the planned income based on the profit tax next year is 98.5 of those planned for this year. This deviation is explained by the sentence, "Because of the specificities that are present in 2005, even though they are not clarified. This is particularly surprising if it takes into account the indication that income on the basis of profit tax is growing faster than other tax revenues in recent years. On the other hand, property taxes remain at the same level as an almost negligible item in the structure of total tax revenues with an increase of 6% compared to the plan for this year as approximately planned growth and other tax revenues. The property tax remains a source of budget revenues. This is particularly worrying whether it takes account of significant fiscal burdens in this area to move towards a fairer distribution of tax burdens. Thus, property owners of huge values have been spared the proper coverage of scissors tax and do not contribute to the financing of common needs in accordance with their strength. I mean, I don't think it's a shame to have and be rich, but of course there must be adequate tax mechanisms. This fact is so much more devastating whether it is aware that a significant part of the capital value facilities are not in the function of economic activity which should be detimised by progressive tax rates. The drop in income from income tax in the past period resulting from a reduction in the tax burden on wages, it is welcome as a measure to reduce labour prices. However, the final effect of the process remains questionable in view of the fact that a multiple burden on the overall labour price is a contribution to social security, which is still a third of the budget revenues planned for growth of 6.8. At the expense, we see that staff expenditures actually decrease, do not decrease anywhere except at the Ministry of Defence, even though reform processes are declared in other ministries. This, of course, is not an invitation to reduce wages in the public sector because we know that such attempts did not give a good result, but rather a requirement for greater efficiency that can be obtained if employees are adequately rewarded, but of course are in line with the needs. The trend to cut funds for the defence ministry's needs has been halted. I believe that we will agree that this is good because the funds are planned I am afraid and so insufficient to modernise the military components necessary to create a modern armed force, if we keep in mind that our goal is to join NATO alliance. The expenditure on subsidies stabilised at an amount of €5.3 billion is the next position in which the government's efforts and results in an effort to restructure companies in the public sector should be expressed as early as possible. Well, this is what it looks like in that model to everyone a little bit, and no one's got enough. I just want to say a few more remarks to the Ministry of Health and Social Services. I mean, some of the items I'm holding out so small shifts can give good results. In fact, we need to see what's going on with the funds that are set up to fight HIV. I believe that they should be increased, especially for education for programme performers and the monitoring working group and for secondary school education, also funds for the programme of action for young people, conservation programme and improvement of reproductive health and prevention, and early detection of breast cancer. You will see that small funds are also provided for secondary prevention of alcoholism especially for young people. I would like to warn or ask, but first of all, I would like to warn you of an unsatisfactory amount of wages during mandatory maternity leave, so I propose to the Government that the amendment fix this amount so that it does not happen that, after the first half of the year, problems arise when these fees are paid on a regular basis. I will not judge whether the budget is developmental or social, but at the end of the year it is measured anyway, and at the end of each government's mandate we will support the budget, and I sincerely hope that the government will move peacefully into these serious and difficult reforms next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47994	Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of the SDSS Club, distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47995	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It started out about like in this glass of water a mess, but as you can see, it was quiet as if there was no storm. It's obviously saying something about this budget, about our relationship with it and, of course, the character of our relationship to the budget itself. The next cab driver asked me to tell you I see they got the pensioners, the defenders, Djapic got it, did you get something, is there anyone else somewhere else that he got something, so I can throw the hook there, so I can try to get something out? Of course I couldn't say that in the class we were privileged, because those funds that are allocated to minorities are truly symbolic and free to say and regular and are neither a matter nor a matter of purchase, nor in that sense should be a matter of purchase. I don't believe that's the case with the pensioners, and as far as the others mentioned are concerned, I'm not sure. As far as the general budget is concerned, how structured is all the objections that come to the side with regard to development or underdevelopment given the basic concept of this budget or better to say the idea of this budget is to shut up as long as possible and this is according to my understanding of the basic idea and the basic meaning of budgetary logic that motivated this government and probably the present minister here or the inconspicuous prime minister here. How long it will be and what it will be afterwards can be seen from the part of the debate, and it may also, of course, endure so long as it is held until the first opportunity to restructure or to the first opportunity for fresh money. Of course that move is risky, of course that move can open many more holes than we have right now, but the government has decided on such a move. Reliable to the fact that the inflow of money from European funds on the one hand, on the other hand, by foreign investments will allow some kind of reform to begin, but if we were to seriously ask the Minister and the Prime Minister whether this budget actually created assumptions for the difficult and serious reforms that should be made, which is a reduction of general spending, it is a question of health reform, it is a question of pension and social security, of course not. Is this budget making assumptions that we can have more jobs, if it brings any of this spending that is envisaged, probably yes, but as counterpart Cain here said, certainly not nearly as much as we should have in this regard. And if we have something to express dissatisfaction with in this regard, and we and all of us sitting here when we're talking about it is actually that we have another budget, possibly that the representatives of the former government can say that they too had the elements of such a budget that they had to put into bottomless holes, and that people are not and can't be satisfied with the health service, because it's not only growing but actually falling its value, and the costs in the budget are increasing. The resolution of one category of pensioners certainly does not solve another category of pensioners. Those who will be retired for them tomorrow will not only not only mean anything to them but actually think of them as some kind of discrimination. In this sense, this budget is so conceived is indeed a budget, if I can understand from a runner who wants to run with as much weight as possible along the track as possible, then try to do what can be done afterwards. And on the other hand, each of us is more or less likely to question what to do with a budget like this? The fact that after a tumultuous start we have actually a bonacu in the debate over this budget, it certainly indicates one such state of thought and consciousness in virtually every one of us, although I must admit that what we have heard from individual colleagues, above all from my colleague Opačić, regardless of the replicas that have been deserved in at least one sense of the words of rhetoric and speechful enthusiasm, is certainly sincere commendation, and as regards the items which I am particularly interested in and which I have spoken here is the question of the subjugation of the units of local self-government with this budget still not resolved. It is not solved because it does not give up on the logic adopted, which is that the main sources, the main sources, the original sources of income units of local self-government are income taxes and possibly what units of local self-government can collect themselves and then we get one paradoxical situation that actually, Mr. Ministers, through direct donations to citizens on different grounds, provides more citizens in areas of certain municipalities than it does to municipalities themselves, and the municipalities make it actually impossible to collect elementary communals and basic costs for water, for electricity, for municipal activities, etc. Because the state discriminates on a part of its municipalities, and that's something that absolutely has to change. If we were to look at certain items, if you were to talk to certain community chiefs, then you could simply conclude that in many of these municipalities people simply cannot collect communals, cannot charge electricity, cannot charge water, cannot charge any fees that are there, and on the other hand, the state provides money for them to pay for it, and for this reason this budget as well as the previous budget and which were necessary to change from our point of view. If local self-government needs to be strengthened, then we do not strengthen the fact that we have the country's caritative and social activity directly towards its citizens, but we do have it according to development programmes and towards strengthening the budget of the municipalities. As far as development programmes are concerned, we can say from the special state concern of the environments in which we have returnees of Croatia, settlers, settlers from different parts of Croatia or the former Yugoslavia returnees of Serbia this year that the total amount of funding for development programmes is higher on different grounds, whether funds or ministries. But this still does not guarantee Mr. Minister that these funds, that these funds will be spent in a valid manner, will be available to these people and because there is not one kind of central government fund that would actually provide development programmes, development projects in these environments or in these areas. Until this is done, until these areas become areas of special state interest, in the right sense, that word so far will be roughly in the situation in which the donations directly towards the citizens are actually found. They'll be intervening. And in some environments they can bring results but by nature their spending will actually be in this respect intervention. For this reason we propose to you or to the Government that as soon as possible it is actually forming a fund that will be a fund for the development of these areas from today's special state care, tomorrow I hope for a special state interest precisely because it shows that this kind of dispersed means, even if they are enriched with the funds that will come from the European Union do not guarantee that these environments can be sufficiently and necessary dynamically coordinated with the developments of other parts of the Republic of Croatia. As for last year's spending of funds, it is a pity that 44 million kunas intended for the housing of former tenant rights holders were not spent or spent. And at the same time, we have several refugee centres that we pay, I don't know how many months, and that way we actually have a double cost. On the one hand, we haven't solved one problem, and on the other hand, we have the cost of not solving this problem, and I think it would be extremely significant. I'm not talking about political damage and international damage. Let's leave them for some other places and some other opportunities. I'm simply talking about a dimension of rational approach to the budget and serious concern for a problem that we have in society in this respect that affects thousands of people. And so much, Mr. Minister, would plead that budget funds, especially for that part of the sensitive population, would be spent with increased supervision. To this day, as has been said from the Committee on Human Rights, we have no real idea how to manage funds from the Fund, the Republic Fund "King Zvonimir" which has never been less than 180, 190, 200 million kuna. We don't know if this fund has a board of directors or not. He sends his fees directly to the Treasury and not to the competent minister and the ministry within which we, with full right, can ask what these money is spent on. I know they don't come to a part of who needs it. And I'm not sure if it's spent properly where it comes from or where it comes from. And in this respect, indeed, in a total amount of 109 or 105 billion kuna, that money is not big, but it shows that if we don't have the proper control to close all the holes then let it last until it doesn't work, Mr. Minister. And we therefore propose that this fund as well as other funds have stronger supervision and that the public, and of course the Government and above all this Parliament have mechanisms to monitor what the Government has defined and to opt for a quick race with logic to endure with clogged holes as long as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47996	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47997	Well, I would like to correct the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative of Pupovac, who is therefore saying that there are no sufficient resources for the decentralised funds or municipalities in areas of special state concern that are under-incentived by him and that there is not enough resources for the work of these municipalities. However, precisely in municipalities where the majority of all units of local self-government have received state support that has grown so logically, so that it is twice as large as in others and this support and these from income tax also remain,... remain with those units of local self-government until the number of employees there is increased and then they should be reduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I don't think it's true that these units of local self-government in areas of special state concern can't function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47998	Thank you. You have no right, this is a correction to an incorrect assumption. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, the esteemed representative Nikola Mak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u47999	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The National Minority Club has carefully examined the proposal for this budget, expressing its satisfaction that the Government adheres to agreements with representatives of national minorities on the means of cultural needs of national minority associations. We appreciate this respect for our legitimate cultural interests, and we will seek to share these funds fairly and fairly for the best programmes offered to the National Minority Council. In this regard, I note that there are cultural needs behind which members of more than 260 associations of national minorities who are intensively fostering the cultural heritage of 22 national minorities as recorded in the 2001 census. Smaller but therefore the most qualitative part of this cultural creation we had the opportunity to see a week ago in a major review program at the "Lissinski Fireslav" Concert Hall. It is important to note that the allocation of these funds is carried out by the minority representatives themselves, with prior consultations and talks with all applicants of programming requirements within a particular national minority and is also being verified and verified by reports of programmes achieved and spent. I assure you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, that this is an example of democratic distribution and a transparent review of the spending of taxpayers' funds. In addition to these cultural resources, we are not fully satisfied with the means of education of our young members both in pre-school and school institutions and in extra-school educational forms. In these forms, we have very serious objections and objections in the way of distribution of funds and control of their spending. Therefore, as a Club of National Minorities Representatives, we have taken serious and decisive steps in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to improve this situation and bring it closer to the methodology and distribution of controls as in the Council for National Minorities. Of course, there are other things we're not happy with. This refers to the real needs of national minorities within various resolution ministries and is usually about several capital facilities such as primary schools, school sports halls, social homes and rural infrastructure. As these needs are expressed above all in areas of special state concern in Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja County, we will argue that the competent ministries in cooperation with local and regional, regional self-government determine what is real in these requirements and that, in the context of the rebalancing period, the budget is calculated in 2006 or at the latest in 2007 for this. The second question we are not satisfied with is Roma housing and infrastructure problems. Many Roma families live in unworthy conditions both in larger and smaller Roma settlements and in certain urban enclaves. The Republic of Croatia has taken a major step towards resolving these problems through the adoption of the National Programme for Roma and the Decade Action Plan for Roma. The establishment of the government's Committee on Roma headed by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Jadranka Kosor, and the operationalisation of these plans and programmes in the Office for National Minorities. In addition, for the first time in 2006 the European Union will be involved in addressing Roma problems with its significant means, and this is more of a obligation for Croatia to speed up the resolution of these problems by means of means and policies. However, we believe that there is a lack of awareness and understanding equally in the relevant ministries and local and regional self-government that the Roma issue is of first-rate importance to Croatia and that its successful resolution makes Croatia a series of major breakthroughs. From its reputation to social peace and social progress, and most importantly to the full integration of Roma into Croatian society. Therefore, we will consistently advocate practical measures and steps to meet individual points of the Roma action plan each year at all levels of decision-making and accountability. And in conclusion, I believe that, as a whole, the draft budget confirms in practice the high constitutional principles and legal solutions on national minorities in Croatia and that is why we will support it. At the same time, we highlight the great role that national minorities have played in raising Croatia's reputation in the outside world, especially with our authentic testimony about Croatia as a democratic and civilised country in which the rights of national minorities are daily respected and achieved. And in the end, one wordological remark, Mr. Minister. In the budget, the section for the Council for National Minorities shall be referred to as the professional service of advice which, apart from what is incorrect, is already fully deplaced. So I ask that it be spelled correctly in the final text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48000	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48001	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, respected members of the government, well, wherever you are right now and which you have shown your real interest in discussing state finances in this House. In any case, we have before us the third budget proposed by this government. As usual, it is evaluated according to its characteristics and we have already heard and read how the terms are used it is developmental, social, balanced, balanced, pragmatic, unambitious and pre-election and transparent. And it's interesting to deal with these last two terms, is the budget pre-election and transparent? When we look at the way the budget is created and so is its ambition, then the most accurate name for this budget would actually be how opposition it is. This claim stems from the fact that the 2006 budget does not have any ambition or mechanisms that would affect the resolution of burning issues in Croatia called unemployment and the launch of production, strengthening exports and ensuring the necessary growth, the necessary growth rates of gross social product and even regional development. This results in the government not wanting to continue the necessary reforms but leaving all the accumulated problems to address those political options that will come to power in the next term. The numbering we have in front of us actually means that we want to hide the problems under the carpet and delay their resolution for another time, and it seems to be for some other governments. If, in this context, we also consider the fact that in all the countries of transition in Europe, the government that introduced those countries to Europe lost in the elections then this claim does not seem illogical even if it is absurd at first sight. This budget is actually by the name of the termological opposition. In the transparency of the budget, I would like to congratulate the Minister for being consistent with the former Government and continue to insist that all budget users must use one account and show their expenditure positions transparently. In this way, it is true that every citizen in Croatia has insight into state finances and can see what tax money is used for. However, this model is not perfect and its main drawback is that it does not allow the Minister of Finance to see budget revenues. First of all, I'm thinking about cash management and liquidity within the Treasury system. The money is still distributed by numerous accounts of business banks, and these funds are not participating in the money market because of their intransparency. As a result of such management, better put out of line the cash liquidity management of the State budget is also in an absurd situation. As a result of the lack of information, how much money is distributed to us in various bank accounts, we borrow from these same banks in the short term, and we actually borrow our own money, and for that we still pay too much interest. This means that the management of cash and liquidity of the state budget is actually in the hands of business banks. I recommend that the Minister also ensure transparency in cash management so that he can participate in the money market with current surpluses. We at the HSS Club advocate that budget policies also change the economic model that constantly leads to an increase in external and internal debt, does not address the issue of unemployment and does not address the issue of development. The fact is that we have a debt at the end of last year of over EUR 30 billion. We have allocated around EUR 3 billion to pay off the debt, while at the same time the growth of the social gross product has brought us only EUR 2 billion and EUR 100 million. The fact is that our coverage of imports is below 50% and that this situation will not change the proposal of the prime minister to which tourism should be granted export status because it is generally known that the tourist product is directly and indirectly with around 70%. The fact is, the figure of about 300 thousand unemployed hasn't changed. And he won't. And that the rate of development projected by this budget of around 4% is not enough for us to change the situation. We at the HSS Club believe that it should not be the sole objective of budgetary policy to take one and give the other. In doing so, we place the emphasis on capital transfers that are hopeless and are almost exclusively carried out in transport infrastructure and even for those projects, I mean, above all, the Peljesac bridge which is too expensive, uneconomic and does not meet the development needs of Croatia. It is high time to change the policy of capital investment in the area of infrastructure and move towards industry, towards agriculture and tourism, which will aim at achieving a minimum rate of development of 7% with a tendency of 10%, with sure the growth rate of industrial production should be between 10% and 15%. Support for this model cannot be expected from the banking system because it is not an interest in the growth of domestic production but in domestic consumption. As loans remain significantly more favourable to the population than the economy sector. In Croatia, GDP growth is based on imports and personal consumption of citizens, and too little on export-oriented and employment-oriented production. The existing production still does not satisfy domestic needs, let alone exports. So we do a little bit of manufacturing, we spend a lot of money, and especially the state, and we do it through our own options. We cover the difference by borrowing and selling out state property. This budget has no ambition to change the direction of movement because there is no money intended for it, and neither does the mechanisms, and I do not think of any political will. Obviously, by means of budgetary policy, and by means of a proposal and budget structure, the current Government does not even want to open a debate on the most intense topics. This is obviously a completely unambitious proposal and an inappropriate situation in which Croatia is most concerned about the financing of government interest groups. Since the debate on the most important topics the Government avoids when adopting the budget, we at the HSS Club will propose a conclusion that we will oblige the Government to introduce us at a special session of the Parliament to the real state of finance, thinking among other things about media speculation that Minister Schuker, however, has informally stated that the budget should have been higher by 16 billion kuna if we want to resolve all planned budgetary commitments. On the way to that conclusion, we must oblige the Government here in the Parliament to hold a special debate on development and employment. Unless the government does anything, let's do it ourselves. Let us give up unproductive debates such as these today with numerous replicas, corrections to incorrect allegations, and let us open those issues that are most interested in citizens who always ultimately pay an account for a failed and inefficient policy. Let us secure money for the teaching of reforms and the implementation of the development strategy above the expected growth rate of the social gross product in this 4% budget. Let's take control of the excessive external and internal debt, determine the rate of development between 6 and 8%. Let's create mechanisms that will start production... oriented, based on high-tech, knowledge and employment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let us change the excessive tax system and implement the promised reforms because this is the third year since the pre-election promises, Minister, and we have not even mentioned these tax reforms today during the debate on the most important financial document of the state. Let's force the efficiency of overpriced and inefficient administration, raise the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, try to reduce unemployment from 300 to 200 thousand. Through the growth of the economy, let us ensure that the old pensioners are returned within 2 years 100, not 50% of the debt, rather than to the new pensioners not to get peaceably less by 40%. By implementing agricultural policy when approaching the European Union, let us take care of those who can hardly adapt to such a policy that cannot be included in this race and live in the country, of course, it is difficult to assess which objective parameters and which restrictions are conditional on it. It is impossible to determine what is possible if we do not discuss it. In the HSS, we believe that it is high time to focus on these topics and we believe that the Croatian Parliament for this is competent, but also competent. The question arises whether we want to do what Croatian citizens expect if it is not already done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I hope that, and therefore, I expect that we will also accept the proposal of the Croatian Peasant Party's conclusion to launch a debate in Parliament on the most intense topics that I once again emphasise are called development and employment. I hope that we can reach a consensus about it. Perhaps the consensus can be expected from other stakeholders called entrepreneurs, called unions, pensioners and all others. But we really have to want it. We have numerous examples of countries that have similarly opened the debate, which have brought the best solutions and which have implemented them in practice. We've mentioned Ireland so many times here in the Parliament, so let's try to consider this Irish model. This is also possible in Croatia because Ireland and Croatia are actually compatible. So we have enough examples. The question arises whether or not we can do it. I'm sure we can. The question arises, in fact, whether or not we will. I hope that's what we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48002	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48003	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Pecek, where he claimed that today's accounts are scattered across various banks, that there is no control of budget filling, no inflow of funds and no expenditure side of the budget. On the contrary, it was your practice. That model was during your power. You've been acting like drunk billionaires all the time and making personal use of yourself or others. Today's control through the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance does not allow anyone without the arguments of transfer of funds and without justifiable reason to withdraw funds for just what is necessary. Such practice as you had the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia broke up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48004	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pecek incorrectly stated that the construction of the Peljesac Bridge, the mainland of Peljesac – Komarna does not represent the development needs of the Republic of Croatia, that it is uneconomy, that it does not actually need to be built. This is simply not true because the bridge expresses the development of the needs of southern Croatia, Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and in particular the Peljesac peninsula and its inhabitants and islands that gravity Peljesac. That bridge ensures the future and development of that end first and foremost. Secondly, I'm glad that masks fell and that finally HSS said that he kept the figurines in his pocket when he said that for the project of the Peljesac Bridge – Komarna which he boasted in the pre-election campaign, so let the citizens of the county see who held the figs in his pocket and who was behind which projects. We're going to achieve this project, unlike you who supported it in principle, and it's actually how you thought about it, you showed it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48006	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the same quote as my esteemed colleague Matušić, because my colleague, Pecek, claimed that the Peljesac Bridge is too expensive for land. It is not true that it is too expensive and that it is not a development project for what the Croatian state is ultimately getting. And it gets a lot. In terms of joining Croatia in the south into one whole, not to mention how much Pelješac peninsula and the island of Korčula and the Dubrovnik coast are getting. The area has been neglected so far and it is time for the Croatian state to care for the south of Croatia as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48008	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48009	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Pecek said there are no capital investments, that the Peljesac Bridge is not needed and that this government has no political will to improve Croatia. I would say that this is all false, that it is all incorrect, and I would like to say here that other MPs know, the president of the Croatian Peasant Party is the other day when the Ambassador of the European Union Degert praised Croatia, told him that he was sorry because the European Union has reduced the criteria for Croatia and that the Croatian Peasant Party has much greater criteria. So he didn't admit to the European Union's ambassador to commend Croatia either, so I see neither the MPs here now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48010	Okay. This other thing does not fall under an incorrect assumption. You were saying something that wasn't said here in the House and you didn't correct it, in one part you corrected the incorrect quote of the distinguished representative Pacek. I should give a warning to the now respected representative Zubovic if you have come forward for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48011	Mr. Vice President... Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Representative was talking about something that wasn't spoken in this assembly. [[You don't understand.]] Well, you can lie down with your shoulders all you want, but I think there's some kind of business obligation for the chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48012	I warned the MP in part two that he hadn't corrected the incorrect allegations. Let's move on. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Finance Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48013	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs so I thought that or not to react, but if someone in this booth said that the minister said that the budget should be 16 billion more and that only then could... I just have to say that's not true. [[You don't understand.]] I have never made such a statement, and I think it would be an extremely unserious and irresponsible statement, and also a normal thing that all budgetary users would always want more. And second of all, I don't think it's a good thing we're hitting on external debt. It's an exact indicator and he can't be a little bit like this, a little bit like that. It is at this point 29 billion dollars or slightly less than 25 billion euros or something, 82, 83% of gross domestic product and it is the external debt of the Republic of Croatia or who hides it or who wants to move it. But to say at this point in the budget debate that the external debt of the Republic of Croatia is 30 billion kuna is extremely unserious and then we are surprised when some World Bank surveyors come and put us in 116th place. Well, it's a normal thing to say in such a way that a debt like this or something else is based on nothing. Take the data of the Croatian National Bank, they are available, and that the Ministry of Finance is not controlling the daily incomes, gentlemen, this is daily information that has been done in this ministry for 15 months. You can see the daily income, you can see the comparison of the monthly income and you can see the comparison of the annual income. Listen to the State Treasury thing is a matter of political will, nothing else. You had a chance, I'm not saying that my former fellow Churchman didn't want to do it, it was never on my mind to say it, nor will I say it today. He wanted to do the same as any minister would want to do in this draft budget, and when I explained the budget, I said that since this year all revenues are in the state budget and most of the sub-account will be shut down after 1.1.2006. So the funds will be in one account and all these stories about what happened last year that it knew a few hundred million were on those hundreds of sub-accounts, while the state had to be in debt to pay the wages, I sincerely hope that with 1.1.2006 it will come to an end. And what I'd like to say, that wheat. Gentlemen, look at the financial plan of the stock supply, you'll see the revenue side, you'll see the expenditure side. Clear and transparent income from the sale of wheat, funds to repay the loan. It's clearly in your budget. Don't say now that this government is doing what you did, hiding some loans. That's what the budget says. What you want to skip is another pair of shoes. The third thing, Croatian railways and highways Zagreb-Rijeka are not an integral part of the consolidated budget. Croatian railways receive 2 billion and 800 million from the budget on the basis of the Parliament's decision. The state of these Croatian railways, how many unpaid bills are left, we can discuss this, but it is not correct when talking about the budget to mix Croatian railways and consolidated budgets. That is, if the Croatian Railways Administration has not paid the bills, so it is a company that is not consolidated into the state budget. He has a decision to allocate 2 billion and 800 million annually from the state budget. Also for the sake of the Croatian public, it should be said that the working ratio of Croatian railways was over 3% over a year and a half ago. It is 220% today and we hope that in 2006, it will be 190, and this working ratio means that on the kuna earned by Croatian railways 3 kunas and 30 needed to be paid out of the state budget to patch up the hole. Now, can that change without structural reforms? He can't. If structural reforms are not implemented, if only to be poured out of the state budget there will never be an end and for the sake of the truth, billions and 600 million more funds in the 2004 budget are significantly greater than the 60 limes foreseen by the Law on Croatian Railways. That's the 300 million difference. Zagreb-Rijeka highway, a company that has nothing to do with the budget. Nothing to do with the budget, but it is not good for the Croatian public to say when talking about the budget, to mention the Zagreb-Rijeka highway. However, what your colleague, Mr Linic, would like to tell you, you will see under what favourable conditions Zagreb-Rijeka highway will receive 210 million credits and that will be the best answer for you and all those who claim that Croatia is in recession. If Croatia is in recession, such low interest cannot be obtained from anyone or from the European Investment Bank, and that is the best indicator of what you are saying, and you will see in 15 days what that interest is. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48014	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48015	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I have not claimed that you do not manage incomes and have no information about these revenues. I'm just saying that for cash scattered by bank accounts you don't manage, because to manage that cash would be on the money market, not on bank accounts. So in the short term, you borrow money from banks despite the fact that your own money is there. Otherwise, if you want to convince me, show me how many times you've been on the money market with that cash, then you can convince all those citizens who, like me, think that would be the best way to manage budget money.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48016	Dear Representative Slavko Linic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48017	Mr. Minister said Croatian railways are not part of the state budget deficit and do not burden the deficit. Interestingly, Mr. Shuker gave a final report in 2003, then he took the Croatian Railways' duties into the state budget deficit. Therefore, it only shows how false and inaccuracies are in the statements of Mr. Minister, because when the score is 6.3 of the former government, then the debts of the railway that were orderly, and not the failure to pay the creditors were shown as a deficit of the state budget. But one more thing, the money from the state budget goes to the railway, obviously not enough and that is why the creditors will not get a billion kuna in this year for nearly 300 days and that is the problem of the Croatian Government and those who make decisions on behalf of the Croatian Government in the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48018	PGS, SBH and NDS representatives' club, respected representative William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48019	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, I don't know what status. ... Let me, I didn't say that at all, just curiously. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let us, with a few words from the Regional Party Club, refer to this year's Budget, the Budget Proposal. So, the adoption of the budget for next year coincides, not by chance, with St. Nicholas's and Santa's comings and all for a wide-ranging children's regiment, but not just a weather regiment. The Croatian budgets, as many governments have used us, are the very symbol of the role and purpose of the state. They repeat our fairy tale of the greater and better in the future, budget bags are full of millions and billions, though. It is the task of the state budget to ensure the best possible functioning of the state and society, which is best seen in the sums intended for each item. The truth of health care, for example, is contained in a sum intended for health care, but also in the structure that is intended for that health care, not in conveniently nice words and promises, was a resolute minister or prime minister. Let's remind ourselves that for more than two, almost three years the government has owed the Clinical Hospital Center Osijek 20 million kuna. It is a contractual obligation, and it is simply not paid, but in some budget projections it is foreseen in payment stages. That's not the way to do it. One clinical hospital that covers a million people simply has to get its own money from the contract and in this budget was finally an opportunity to get rid of it. Why? There's probably an answer. The same goes for school, social. The even distribution across all Croatian parts shows whether the budget is okay or the budget is wrong. On the contrary, political flirts stand, those relationships which then mark the budget as irrational, but equally and above all, by the lack of a principle of justice. When it comes to the truth, it should be noted that it is still opaque because the budget should actually be read as the truth. Our budget, therefore, is traditionally so cumbersomely complex that many items are seen in it, but not too much of their meaning. From the forest, the numbers of an unprofessional and uninformed eye are difficult to conclude in more detail. Isn't this document really a document of all citizens? If we want to exaggerate or be pretentious or ultimately want to actually want the truth about that budget itself. The ability to read it isn't just a college thing. It takes a lot of other knowledge and wonders, though, to know what it's all about. Often, only a few people know what some millions are really meant for. Take a look at the budget how many times, like some legality, it appears that famous sang syntagma other expenditures or intellectual services. And that's where the grudge lies. The budget is, of course, modernly said, non-transparent, or more old-fashioned, and perhaps still untransparent. The budget does not relate to reality and needs, to urgency and equality, but it does reflect a ball of political relations and interrelationship. There are short- and long-term "acts" in there, filling and neglecting, taking over every measure on one side, and that is, denying the other. Less strong and politically presentive. The budget, therefore, is almost well, if we were to be well-intentioned, a literary work. But it's not written to demonstrate itself as a literary work. So it shows the high creativity of using mathematics, but the fundamental state document which is tasked with responding to real needs and possibilities of the moment is not that. The word favors certain parties, I guess it can be said, to certain social groups, to certain areas, and once again, I will say, is that not in that sense the high constitutional principle, the principle of justice and the principle of balance. The budget is therefore the truth of Croatia, this and any other. But on the other hand, the budget has tens of billions of kuna to distribute, more precisely to approve this Parliament, which is the work of hundreds and thousands of civil servants, lobbyists and, of course, what else would be politicians. The budget clearly testifies to how the state summit decides really too much. Even very small things, about the everyday life of our citizens. And if the state wants to be honest, honest, fair, it doesn't always see the best. It would be far more efficient and certainly cheaper, if justice were not spoken of, if in construction and equipment, for example, the school decided by those who would see this school and in reality instead of those who here, it is unlikely, that they would ever see live even 10% of the investments we have approved. The simple question, it's too much, the expression is not only the problems that represent budgeting, but there are always problems. The expression is actually a possible development of our Croatia and it is then a question of what is really centralised or contrary to decentralisation, especially financial decentralisation, and what is it about regionalisation. I would like to add to that the question why would the regions not have at least one third of today's centralised and hypercentralised state budget. Look at the heresies, even a third of the money collected. Can it be considered that there are less wise, less responsible people in the Croatian regions, such as Slavonia and Baranja, less responsible people, less capable people who will know how to handle this money? And even despite the conflict between Glavas and HDZ and the current prime minister. I think there are enough wise people, enough responsible people, and that any conflict should not affect the event of adversities. The Croatian state budget is centralistic, perhaps even ultra-centralistic, and centralism has only two functions in the end. It's nothing new, but it's worth repeating. The government of bureaucracy and the fogging of money trails. So it's hard to discuss the budget that's been built to be a little bit and incontrovertible and that anyone who enters it knows that it's in a field full of mines of surprises. When Slavonac says that, he doesn't talk about mines by chance. But that's what we're talking about a moment later. But we continue to live, of course under quotes in "hope" that most of the money will indeed find its way to the end and necessary users and that the waste and loss will not be exaggerated, however, which is left over to us but faith, because other instruments of control are almost not. It could be talked about the necessary economic policy measures that would otherwise create a general economic framework, but it will be possible that some others should respond, it may be necessary to warn less about state interventions, it is possible to warn real developments, but it is impossible not to make it clear and loud that here these days is trying to send a strong message to Slavonia and Baranja that although this is not the story of the budget, something about the budget still turns out to be happening in its texts and thus sending a message, the story of the agreement between Đapić, Glavas, Sanader where it should be understood that it was agreed, so it is heard that the PC corridor is now suddenly looking at the deadline by 2005 to 2008. Well, that's how it was, nothing new is happening, but it's warning, please, that there's an epochal gain going on for Slavonia and Baranja, but they're not talking about Agro's Bank, which is in the HDZ Government's programme, I'm not going to mention pre-election promises, but it is in the HDZ Government's programme. My colleague Hebrang, who does not have a heart to stand for the matter, would sooner doubt that it is not good, if he advocates, but the absence of this "Agro" bank directly means that this agreement that has been spoken of did not actually have a deeper meaning and no amount exists in the budget for the possible opening of the "Agro" bank, reads and actually for the development of agriculture, at the very end of the line something to prepare Croatia, especially Slavonia and Baranja and its agriculture for the entry into the European Union. There is no budget or what we expected simply to be, and they have no agreement. How's the irrigation thing? Is that an alternative to gasification where we don't want that gasification to happen, but the question remains why is Slavonic and Baranja irrigation just one sour smile in the face of the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja? So it's about the space of a million inhabitants, the need for irrigation and one ridiculous amount, and I don't want to repeat it, because it's not about embarrassing someone, but it's about that item being changed and not happening on that project "pilot project" testing, testing, because last year it was supposed to be done or running as I would say, so there's not a single kuna from the intended item spent. So what is it? So this subject could have been the same, this subject could have been agreed on, but what is most important is the realisation of the agreement. Slavonia and Baranja need irrigation, Croatia dapace. There is no demining, ladies and gentlemen of some particular money. In fact, there is nothing more important than demining in certain areas in Slavonia and Baranja, in Kopačska rit, especially as a priority space, because it is a developmental space that tomorrow as a National Park, but perhaps once again the same society will agree that it remains a nature park, that hunters are charming, that something should not be developed, and there will be no money for demining, for priority demining. Mr. Shuker, Mr. Minister, I'm putting it on your mind, not because it looks effective, but honestly, at least in that part try to find the means that this pearl that represents an incredible basis for development and income is being demined and so let's leave that space for possible breakthroughs. And here is final, since Mr. President is shining, I hope that this is the last budget that will be freely said, but also honestly speaking, to settle political accounts, and perhaps to unearth the window, the door to that budget where the citizen, in which he will have his place, will have wonders and regions, let us not be ashamed of it, therefore also of Slavonia and Baranja, and let there be significant decentralisation in that budget, in particular financial decentralisation. I've now committed a major offense because I haven't let my colleague Pavlica speak, I've spent all my time, but I thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48020	You haven't had to finish yet, yet the lights, I'm not glowing, but you can do this. ... I hope I can say the same to you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction of an incorrect quote, only 5. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48021	Mr. President. So here's colleague Herman incorrectly states that the budget suits certain parties, neighborhoods, groups. I think that what's done from the budget or with budget funds that not only enjoy the parties, but enjoy all the residents, and it's hard that just one party except clearly here we heard... Is there one party that covers the complete end? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If he was referring to groups, then I guess he didn't mean the pensioners, the defenders, the births, because by law that budget was defined. Second, he says he's centralised. It's not true, and the example is says the government decides on a school they'll never see. Well, the government has to provide funds in the budget for construction, and I think the profession is designed, supervised and built.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48022	Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48023	The esteemed representative said this budget was a fairy tale. It's simply not true, because still Lord Kelvin said that where the numbers are there is true, and the fairy tale is expressed in written or oral form. He said that centralised centralism is going through this budget. Wrong, because let's just sum up how much money is intended for local administration and self-government, and on the even development of the Republic of Croatia this government has so far taken care of when Mr. Herman was in HSLS, then in Libra, then in Hrast, and in HNS, and even now when he's in the regional party.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48024	This last, distinguished representative of the Jarnjak, is not the correcting of the allegations, it is the gathering of parties in which he was a representative of Herman. ... Just picking up, but those pickings aren't corrections that's adding up. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48025	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who said about PC corridors nothing happens regardless of the agreement Djapic. Since Djapic Mayor's corridor started working, it's an important event. Thank you very much. Well, a month ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48026	Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48027	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting my colleague Herman's incorrect claim that the budget is not transparent, that it's full of hidden mines and deliberate blurry. On the contrary, I believe that for one who can read the budget he is very clear and easy to read all of his items. However, given the tone and the accent that I think was full of prejudice, it seems to me that my colleague Herman prepared the presentation before he even saw the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48028	It seems to be the moonlight. Dear Representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48029	I'd also correct an incorrect assumption. Mr. Herman said there are currently no projects he has brought to life in Slavonia and Baranja. I don't think that's true. The fact is that all the important projects envisaged by local county and city authorities in Osijek-Baranja County have been revived, some are in development process and I think they bring simply one better future to Slavonia. Unfortunately, the fact is that Mr. Herman has silenced or does not wish to admit that he was just part of the ruling coalition in the past term and for four years while he was the government of Slavonia has experienced such a decline and such a lag compared to the rest of Croatia that it will take a long time to achieve one equality in economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48030	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48031	I've done a lot less of this the way it turned out. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48032	What's a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48033	Well, this was just a common sense injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48034	Injury of common sense. Do you fellow Drmic report for this healthy mind injury or for what he said? For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48035	I'd like to take this. Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure has been broken. The gentleman answered and did not correct or report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure because he made one of his standard rude comments and once again boasted that he had been in politics for 14 years and stuck to the one "who does not do it wrong".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48036	Okay. Compliments don't change each other anymore. On behalf of the HSU Club, Honorable Representative Josip Sudec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48037	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm pleasantly surprised Mr. Secretary didn't mention today that the budget was developed and social. He said he was balanced. I'd say he's stabilized. So the question arises whether or not there is a development and whether there is a social component in it. So now that he doesn't say if he has or doesn't have it, it's our job to investigate it. I think that here is the determination to make certain adjustments that will bring us closer to the European Union and which we will carry out in the coming years of negotiations. Croatia has significantly higher tax revenues compared to other countries in the region, which warns of a high tax burden on citizens and businesses. The high tax burden slows down the investments needed to grow the economy. Therefore, periods from two years to the next parliamentary elections should result in a reduction in public expenditure, reform of the set state and tax system. The burden of public consumption should be allocated so that the richer they bear most of the tax in accordance with their assets and total revenues. Croatia has not so far had a negative movement but rather a crawling or disputing developmental movement. I'd say there's no sign of a recovery of the economy, especially export or economic incentives based on the quantity and quality of production. And for the term of office of this government, the responsibility that needs to be stabilised seems to be small shifts. The 2006 budget does not put its hands in the pocket of rich people and in favour of poor citizens. Taxation of the rich is only in minor traces and the general rate of tax on additional value does not burden the luxury but is distributed to total consumption. Retired people don't expect a miracle from this budget. We're too experienced and real. Still, we expected there to be a higher standard because it's a large part of the pensioner's so-called. a grey poverty zone, but also such state incentives in an economy that will result in a higher rate of employment growth, create new jobs for younger people, provide a way towards a higher standard for all citizens. I hold this goal to be deprived of any politicisation and to express and implement it professionally. The economic development in Croatia, which is financed from the budget, is now corrected by 16 billion kuna. If we want to achieve the planned growth of the 5% domestic product next year, we will need an additional 6 billion in the national budget for 2006 that we do not see from where. Income from an entire economy estimated at around 8. Today we heard a second number of 11 billion kunas, and that's how much we miss each year in the budget. It's hard to get to them because those who deal with the gray economy seem to be also dealing with black magic so skillfully to hide that it's hard to find and we haven't yet built a system to effectively reach and release the gray economy. In order for something more to be done on this plan, I believe that this taking or self-service in the 2006 budget will not result in certain shifts, so I propose to organise a way of targeted budgetary projects and to place them or behind them more material resources. This is how it's arranged for every little one and nobody else enough, and we're all finally dissatisfied. Debts and new borrowing did not trigger the deadened growth of domestic production or reduce large unemployment over the past few years. State bonds on the internal market were purchased or mainly bought from insurance companies or funds. Business banks only bought or bought about 30% of these government bonds. Social expenditures and allocations for pensioners in mass correspond to a certain increase in pensions in the following year not of 5% but of 2.5%. So, quite another bill. Because when we look at what that billion 500 and something million is allocated to, then you see that 900 million are needed for regular coordination, that about 350 is necessary for new pensioners, that the rest goes for defenders, maternity and other benefits. Therefore, there is no real increase in pensioner's standard of living. As far as health reform is concerned, I think it expects us very quickly because there is no one to cover the losses and that soon, it will be in this House for the debate on how to further reach in the pocket not only of the pensioners but of all the insurance companies. And finally, let me say that nothing in this budget seems to suggest that the pensioners and the poor will be better in the next year. We would also be patient if the young people behind us were better, but according to the projection for the next three years, we see three reforms: a new reform of pension insurance, a new reform of health insurance and a new reform of social security. Teached by experience, no reform has contributed to the pensioners. We're scared. We've got hours of life ahead of us that are inexorable. It'd be all right if our kids got better. As a result, all together should make additional efforts. If we're already reducing, we're changing the formula to coordinate pensions with salary growth, let's open up new jobs for this. Our kids are gonna get a job here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48038	Thank you very much. And the last club, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go. I'm sorry, not the last one. Last one. Last one. Here you go, it's me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48039	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the state budget is the most important annual act in the country and as such draws attention to all groups in society, to approach it differently, and to give each one the arguments he holds that will be the easiest to demonstrate the state of affairs in either the state or the budget. And that is why, precisely for the seriousness of the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, I have tried to get as wide and deeper accurate and verified information as possible in order to explain the developments in both the state and the overall movement and I would say in a completely different way than it could have been read in the debates so far. We, too, from the HDZ Club, do not need to sexise with any clubs or individuals but simply express our vision, our way, our strategy and the leadership of the state in a stable, secure, economic and social environment. So it would have been a lot easier for me if I had written a speech and read it, but it's precisely for the use of this data and I'm already saying in advance that I'm going to use the CNB's data thoroughly because they're the freshest in any way since a few days ago and this one from the State budget is trying to make a plastic point of the phenomena that are happening. First in the introduction, I want to highlight only a few general thoughts and then show a certain macroeconomic movement in the environment precisely because of Croatia's comparativeity with this macroeconomic environment and then a easier conclusion of what is actually happening? We believe that this budget guarantees macroeconomic and economic stability, particularly social security, which we have doubted earlier and different assessments about and despite some of the announcements that this budget will follow clearly indicates that the economic recession does not have known data and estimates by the end of the year, and based on that assessment in the following year. Also this budget is balanced and we are finally going towards the path of final fiscal consolidation and whatever word we use but ultimately public insight of all citizens because yet all data will finally have to go through the budget. I'm speaking in a simplified dictionary so that we wouldn't be too experts without being understood by the simple regiment. So for the first time we're going to try... /The speaker doesn't understand./...analyze that we can, of course, have control behind it, and then there's a debate here that's been happening? Now before these parliamentary elections was, let's say, one of the the thesis was if HDZ came to power following you isolation, there's no state. Now these days the information comes from the IMF, from the World Bank, from the European Commission and wonders now just those who have tried to display such a thesis earlier say: Well, these data are not very reliable because they are rooting too much on the outside now, so I would say simplisticly about the government. Which wouldn't really matter. Here is precisely why I want to present some of the information that is official, officially available, and then movement through Croatia and through this budget and states to see what is happening? Here through the macroeconomic environment in the world, the economic situation was more favourable than in Europe. In the last year, it is predicted that in the next year and the next year. And somewhere in 2004 they say that it was in the world, it was about 5% growth. In the next year and next year, there will be a fight to keep them at about 4.3%. The main engine on that economic train would say so freely interpreted in the world is China. Or mostly China. Unfortunately, Croatia only imports from China, so it is not a serious business partner for it to withdraw part of the consumption and thus affect our movements. But that's why the movements in Europe say that in the last year and in 2004 there was an economic increase of 2% in 2005 by the basis of these estimates and their statements to 1 and a half percent in order to try to raise to 2.1% in 2006 next year. Why does this matter? The main trade, foreign trade partners of Croatia are right in Europe. Italy, Slovenia, Austria and Germany, and also the largest number of tourists come from these countries. So, due to this lower rate of economic growth, demand for the sector is decreasing, and also with the extraordinary results we have achieved in tourism, they are still diminished compared to the possible economic growth of these countries. And for these reasons, you should now see what they say about this, according to the information published, available from the European Commission. They're slightly different, but minimal and from our later data. They say the Republic of Croatia is making good progress, that economic growth will be achieved at 3.6% in 2005. I repeat, I read these data. That in 2006, it's going to spin around about 4 to go to 4.4 later. Now these percentages in relation to this average Europe are the only ones who point to a comparative no matter what war we have and the consequences that we are, but still in the company faster progress and faster growth than the environment in which we are. For this reason, we can say that from the data we see that economic growth within the country has been strongly based over the past period of this year, we are talking about it, and it is the basis for next year, in personal consumption. It is also in the next period, and it is their assessment that in the next period, and we are also giving information in which we are proving this in the budget for the next year, that this personal consumption will also need to be driven by public consumption. And that's why they're data of 16 or how many billion anyway, but in any case they'll be stepped up in order to save personal and public consumption to pull off production, and then that kind of production could increase employment and all that it carries with it. Here, these data clearly indicate unemployment data. I will later, if I allow time to try to show the table in full view and clearly that unemployment still tends to fall from year to year and at the same time is an increase in employment. Of course, in those shears, they meet in some way in the time behind us. Therefore, employment increases and unemployment declines. I probably don't have time for percentages. Our GDP or gross national income in this time is estimated, the development of this estimate is somewhere around 3.9% this year could end with a rise in next year, 2006 to 4, 4.1, 4.3, because we are talking about projections in the coming years so that I don't have to go back later. Inflation. Well, inflation should point out that inflation story that was done in this year's inflation, not just with us, and in the world. Energy, the rise in the world’s price of oil and the rise in steel prices, especially those two elements, and energy in that third part have a special impact on our production, and then on business costs and everything that comes out of it. The following year, it is estimated that it would fall somewhere on 3.2, 2.8 and 2.6 so that it would later have a lower but stable one, because price stability and inflation stability would then indicate stability of movement in the structure of the economy. The current account deficit, balance of payments in 2004, because we are now combining the period for the next base around 5.2, fifth, 5.9, so that in the sixth estimate it could be about 5.5 and 4.7 and eventually end up with 4. The deficits are particularly affected, but the slower the growth of imports of goods has a positive impact on it, which, especially through the tourism sector and other services, is being compensated for by such negative growth. We believe that the next time foreign debt, with all the stories we've heard, which we will hear and, of course, in an individual debate, needs that debt, and can be stabilised somewhere at an 83% rate. And that, in the present conditions, would stabilize the situation completely. The increase in foreign, foreign direct investment, because that's where the story was going this year, and that's what the deficit talks are about, as well as possible funds for investment. Eventually, these are the assets that we feared at the beginning of the year that we would sell out the country in this year, so we'll have big revenues, so we'll spend it in the consumption sector. However, as the privatisation revenue is largely missing, I repeat, in this period, in this year, this follows in the coming year expectations that in certain areas may give certain revenue and, of course, some shifts with all the consequences. Hiring on the domestic sector, on the domestic market, I will not have relative relations, but I want to point out once again on behalf of the club two fundamental objectives. The first objective, to escape from the risk of foreign debt and the dangers of such uncontrollable risk of such a task. Secondly, that we want to certainly develop the market, and here thanks to most of these moves and of course to others, and we recently adopted and discussed at the last session here and that agency law, market surveillance and phenomena that go from there, we can say, however, that the market has functioned and that it goes in favour of debt. To the side that this debt continues to grow in part, but much faster the debt of others and the debt of banks, especially in that sector of leasing they use. However, in this debt it should be pointed out that, especially in this time, through this demand and consumption in the sector, I am already using the opportunity to say that in this time large payments were banks through credit funds, which has significantly fuelled this demand and very interestingly that this demand has grown in car placement, and all of them from imports. So it's a whole circle that closes and then acts so negatively on the market and, of course, everyone represents their own interests, so does banks. And ours is that then through control, through the CNB we try to find measures. The general government's consolidated deficit in 2004 4.9 is now that we are leaving the base period with 6.3 significant reductions and no further comments on relations. And in 2005, from 4.2 to 3.3 in 2006, and 2.8 finally there in the last year of the projection, however, significantly decreased, of course, to the good and bad sides of such a deficit. We heard the debate and the IMF finally agreed to agree and I think this projection is quite appropriate. The general government's debt should be reduced for the first time below 50% but should be reduced we keep the current 45.3% to 42.8.43 in the last year gradually by the years as exposed, of course, can be reduced. Here, these are general data that clearly point to completely different tendencies, statistics, official from those trends that everyone is trying to organize. This year's revenue based on such movements is based on a safe and stable movement by the end of the year we estimate revenue and expenditure in the following year. The incomes are rising at the rate that has already been passed, so I don't use about 93 billion and total expenditures around 98, with all the content. But what's important is that the revenue from 2005 is already growing from about 7.2% next year, and that the expenditures are growing at a rate somewhere it seems to me 6.2.3%, I don't know exactly now, but somewhere. So, faster is the increase in income than the increase in expenditure, which also indicates as one of the indicators of positive movements. Finally, the income tax to be used for local self-government through the structure also indicates that its increased incomes also point to a trend in employment and there is no new fiscal burden. So that's one contribution, too. The VAT is also growing. And now finally I want to say that once again, that about 72, 73% of almost income is predetermined by existing laws, not our wishes. And those three groups of basic incomes, pensions, health care, wages, social services, that block we used to highlight. Therefore, the majority of this is pre-based on existing laws and allocated. In the growth of the economy in the domestic sector, I said in part about the increase in retail traffic. In the second part of the movement and those sectors of the index, now they can't and there's no need. In the end, and through an individual debate, we will eventually use it. But here's only two data. Official data from the monetary authorities say industrial production, particularly the processing industry, has very stable and stable growth. These are the data published these days. Thus, with all risks and dangers, it will continue to be maintained. What delights in production, but this also has a significant impact on the export sectors, is the production of food products, non-alcoholic beverages, then production in the metal sector, the chemical sector, metal machinery and vehicles. Therefore, it clearly points out that the situation is economically stable, that the recession will not be. Here I am still using the data to show publicly and clearly how unemployment, the movement of unemployment and real wages clearly indicate that they have stable and secure growth. It's official data. Therefore, we believe that in such a safe and stable environment this budget can satisfy most of the needs in society, and that, ultimately, under the existing law, it does not apply to all in the state, that there are other sources, other areas covered by the law. And the last thought for those who fear that this government will leave a disintegration is not to be afraid because this government is driving stable, so take care of what happens next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48040	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48041	... Mr. Chest claimed that increased employment. On the contrary, unemployment is growing. Today in the morning, the electronic media said, or reported, that tomorrow we will have the opportunity to hear in written media, that this is the third month since unemployment is growing. After all, you also have data on the economic movements of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so please be informed on page 9 which is already talking about increasing unemployment in September.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48042	Thank you. Second correction by respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48043	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my fellow Wrestler who claimed that an agreement had been reached on the deficit with the IMF. The deficits for this year are... at 4.2% of GDP and we remember the stand-by agreement that speaks of 3.7. I would not like to comment, there will be enough time on this, so there has been no agreement and no sizes have been reached in the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to standing by arrangement. And the same thing to talk about stable growth, and that's going down. We have a lower one year after year, we'll see more for this year, but you know from 3.9 so we bring it down to 3.8 so next year they're projecting something more, so let's just look at the projections at the last budget they're not realized. It just means that we don't have stable growth, we really do have a descent. Someone calls it recession, someone stagnation, and you call it stable growth. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48044	HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48045	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen of the Ministers, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Government. This is the first budget in which all state spending is indeed shown. In addition, for the first time, all the programmes that the Assembly actually accepts through the adoption of the state budget are presented in detail, and that is good. The reasons are therefore detailed, but often the figures in the arguments do not have a slight connection to the figures in the draft budget, and we hope that those figures in the budget are correct. So we appreciate the effort you have made, but please, when you are already budgeting in the procedure, make sure that the figures in the arguments and in the draft budget are consistent. Otherwise, it is good that we really get through the arguments the reasons why a single item in the budget is what it is and that is really the first time and it is a good practice that should continue. But look at the items of the budget, the structure of the budget is practically the same as in the last two years, it's obviously continuity. What is badly imagined and misstarted continues equally, and what went well continues well. So there are no reforms and there are no major changes in the budget itself. A little statistics and comparisons of this budget to the previous ones. It amounts to all 109.6 billion kunas in total, of which about 40% of this type of budget is reserved for extra-account funds. So when the Pension Insurance Institute is 25.7 billion and for health insurance 15.7 billion, then the clean budget outside these funds is 68.2 billion kuna. And now that this compares to the budgets of this same government over the past two years, there really is no difference, there is always a budget somewhere around 40% of that total state spending with all the funds combined. These 68 billion kunas can be spent on various projects, but that amount is not available either, because when credit wars are taken from it, guaranteed salaries of officials and anyone on the state budget, all 10 to 15% of the budget shown can be spent creatively and that is the problem facing all Croatian governments, both this and the previous and that before. So, unfortunately, we are in a situation that only 10 to 15% of the budget can truly be spent creatively, so it is crystal clear that the role of the budget is and must be to protect strategic national interests, protect national resources and invest in the future, either through strengthening production capacities, whether through investment in infrastructure, or through investment in education. At that amount of just over 100 billion kuna all of what we are going to propose as improvements to the budget itself are really very small amounts, but we could contribute to the functioning of the Croatian state itself. First of all, the annual legal, medical, agricultural colleges are completed by students who prove their full training for work in their profession on the state exam after at least 12 months of internship. The same applies to high school students for craftsmanship. It is therefore necessary to finally introduce the financing of the traineeship for all of them through the state budget in the division or Ministry of Education or in the division of the Ministry of Economy, for example. through the Employment Service, which would all be enough somewhere around 200 million kuna a year. So for all interns in Croatia finally introduce paid internships. This must not be expensive for us, for it is indeed the end of education. If the entire education in Croatia is free, then let us also make this additional effort to cover the internship. In addition, the permanent problem of all parents from the island whose children go to high school in large coastal cities is their diet. Those who are located in the dormitory have a diet solved in the home itself, but not everyone has that convenience. The only logical proposal is the introduction of student "ixica", which can also be called "ipillonics" by which high school students who are not in dormitories could also be fed, for example. In the student cafeteria. For the purposes of all of them from our islands, 4 million kuna per year would be sufficient throughout Croatia. I've already asked the current minister on two occasions, I've never received an answer to this simply because there's no money in the budget. For these 4 million kunas, money must be found in the budget at least in the budget reserve. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development with only one million kuna scholarships students and students of maritime schools, which is inaccessible. Their torments are not over by schooling, for on average about 20 thousand kuna each must be set aside for liquids and matricula exams. The ministry must finally introduce order into this system of extra-school exams for maritime officers and introduce support to cover the costs of these courses and exams. The ministry itself organises such expensive courses and exams, then it will either subsidize that price or explain to its people who conduct those courses and exams to a little lower their charge. Croatia will lose its seamen very quickly without it. The Ministry of Agriculture in our court must double its efforts to raise several years before entering the European Union. Not as far as I can see from the Ministry of Agriculture, 64 million kuna is foreseen in 2005 for multi-annual plantations, for the next year 70 million kuna, for 2007 and 2008. 80 or 90 million kuna, respectively. That's inadmissible. And instead we suggest that instead of 70, 80, 90 million kuna over the next three years, it's twice as much, so 140, 160, 180 million kuna. It has to be in the budget for that space because we have very little time. Not only for the preparation of planting areas, but also for the production of fruit material itself. And there is not one more priority job in adapting agriculture to the European Union than that. Because once we enter the Union, we can't spread olive plantations, vines, apples, maraskys, etc. The same priority in this ministry is just a fishing boat construction programme to exploit the economic belt. We are implementing this programme, but in a way that this ship is practically inaccessible to most fishermen at this price. Insurance of safety transport standards at airports is such that fog at all Croatian airports is an insurmountable problem. Except recently at Zagreb airport. I was a witness a month ago that the fog plane couldn't land in Dubrovnik, and we're talking about the development of high tourism, we're talking about intercontinental flights, we're talking about Dubrovnik as a soft one where tourist traffic will grow, and our planes, ladies and gentlemen, don't land there just for the sake of the storm, but there it is for the fog, in the 21st century. If we want an increase in traffic and an increased category of our airports, all our airports must get a "instrumental landing system". Zagreb has it already. For all our airports on the Adriatic, it costs 35 million kuna in total. And I can't believe there's no funds in the budget for that. None of us have to give the amendment that is present here, but I expect the ministry to show consciousness and that only the amendment in this regard during the second reading of this same budget. It is also necessary to consider extending the runways at Split and other airports in the Adriatic so that they can receive the largest aircraft, which is of particular importance for intercontinental flights. It's in vain to fight that there are direct flights of Osaka-Zagreb or Osaka-Split if we don't have an airport that can take a plane like that. The strangest, however, are the individual divisions in the MRLs. The cost of peacekeeping missions is increasing. In 2004 and 2005, it was all under the Ministry of Finance, I don't know why under the Ministry of Finance were the cost of peacekeeping missions, but it was 45 million kuna. This year and next year it will go to 124 million kuna and years later even more. So why? At the same time, the fire protection that was under the Ministry of Finance last year now comes under the Ministry of Finance down from 181 million kuna and 170 million kuna in this year and last year to only 70 million kuna next year. Is it possible that the ministry's colleagues think there won't be a fire next year or that we don't need canaders, that we don't need equipment? So we're asking that there be at least 100 million kuna. Again, we expect you to make your own amendments to the state budget. And the Coast Guard that was first introduced to the Croatian state budget this year was divided by the MORH, now look out, 35 million kuna. According to Coast Guard experts, these money cannot be covered even by coast guard fuel. According to the state budget, the figure is 95 million, and here in the draft budget itself, it says 35 million. I guess you expect us to rebuild a few galleys, a lot of fast ones, and then patrol the Adriatic with them. So, with these means, you can't do it. The expected amount is 145 million kuna. And the fact that you haven't written the Coast Guard Act so far doesn't aliminate you from preparing the funds and passing that law this year. SDP colleagues wrote the law, you didn't accept it, we're going to have to write it this time. And this year, the 17 million kuna fleet is planning to be restored. In 2007, the Jadrolinier fleet was renewed by 30 million kuna and in 2008 by 130 million kuna. I really don't mind the fleet of Jadrolinius being restored. But all this seems like we don't have a ship-line traffic law in the process that actually wants to introduce a public-private partnership in shipping on the Adriatic. So let the government decide what they want. Whether to introduce privates so she doesn't need a "Jadrolini" or needs a "Jadrolini" so she doesn't need privates. To what extent are we going to do this? But it's really unusual to bring these items, very clear in the budget, and before that we haven't defined the ship's navigation system on the Adriatic and the way it's financed. This is how we will actually be bound by this budget line when the Ship Transport Act is discussed. Also in this budget, I have not received an argument from anyone from the Ministry of the Sea, neither I nor my colleagues, and I believe that no one in the Assembly has yet spent the funds of those 280 million kunas per year on shipping and high-speed lines, but we have no arguments as to how this will be done next year. The healthcare part of the budget must be able to finance specific activities, and this is the Emergency Service on the highways. Mr. Minister, the current condition is that the E.R. needs a minimum of 45 minutes to the crash site and that's if it hit the right side of the highway. Permanent duty on one knot would cost Croatia about 100,000 kuna per month. For all highways in Croatia, it is about 3 million kuna per month, or 36 million kuna per year. And don't tell me it's big money because let's not wait for some big accident to happen so let's just say we couldn't finance it. There may be a cheaper model, but let's not wait for the accident to test it. What we also find inadmissible is the fact, gentlemen of the Ministry of Culture, that there is no division in this budget for the Croatian Memorial Centre. It was an HSP initiative, the initiative was adopted by the Croatian Parliament. The budget for this year, the current one, accepted some symbolic amount for the start of work, but in the 2006 Budget there is no amount for the Croatian Memorial Centre. It is likely an oversight or a budget that is so transparent that this amount is invisible. So, I ask you nicely to make it very clear where that amount is or if you forgot to put it in the Government's amendments urgently. And for the end, two things. It's about budget implementation. On the one hand, the fact is that the Government did not implement the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the cost of $35m to complete the story of Italy's debt regarding Esul, and in that sense we will again submit a request to do so from the Law on the implementation of the budget for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48046	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48047	A colleague, Tadic, says these figures are real and accurate in the budget. It is not true at all, nor gives any certainty that the budget that we adopt in the House will actually be implemented. I'm going to argue that on two examples. The implementation of the 2004 budget in expenditures is higher by more than 240 million kuna than it was in the original budget adopted by the Parliament, and this happened in this budget as well. In fact, by rebalancing the 2005 budget, we established total operating expenditures at the level of 87 billion 633 million kuna. So now in this section where they compare to the 2005 plan, these costs are increased, i.e. expenditure increased by 31 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48048	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48049	A colleague of Tadic is not correct that you can expect this government to invest an additional 4 million for the needs of island students because she has just cut 60 million funds for the islands. So I find it hard to believe that you will vote for such a budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48050	And that's a correction to hope. And the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48051	Thank you very much. I'd just make it right maybe because here's Mr. Tadic didn't see the other items. In fact, the Coast Guard is not only financed from the Coast Guard item, it is financed both in the budget and in the MORH budget and in the MUP budget, so that this amount is not the total amount of coast guard financing but only one small part. The same goes for emergency medical attention on the roads. We have in the health budget a special item as exists in both the state budget and local budgets, a special item of emergency medical assistance, so we need to look at the whole budget and then the figures are a little more optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48052	Thank you. Now the club debate is finally over in 15 minutes' debate. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48053	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Every budget, including this one, is actually provoking the need to talk about economic policies, but this budget definitely reveals the fact that economic policies in this government are a complete coincidence. Proposal for a budget... For 2006, the current unchanged practice of income and expenditure planning continues from the bottom-up method. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means that, primarily, the expenditure of individual government portfolios for the next fiscal year is calculated and the necessary revenues are calculated. This method simply leads by definition to the budget deficit. The draft budget reflects either the internality or incompetence of the Government, above all, to take advantage of the 2006 budget for the purpose of preparing the appropriate fiscal policy mix as the only policies remaining in the power of the Government of individual countries after accession to the European Union. To make assumptions for the long-term balance of the budget during the aftermath of privatisation revenues and to bring fiscal and monetary policies into line with the objective of fostering long-term sustainable economic growth. When we talk about budget revenues, there is no budget expenditure, there is no doubt that expenditure is growing faster than GDP, suggesting that certain political and economic pressures continue to require deficit funding. A particular problem is the non-transference of the Health Insurance Fund and there is no political will to face the need to restructure this segment of public spending. The structure of budgetary expenditure cannot even find traces of expected new industrial policies necessary to launch a new cycle of economic growth. Budgetary income structure shows that so far the strong relying on public finances on taxes, on consumption and on privatisation revenues continues. I guess he intends to sell HT very quickly, probably INA, etc. In this way, the Croatian fiscus remains expendable, but even more dangerous than other comparable countries, it does not play a role in leading economic policy. Budgetary revenues are overestimated for political reasons, as was the case in the 2005 Budget, and the reasons for overestimation lie in political requirements for the central state's statistical deficit to 3.3 GDP and the government's inability to control public expenditures. Instead of the promised tax discharge of companies and citizens, the government is actually increasing tax pressure through this proposal, and this pressure bordering on administrative harassment of entrepreneurs cannot bring increased revenues but is causing the opposite effects that are manifested through the clarification of the entrepreneurial climate and the decline of investment activities. The budget deficit, although the government through the draft budget, says the central state deficit will decrease this will not happen. The reasons for uncertainty lie in, under (a) the uncertainty of achieving the planned economic growth of GDP for 2006 at 4% even though it is insufficient, b" uncertainty of income, tax revenues especially VAT and c) uncertainty of obtaining privatisation revenues. Although the opening of negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union requires, among other adjustments, the adjustment of tax and fiscal policies, the proposal for a 2006 budget does not indicate that the Government intends to adapt public finances in this, or next fiscal year. There is also no turning point in the current composition of macroeconomic policies. The government has simply delayed fiscal adjustment for a future period when such adjustment will be incomparably difficult to implement, so the proposed budget of the central state is neither developed nor social, but simply covers the resulting public expenditures and finances along the way of certain nebulises. It is also not pro-European, because it does not reflect the existence of any instrument that would create new macroeconomic policies to adapt Croatia's economy to the European Union, Mr Minister. Only common agricultural policy and regional policies remain in the European Union, and fiscal policies are in full competence of the Member States. I don't see anything in this budget that we're trying to create a serious fiscal policy. The proposal also reflects government delusions that have no policy formulations that would dynamic the Croatian economy and direct it towards sustainable economic growth. I believe that this government or any other government, in one word, of the political elite in this country, must finally understand that the fundamental problem of this country is the lack of economic policy that would allow for the resolution of the fundamental issue in this country, which is a matter of employment that can only be successfully solved in one way by development, but not by any development, but primarily by industrial development, production development and export-oriented branches of the economy and not by any rate of GDP, not by any rate of 3, 3 and a half, 4%. See what happens in other countries that are either candidates or have become members of the European Union where GDP development rates are measured exclusively by codes 6, 7, 8, 9, 9 and a half. Croatia needs only such development rates. For such development in this budget, there is no room or simply this government cannot establish such an economic policy, and if we add to that another major problem that will certainly happen, I do not intend to talk about the Ministry of Agriculture or Agriculture, I hope that in an individual debate my colleagues from the club will say this, but I only have one sentence to say about it. Through this budget, it is evident that this government has disowned 350 to 400 thousand small peasants. She gave up, and for them there's no room in this budget. Croatian agriculture Mr. Minister and gentlemen from the government will never become a big business, a big economy. It must have a significantly different dimension, what is today modern in Europe called multifunctional dimensions, not to explain it. Try to understand that you cannot treat agriculture the way you have acted so far. And Mr. President, just a few more sentences. You weren't here when Mr. Zubovic was making things right. I have to use my exposure and answer him. Needless to be a prosecutor in this House. Everything I say here or at a club or on a committee is publicly spoken, but it is true that I am a Mr. Ambassador of the European Commission after submitting the first report by the European Commission on the progress of the Republic of Croatia where they have estimated that the progress of the Republic of Croatia is particularly good in macro-economic elements, I told him that my party has more criteria because it is not possible to assess the development rate from 3.3 to 3.5% and I have discussed it with Mr. Ambassador. And Mr. Ambassador understood me very well because I reminded him of both Romania and Bulgaria, and Estonia and Lithuania, etc. where the rates of development are measured at those rates, Mr. Minister, which I was talking about. Therefore, Mr. Zubovic does not need to be a prosecutor. There's a phonogram from that session of the foreign-political committee. I made it clear that I am not satisfied that Croatia is assessed as a well-developed country with a 3% development rate because such assessments, my dear gentlemen, can have long-term negative consequences for Croatia. I also said that we do not accept the European Commission's assessment that significant progress has been made in the area of the health and pension system. What Croatia has today in the health system and the pension system cannot be called progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48054	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48055	It is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who said that the government in terms of realising the budget itself and the proposed budget will either exert tax pressure. It is absolutely incorrect because it is evident from the proposed budget that no tax in this country will increase and therefore neither tax pressure in terms of realisation of the budget itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48056	Second correction by the respected representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48057	Mr. President, Mr. Tomljanovic has already partially answered this question. I would also repeat that the government is not pressuring entrepreneurs, but the government is offering very favourable credit lines to entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48058	Third Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48059	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed representative has made several incorrect allegations. The first that the HZZO budget is non-transparent and that there is no will to restructure a segment called health care. It's both wrong. The budget is very transparent but with the part where the operations or expenditures of the funds are shown, it is necessary to read the part in health care, so when one is added together, there is a really transparent budget of the HZZ and that there is a will to restructure the Ministry of Health is just completing the reform and all the new laws needed to introduce order into this system. It is also incorrect that the health care system says it cannot call progress. Well, of course it's progress. From your government, Mr. Representative, we've inherited 7 billion total debt, blocked hospital bills, and stopped delivering drugs. The finance ministry has returned 2.5 billion, we've restructured and restored the next 500 million by restructuring business and now the system is secure, the drugs have and there's no threat of hospital blockade. If it isn't for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48060	And the fourth correction by the esteemed representative Vladimir Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48061	Mr. President, I'd like to correct two allegations from my colleague Tomcic. First, his statement that the draft budget is neither developmental nor social and is financed by certain nebulises. I really must say this in addition to what is not true, or then he did not read or want to see some of the positions and items in the budget that are listed. And another thing, says the government has given up 350 thousand small farmers or peasants. It is necessary to see the position for agriculture, to see an incentive in which, among other things, the means to promote agriculture among these small farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48062	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48063	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's very short. We bid here even with the information that has been officially published. So when we talk about the growth of gross domestic product, we forget that in 2000 it was 2.9, 2001. Four, four, two, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, Unfortunately, neither the former government has been able to continue to grow steadily, and this is simply the growth of gross domestic products that is not a matter of good wishes. You bid so nicely six, seven, eight, nine. You had a chance for four years, you didn't do it. However, it is very interesting that your observation is that you are going to say that in Croatia you are not. It's just proof of one jealousy, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48064	Thank you very much. We have a correction to Mr. Slavko Linic's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48065	I'm correcting Minister Shuker in that we can't read the data. To talk about growth rates then we go to the initial years 1999 minus 0.9, then 2.4, then 4.2, then 5.2. Well, it's the first semester of 2000. 5.1 and then for election 4.3. Someone's gonna say we really don't know how to read. It's probably back from 0.9, minus 0.9, up to 4.3, that's back. But from 4.3 to 3.9, so to go down to 3.5 with this year's projection, that's progress. It's all right. We don't know how to read ministers, and we'll never know how you want to read because you're contesting something that's so obvious from 0.9 to 5.2 is zero. It's for all of you in all the three years you've been saying zero. But getting the GDP down is a success for you. Mr. Minister, we can't understand each other and we won't understand each other. And that's what our problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48066	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go. Mrs. Ljubica Lalic, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48067	Mr. Minister said the former government's constant was alluding to the fall. Yes, Mr. Minister, we had a constant, and right from minus 0.9 we got to 5.1. And you only have a constant in the opposite direction, from 5.1, you're now at 3.2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48068	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48069	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable members of the government! Here, you're a lot of excuses. You've been apologizing for three years, I'm sorry. You couldn't, and the people chose you and the citizens chose you to find solutions, not excuses. But obviously, you're just a lot of excuses and excuses. We couldn't. You could've gone on like that. Maybe the first few months made sense, now it's really pointless and it pisses us off here no more in the benches, but it pisses the citizens off. When we ask whether this 2006 budget is developmental, whether it is social or liberal, whether it is balanced or unbalanced, or whether it will make citizens unbalanced, I think it may be a more correct question whether it is feasible or actually just a mask for a final September rebalancing. And does he actually smell a bit of an election? It may be a crucial issue, a crucial question for the assessment of each budget and this evaluation of the concept of economic policy that would result in, or resulting from, the content of the state budget itself for the following year. The real question is how much is this budget in the interest of Croatian citizens? How much is this budget in the interest of Croatian workers? Those who have no other desire than to live off their work. Whether they're workers or entrepreneurs who don't want to be addicts of any kind. Not just about alcohol and drugs, but about the state. Who don't want to be subjects. And choke on the crumbs. Who want to be proud of their citizens, to live and to let them live in peace only from their work. Or it's this one, otherwise you in the government have the right to laugh. You make fun of Croatian citizens. And you really do, Mr. Minister, have someone to laugh at, but there's no one. Now let me go back because I have the right Mr. Vice President here to self-help, which I will use if you do not protect me from this inconclusive behavior of certain ministers who laugh as MPs speak. But rudeness is an absolute category. [[Intruder: A relative thing is insecure.]] How much this budget is essentially in the interest of investors, the EU exporters in the Republic of Croatia, neighbouring and other Western states pretend to buy the remaining good economic pieces in the Republic of Croatia. The answer is clear. He is indeed, this budget in one part balanced. What's he balanced into? It is balanced against HDZ and IMF and foreign banks. And where are the Croatian interests? This budget offered by the Government to the Croatian Parliament is indeed an excellent budget for foreign investors who are not interested in Croatian employment, who do not care what salaries are in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, they keep saying the labour price is too high and too high. However, the opening of a final issue to which these great benefits are to the detriment of Croatian citizens and to the harm of whose property will be raised very quickly? And at the expense of whose standard? At the expense of whose standard will the deficits in the State budget and the balance of payments be covered abroad when privatisation is completed? And that this moment is very close showed the other day a very clear explicit Prime Minister Sanader proposing right in Opatija to support him in his intention to add value to the gross social product by adding a statistical add-on to the gray economy. Is this to know that you will give up the fight against the gray economy so that in this way and in this display the gross social product will be greater? And you also want to show the value of exporting goods by adding traffic that foreign tourists make in green markets, by our shops, concerts and other places. The 2006 budget, amounting to €98.8 billion, is 8.7% higher than last year, based on a targeted increase in gross social product by 4% and a lower revenue over expenditure and in equivalent to 3.3% of the budget, which will try to reconcile further privatisation of INA and HT. Obviously, here it has already been observed so many times that there has been an explosion of debt, that an upper ceiling of external debt has been reached, that new state loans will appear only to be paid off already existing, but indeed how the state will try to fill those budget holes when it sells the last state stakes. What's that gonna do? The budget shows that there is an uninventional fiscal policy, or a cash-based policy that is so easily available, shares as many as it has, of course and whoever it wants until fiscal policy instruments are used at all. The budget money is used for current consumption. However, this budget shows another political dimension. The way in which the budget is created says that we are once again achieving the fall of the democratic standards reached in the Republic of Croatia. It says how much social dialogue as well as other social rights and human rights in Croatia are not one given and won category but are constantly in danger and shows how fragile the plant is. This is what the Croatian Public Service Union Matica says, which not only estimated that this proposed Budget was neither developed nor social but serves to preserve existing political forces but fully legitimately appeared on behalf of angry trade unions and Mr William Ribic, who claimed that here for the first time in 10 years the budget was passed and will be accepted without social partners. He continues to say that the government's representation procedure is below all dignity. And who, of course, insults the GSV institution. Here's what he says: "The delay is only a cause, and the real reason is that the union, union representatives of GSV within 6 months no one has asked for comments, although in June it is agreed to participate actively in the draft Budget. If that's what you normally do, you're used to communicating with the public. You promise until the danger is passed, until they are removed from you, and then you do what you do and you don't remember your promises. This is how, from the prime minister's statistical maneuvers with the grey economy and the special recording of tomatoes that tourists will buy in the markets, you are thinking of moving forward or increasing the gross social product. However, radical changes, monetary and economic policies will be asked eventually. But she really needs courage, she needs knowledge, she needs patience, a lot more self-discovery, a lot more dedicated work, and less parades and less promenades. But since it's all gone, what else does the government have left than to really act like a laboratory where the distillation of reality turns into an illusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48070	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Nikola Sopčić signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48071	I fully understand the fear of a respected colleague of early elections, given everything that's been going on in her party lately, so there are no memberships in certain cities as in Karlovac. But there won't be any early elections, there'll be regular elections in two years, that was an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48072	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mrs. Gordana Sobol's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48073	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the government. So maybe now it's a little funny to talk, although we're actually only at the beginning of the debate and to convince each other what this budget is really like, is it developmental or social. I have to say for me it's neither, but I wouldn't agree with the minister when he says this year's budget is balanced. In fact, given the deficit on the income side, I'm afraid his balance isn't much of a strong side. Of course, messages come from the ministry, if I read correctly that the ministry hopes the deficit will be covered by the INA and HT privatisation funds. However, I remind here that these funds were expected from the privatisation of the INA, and when we discussed this year's budget, and as far as I know there is no such funds, the state is already going to be additionally in debt. Which way is now the second question. We've spent the last ten days, something more, basically from day to day constantly bombarded with any statements, any signs through the media of how difficult this year's budget is, so I remind you before you went to the Varazdin spa that the budget proposal was somewhere around 95 billion kuna. After you came back from the Varazdin spas, it grew several billion, so now it's turned out somewhere around 99 billion kuna, as if before, it didn't know what would be included in that budget. So it actually happened that instead of discussing the budget as usual, even at a meeting of the Economic and Social Council before entering the Parliament, the government was setting the budget in the Varazdin spas with its local leaders. Of course, the question remains who has profited more or less. It must have been the most profitable after that by our fellow parliamentary representative, who is also the mayor of Osijek, but today it is said in one comment, and because of these agreements and negotiations among other things, it will mainly pay for millions of mosquitoes who have made life very difficult for Slavons and all those who have come to them, which is positive. Of course, it is all legitimate and legal to fight for increased resources, of course the government is trying to get a sufficient number of hands that will rise for the draft budget. But at the same time, it has shown in fact that in this budget, this 2006 budget and the 2007 and 2008 projections, there is actually no development strategy, but it is one of the main policy objectives of providing enough time for the government to survive. At the same time, on the other hand, funds are reduced for islands, for mountainous and mountainous areas, areas of special state concern, border areas. For pensions and social services, someone calculated it, leaving almost all income from VAT, and that users from all categories to which they relate will have absolutely nothing, no better life, the poor will continue to be poorer or poorer, and the rich will only be richer. Painful reforms are being delayed and this is visible from this budget. And let's say, instead of making economic growth, we're creating money, for example. problems, such as health care, are solved by additional burden on citizens through health participation and imposes some 400 million kunas. Speaking, and in the opening statement today, the prime minister was talking about the rise in the standard of living of most citizens in the following year. The pension increase envisioned will address the pension coordination problem. But gentlemen of the government, and colleagues from the ruling coalition, there will remain differences between individual categories of pensioners that you neither have knowledge nor knowledge to solve. And that's exactly what you're showing through the draft of this budget. In November 2003, so 2 years ago, the average pension was a thousand 723 kuna or 44% of the average salary. Today, the average pension is a thousand 857 kuna or 42.68% of the average salary. That makes it look like the pensioners are living better. Now let's remind ourselves of some other categories of pensioners. The average disability pension is about 643 kuna. The average family pension is €599. Or perhaps it should be even clearer and thus show Croatian reality. These are data, statistical information from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the Government. Over 600,000 pensioners have a pension less than an average, about an eye, the average is somewhere higher than a thousand, 674 kuna. Up to 500 kuna has a pension of little less than 53,000 pensioners, and between 500 and 1,000 kunas 120 thousand 470 pensioners. 17% of the total number of pensioners has an average pension below 1,000 kuna. And now, I'm asking if someone's going to answer me how they're going to live better next year? If today a pension home with two pensioners with two average pensions for October barely cover more than 50 % of their monthly needs and spend more, say, more on food than on food. Or we'll talk about new pensioners, so-called. New pensioners who retire under unfavourable conditions, and now the difference in the average pension of these new and old pensioners is greater than 600 kuna. Namely, the average pension of those who go under this new law for this year amounts to a thousand 240 kuna. The increase in the cost of living, inflation that has reached 4.1% in my humble opinion, does not bring much better to the citizens. Unemployment is again, or I'll say constantly, almost over 300 thousand kuna. I don't see what in the budget, 300 unemployed, you don't predict a reduction in unemployment because you're actually increasing the total mass for the unemployed, you don't intend to raise their monthly incomes. I'm asking why? Is that supposed to be a new inflow of unemployed? See today's warning from the company of merchants who warns with the proposed law that should come to the parliamentary procedure on banning the work of 45 thousand of them on Sundays as many as there are registered small shops likely to be in a position that each of them must fire at least one worker. That's a new 45 thousand unemployed, just from small shops. These are the data you can find today and come from a bunch of small merchants. Or should you be reminded of 720 thousand workers who receive less than average wages in Croatia today? In order for a family of four members to survive, it is filled with credit cards, owed and additionally worked on black. Two-thirds of Croatian citizens live on credit, 35% are working on black, and instead of doing so, you are calling for the grey economy to be included in the overall GDP. And today, we've had a chance to hear that the minors who blame them have a few cell phones, that's what they're driving cars, that's what they're supposed to go for winter or summer, so when they give it all up, they'll probably have a basic survival. Or should I keep counting? 121,000 social aid users. I said 600 thousand pensioners who receive less than average pensions per month, 100 thousand workers per minimum wage, and 50 thousand who pay late months. There is no better standard for all of these categories on the draft of this budget next year. And I'm going to end up with a quote from the portal, the Vecernji list web portal, where citizens have commented on the draft budget, so one of them said, an anonymous citizen: No development strategy, money is spent without a lot of sense, that's our problem. Otherwise, the budget could direct development if we knew where we wanted to go. The European Union is too broad a goal to be targeted by the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48074	Thank you very much. We have 7 corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48075	It is incorrect that a colleague claimed that the budget had increased in Varazdin. The budget did not grow because we did not even discuss the items in the budget, but it is true that there is a growing fear that HDZ will call the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48076	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48077	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague said the funds for mountainous and mountainous areas are being reduced, which is not true. The funds for mountain-mounted areas in local self-government units are poured into the budget from part of the income tax and income tax, so it is not possible to know exactly what that amount is. Given the increase in budget revenues, it is logical to expect that units of local self-government in mountainous and mountainous areas will certainly receive more funds than this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48078	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative of the Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48079	Thank you very much. I'm correcting an incorrect allegation of one in a row, where speaking of the pensioners Mrs. Sobol said, you have neither the will nor the knowledge to solve these problems, that's not true. Simply this government has both knowledge and will, but there is courage unlike the government where you were the minister. And speaking of pensions, don't ever forget that same government passed the law you're talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48080	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Vladimir Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48081	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Like what he said, he corrected a colleague of the Dance. My colleague Sobol said that this government has neither the knowledge nor the will to resolve the question of the pensioners. This Government and this Parliament have proposed, or passed, the Reimbursement Act, set up the Pension Fund and showed both the knowledge and the will of course that the possibilities in the budget never enough to solve all the problems, and in four years your authorities, if you couldn't, you couldn't at least try to solve it, but the result of your work on this issue is zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48082	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48083	It is incorrect that this budget reduces the resources of areas of special state concern and mountain-mounted areas. On the content of this absolutely incorrect allegation, my colleague Bekavac said everything, and in the end, I will just add, except that the wrong units of local self-government in these areas can make these tax assets that will profit into their budgets and entrenched, therefore, and increase the income of the tax resources that will be obtained in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48084	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs Mirjana Brnadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48085	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The colleague said that we stopped development, that we do not have a development strategy, so I will only briefly look back at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy where in 2006, there is a further increase in subsidies through the capital investment model and this investment support capital investment increases by 13%, an increase of 10% over the years, the development of economic production by 25%, the development of pig production, the promotion of co-financing and the construction of fishing vessels for 2006 by 34.8 million kuna compared to 2005 where 2 million kuna are. Rural development in our agricultural policy increases 50%, the development of the water economic system by 25%, the protection against the harmful effects of water 6 million kuna, which is 100% compared to the increase in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48086	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48087	Thank you very much. I would correct at the beginning of my colleague's presentation, Sobol, a flat rate when she said that this budget was neither developmental nor social. It simply doesn't stand because the figures that are standing and already repeated today speak differently. I'll just list some. If 16 billion are given into various development projects, then it cannot be said that there is no economic development, that it is not a development project. If only direct and indirect war damage is given 5.7 billion and what is important to note for the service of external debt created mainly by the former government, 7.8 billion are foreseen. Therefore, claims that the budget is not developmental and social are not standing, but this budget is based on the principle of sustainable development.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48088	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48089	Mr. Chairman, allow me to think that he was injured in Mr. Bačić's discussion of Rule 209 and 214 because he said that the result of our government was zero, and that is not true. The result of our government's behavior is HDZ, and I don't think you're a zero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48090	Let's move on. I didn't understand what you said at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48091	You want me to do it again? Can I say it again?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48092	If it was wise, it was recorded. And let those who seek to establish the material of wisdom take it later, and read it. Now it's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's the prime minister today entering this assembly representing this budget saying he's ambitious, but he's viable. I really don't see what's ambitious about it. The structure of the budget is exactly the same as last year, most of the items are prescribed, i.e. increased by unacceptablely large inflation and for inaccessible small GDP, and that is, there is all ambition. The most ambitious in this entire budget is the desire for him to be accepted here in Parliament with as many hands as possible and in this respect is this budget and feasible, it will likely happen. But then that budget, you should give him an adjective who deserves it, he's actually commercial. He's a merchant. We're reading the paper a billion and a half kuna for Osijek because the government suddenly cared about Osijek yesterday. She just remembered yesterday in a conversation with Mayor Djapic that Osijek needs money. So why didn't the government remember that Osijek last year? So why didn't she give up last year when Glavas was looking for that money for Osijek? It's not the government until Osijek. It's up to the government in Parliament, and they'll get those hands. She is used to this government and HDZ as the main party of the government to buy councilors in cities and municipalities. Now he buys additional votes from the parliamentary majority through this budget. The prime minister, therefore, says ambitious but realistic. But we heard all kinds of statements from the Prime Minister when it came to the budget. He also told economists "to miscalculate, you can't count people, it's worth nothing to you that you're respected economists, that you're experts in your field, you don't count, I'll tell you how it counts". He insulted economists there in Opatija because he told them they had no idea about the bill. But that's how the Prime Minister gives good advice, and that's what we're used to. He advised the citizens this way when he collected the gasoline "don't drive people, don't drive, don't go four in the car or don't drive, walk on foot, it's much healthier for you". That was Prime Minister's advice to the citizens. The prime minister, therefore, was obviously intoxicated with a bit of authority, by his supernatural appearance, under a wall icon with his own figure in the clause, presented this budget which could get this single title in general, and would read "when you have no goal then every time it's good". What do citizens have out of this budget? They are not interested in words of development either socially or ambitious or feasible. They're interested in one thing, whether they're under the authority of this government that gives one or another budget to live better tomorrow than they do today. They're looking, they're crying out for answers when we're gonna live better? What answers does this government offer? Dear God, the standard of living is clearly falling. We can get out of these or statistical indicators like that, we can show them one way or another, but how they fit. But the living standard of most citizens in this country is falling, it's collapsing. Food prices rise, energy prices rise, housing prices rise. Ask these citizens how they pay for the directors, how they can make ends meet. Live people from minuses on current accounts and pay high interest rates to banks. What can I do? They have to buy food, they have to eat. So that, in order not to sneak into how good they are, now that they're sick, they still have to pay 10 kuna for each checkup, then 10 kuna for each prescription, and 10 kuna for each leaflet. That's how they live under this government. When you came to power, you came with the slogan "Let's Start Croatia". Nice slogan, nothing. It's been two years, half your term. Croatia should already be in development, a huge site, an abundance of foreign investment, a small enterprise launched. This was supposed to be a picture of Croatia when the government came with the slogan "Let's Start Croatia". And here in this budget of yours is your strongest POA development project. That's where you got rid of the bag, but, gentlemen, my dear, the POA agents won't start us. Well, the POA agents won't bring a better life to the citizens of this country. Well, that's not where the big money was supposed to be pounded. Now that there are no development projects in the Croatian Railways, in road construction, here's Minister Shuker saying "what are you surprised at, so they don't even fit the budget". Well, well, Minister Shuker, how come they were in the budget when you claimed they created a budget deficit with the former government? When they were guilty of that budget deficit, when you needed an excuse for incompetence. And when you blamed the former government for everything. Two years have passed, no more chance to blame the former government. It was also the government's fault for unemployment, although from 420 thousand unemployed, that number was reduced to 307,000 when it handed over power to you. Now, two years later, that number is constantly spinning about 300 grand. Now 5 grand up, 5 grand down, but he's been there for two years on the same level. You have abolished incentives for employment that have created 80,000 new jobs. You claimed they weren't effective, they weren't effective. They're not in your hands, they're not in your hands. They were in the hands of the former government because 80,000 people were employed. If you'd just left them behind and you'd have hired 2 years from now 80,000 people, but then there'd be 160,000 less on the stock market. And now what do you promise? In 3 years 5 thousand employees, 5 thousand new jobs. And you really think that this country can develop at such an unemployment rate, that in 3 years, 5,000 people are employed. Well, we'll never get to the green branch like that. Well, that's how you just don't do it. And these 5,000 new jobs, the prime minister calls it an ambitious programme. So what would be unambitious if this was ambitious? Is the social budget this one? And hear about who. For some groups it is. First of all, for those social groups that are the traditional HDZ electoral body, it is somewhat social for them. But for everyone else in this budget, there is simply no mercy. No mercy, no mercy. It's a picture of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48094	Thank you very much. Mr. Tragevic is too late. ... Like the 9th, he answered. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The first is the correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48095	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the inaccuracies of the esteemed fellow Stazic, who made up the whole story about it, the fact that Slavonia is finally getting money from the state budget. So here's the final variant of Slavonia getting money from the state budget and then Mr. Stazic, are you sorry? That's not shopping, that money doesn't go to HSP, it doesn't go to anyone, it goes to the citizens of Slavonia. So to the citizens of Slavonia, to specifically start the programs of Slavonia and Baranja. I hope you're not sorry that you made a mistake when you spoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48096	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48097	Thank you very much. I only get to correct two incorrect allegations. Mr. Stazic, you said that the premiums were insulted by economists in Opatija. Then what did they do to him in the end? And another incorrect allegation that five thousand jobs were opened. If Mr. Stazic had read the yearbook of the Croatian Employment Institute on page 15, he would have seen 20,000 jobs opened in the first year of the government's term, and in the first nine months another 7 thousand. Twenty plus seven is twenty-seven thousand, not five, sir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48098	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48099	So I'm correcting the guilty allegations of Stazic's representative in the words that the government was buying council seats in municipalities, cities, counties, and that he is now doing so in the Parliament. If that's true or that's true, Mr. Stazic, then why is your party disbanding these city organizations when they have well spent the elections in theirs, as in Karlovac, Sinj, Sibenik appoints governors and now poor people to join again have to learn to bind their scarfs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48100	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the inaccuracy of fellow Stazic, who claimed that the government did not care about Osijek but about the votes in the parliament. Dear colleagues, this government also cares about Osijek and Slavonia and Split and Dalmatia, to Zagreb and Dubrovnik, to Istria and all Croatian parts, and this government advocates a smooth development of all our landscapes, which is evident through projects that we can see from the Pelješac mainland bridge, PC corridor, highway to Sisak, etc. I don't want to pick it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48102	Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48103	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Stazic, said that two years have passed since the government. On 23 December this year, two years of this government will expire, and in these two years, we first had to resuscitate the state after an elemental accident from your government. We are optimistic even though we are not yet fully satisfied, but be sure that in the next two years, and of course in the next term, this government will show what it knows, what it can do to the joy of all citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48104	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Stazic said that the patient must pay 10 kunas for each leaflet and 10 kuna for each recipe, which is an incorrect quote. He can pay for a total of three recipes per month and three instructions, which is significantly less than this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48106	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the first incorrect quote is that we buy by municipalities and cities votes. Oh, there'll be plenty of votes here. However, the second claim is slightly more problematic, that Croatia is not being launched. Croatia is running, it's being built, and when you did, I can tell you from talking to the director of a large construction company. Veli do not let them ever come to power again because they would all go into bankruptcy and while the launched Croatia goes forward you are going back to the roots of demagogy, as well as the growing gap is becoming less visible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48108	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Kajo Butan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48109	I am correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Stazic that unemployment has been reduced from 420 thousand to 307,000 when we are given power. The power was obtained by the voter's will, and the reduction was only seemingly and fictitious at the expense of the administrative measures you have imposed, not at the expense of the opening of new jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48110	Correction of the incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48111	The imprecise allegations by Stazic are that the budget is a commercial alludation to HSP, Osijek and Slavonia. Namely, the HSP of this budget does not have much use for the citizens, as Mr. Stazic says, and if the Croatian Party raises its right to this budget, do not be bitter and jealous, Mr. Stazic, it will be for the benefit of Croatian people, and not for the benefit of a Croatian party's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48112	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ms. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48113	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the government. When I think about how this budget should be, then I like what I've heard from my colleague Zgrebec that the budget is bureaucratic. I would add that he is, without any doubt, the Minister of Finance. I think he should really be satisfied and proud, patched up all the holes, met all the demands, calmed everyone down. Knowing that there is not enough money for all promises or all items to really be executed, but when the rebalancing comes, it is written in the very execution of the budget, that is, the budget. A whole series of items clearly and explained, and that's not enough for that, but we'll figure it out when the time comes. But what bothers me is not the pleasure or dissatisfaction of the Minister of Finance. I understand him, he's not easy, he's done his job. The one who should not be satisfied with this budget is the Prime Minister and I ask you, Mr. Minister, to convey to the Prime Minister that none of the goals of fiscal policy or any other policy he has drawn out, he has promised, created a standing at the head of such a budget is supported and will not be implemented and therefore the budget is indeed bureaucratic. They'll all get a little bit, they'll be for survival and most of them will probably keep quiet, but this budget will continue to increase the deficit. And he said just now that Mr. Markovanovic had complained to him by a builder, that is, thanking that HDZ came to power because it would have failed under the government of the coalition, and I was approached by some other builders who say they were valued, that they were forbidden to point out the situation for the last two months so as not to raise the state budget for the jobs they had done this year. My dears, that's unfortunately true, you can hide it, but it will eventually come out. There's one more thing that's bad, and people remember. You know who under the other pit I dig into falls into it or as our people say in a lie are short feet. I've been driving around Slavonia for the last few days, and I've seen the whole jumbo posters taped up. It says 1.4 billion for irrigation, 4 billion for PC corridor, and you know how much in the budget? For irrigation of 16 million and for corridor PC 1.4 billion for the next 3 years. I'm afraid my colleague Djapic will go as last year, Mr. Glavas, because he's confirmed everything, he's been accepted, but in the budget, my dear colleague doesn't have it. And therefore, be careful rightful, not only will these be deceived, but those who make you do everything you can to make as much money as possible in a commercial government like this. Citizens will be deceived like so far have been cheated countless times when it comes to Slavonia. I'm afraid it's a hypocrite. Let me also talk briefly about a division relating to a ministry where I know very well about problems and in which I know what to do in order to implement this structural reform after which it will be easier for the finance ministers to make a budget. It's definitely about Moreh. It is a very irresponsible move not only by the defence minister but also by the entire government that is reducing the share of the gross social product from which defence and security needs are financed but also by reforms of that same defence and security. All structural reforms you have outlined as a goal should be financed. When are you gonna figure that out? There is no reform if they are not provided with funds and this is happening in the MRLs and this is happening in another sector that I want to talk more about today which is very important, too important in this country because it costs a lot and that is the health and social care sector. In social care some items fall, some grow and some remain the same. There are no significant steps, unfortunately. I recognize some of the steps and indiscipline of this government when I look into financing investments in rehabilitation centres. Last week, we heard a colleague, Chikesh, fiercely forbids us from taking a new law to rebuild those same centers. Well done, I supported her back then. However, when I look into the budget, then I see that it will benefit the only center of Rudine to which she is the principal and sits at his head and all the other centers will get crumbs. Gentlemen, if you will share this way, if you will forget solidarity with all centres, to all users who use the centre services and if you continue to refuse to contract for built capacity at lower prices than it is in the Rudins and at any other state centre to provide such users, then you will not do well to anyone and trust yourself in the long term. When we look at the health department, then we'll see that you can formally talk about some kind of increase, but there's really no increase. Namely, health care funds representing 7.5% but when we correct it for what's called an administrative tax, someone was correcting my colleague's non-taxation. And I say he fixed it well because it's not tax or tax, it's a gentleman's harrass because you took people's money and you didn't give them anything for it. If people had gotten something for that, then I'd have pulled this word for a hack and I'm afraid I can't. When it is rejected, when the 808 million loans you have returned to the Ministry of Health are rejected, you have a total increase of around 180 million kuna. With these money, they will not endure the health care that is now but is absolutely collapsed, which is more functioning only for goodwill and for ignoring obligations for non-payable suppliers. Business conditions are difficult, will be even more difficult in 2006. New current losses will be created and accumulated losses. Although they are constantly hiding their achievements and unpaid, unsettled health obligations will add to the current expenditures in 2006 and this will be paid to you by Mr. Minister. Some items such as prescription drugs and orthopaedic aids are not realistically planned. At the end of 2006, the item of the earned and outstanding liabilities will re-emerge. It is said to aim to improve financial discipline in the health sector through structural reforms and to improve cost control. How? What did the previous minister want? Or the information for which you've allocated significant resources, but strangely certain dynamics. Growth in 2006, a dramatic fall in 2007 and then a terrible growth in 2008 is completely unclear what you intend to accomplish in this way. It is nice to continue to encourage health care in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is what I have advocated, but it is not nice to neglect the county hospitals that you do not want to help. Not only do you not want to help the county and county hospitals, but you want to help all citizens living in these areas. The health reform programme of the structural Mr. Finance Minister, which is why there should be redundancies in the future budgets of the reform has nothing to do with it. The funds for reform, for the health reform programme, are minimal in terms of needs, size and importance and reforms that unfortunately do not happen. It happens in stories, it happens and it only happened through the introduction of administrative fees, through increased lines. There's no reorganization inside hospitals, hospital accreditation is still in the works, hospital system reorganization is a complete unknown. For all of this, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the Ministers, this budget is indeed bureaucratic and it will not help you and at least our citizens to solve the countless problems they face daily.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48114	Thank you very much. We have replicas and corrections, so let's start with corrections. Mr. Andri Hebrang answered first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48115	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative has shown that she has not read the part of the budget in which the Ministry of Defence is spoken, and it really deserves a short correction of the wrong allegation. In fact, MORH came from 3 billion 565 million last year to 4 billion and 81 million this year, an increase of 14.5%. Since the war, this ministry has not had and has not been congratulated by the minister for making a technical, technological reconstruction programme and for raising the allocations for the MORH to the level NATO also requires, which is 1.8% of the state budget, which is the first step in reorganising the system. Too bad she didn't read that part of the budget. As far as health care is concerned, we have heard indeed one great misunderstanding of this system. I'd just fix one. It's not true that we don't want to help the county hospitals, we're just doing the law that you've passed, which is that the county as the owner is responsible for their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48116	Correction of Mrs. Lucia Chickesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48117	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Antunović, nice of you to take care of the center for rehabilitation Mir but today it is not your concern. Your concern was for the past four years when you had to take care and when I came before you and with a donation and a funded building permit you refused and four years did not want to single out the kuna for the project which has all European recognitions and which will receive the European Blue Flag the day after. This is at least hypocritical. And besides, one rule is that. He's smart enough to cover his ignorance, so he doesn't reveal his hidden flank.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48118	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48119	I respect the vice president. Well, here's a colleague of Hebrang's already fixed it. The restructuring funds must be secured in the budget. This is simply seen by reading the Budget Proposal as opposed to the period when a respected colleague was a minister when only the cabinet of ministers was restructured and it was restructured and reconstructed new furniture. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48120	Correction Mr. Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48121	I would correct the incorrect allegations of Mrs. Antunovic's esteemed representative who said, "The most satisfying should be the finance minister who has satisfied everything and ripped up all the holes." It is difficult for Mrs. Antunovic that even Minister Schuker can pick up all your holes that you left behind, and the overall result of your government is HDZ in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48122	No, it's not really for Parliament like that, uh, illusions. No matter what it was thought of. I think that there is a need to avoid ambiguity and clearly, clearly say what is being corrected. Now it's Mr. Vladimir Jelkovac's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48123	Mr. Vice-President Antunovic said one thing that I agree with, which is that the finance minister can be satisfied with this proposal, but I want to correct what she said below, and that no target that the prime minister has outlined will be achieved. So far, the prime minister and this government have achieved all their goals, and so will those set out in this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48124	Mrs. Carmela Caparin's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct a colleague who keeps saying she doesn't want to help county hospitals. That's really incorrect. I will also give you an example of the Belarusian hospital where the minister had great understanding, where he increased the limit and where he was going to build a new county hospital. You forgot to mention not only the introduction of these 30 kunas in your debate, but the introduction of supplementary health insurance in the last term and what it meant for our insurance companies. And how to save the health system I believe that this government will respond allegedly, the next days, not allegedly, forgive me, but the next months when it prepares the health reform in which this government successfully enters and ends it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48126	Correction, Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48127	Dear Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct only one in a series of incorrect allegations especially one relating to the Ministry of Defence because the boast, style and statements of Mrs. Antunovic really do not correspond to reality. Mrs. Antunovic said among other things, "I know very well what to do in this ministry." It's simply not true because I don't know how you would know that because when you got there you didn't know anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48128	Correction Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48129	Well, here's a colleague, Antunovic, incorrectly said something was being built and only worked at the centre run by Mrs. Chikesh. I think many items already prove the opposite. And I was wondering if you were wondering how many institutions have building permits for their projects because that's one of the conditions for going into the budget because whoever I was talking to immediately asked if you had a building permit? When you were in power building permits weren't necessary. It was enough just to build your minister's companies. [[What's the correction? What's the correction?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48130	Correction, like everyone else, as well as 90% of your corrections that are not corrections but expressions of opinion, and it is known that I, while I chair, fully tolerate whatever you say. Mrs. Christmas School.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48131	Thank you very much. Here I am correcting the incorrect allegations of colleague Antunovic when she said that nothing is being invested for the Ministry of Defence. Well, that's not true. My colleagues have already mentioned the percentage for this one, for the following year it is invested in the Moreh. I would just point out that it is true that this minister and the Ministry are very concerned about modernising the Croatian army and also about the equipment and indeed not, this minister does not do parades like you did parades driving on MiGs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48132	Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Mirjana Brnadic. Did you get that? No, no. Then Mr. Bacic because my hand was.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48133	Thank you very much. Well, I would like to correct what my colleague Antunovic said at the end that nothing was actually done in health care and that this administrative tax was a hack without getting anything for her. It can be done around here. She is not a hack, however, she is just one of the measures that exists as such and in many European countries, and I would say that we still get something because if administrative fees had not been introduced then the situation in health care would have been much worse. So that's one of the measures that took this first step in seriousising the expenditure side of our system, and I would remind myself of what I once said today that something had been done, which is that the control was put under control and that from 25% at the beginning of the mandate is now held at about 4%. That's what I mean after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48134	Thank you. Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48135	I thank my colleague Antunovic for the warning about the fears you have shown and for the fact that we are doing these efforts for the benefit of the citizens of Slavonia. However, I would like to inform you that the talks with the Croatian Government and the City of Osijek on projects for the City of Osijek have lasted since 7 months and that they were not necessarily linked to the vote on the Budget, but about the fact that Slavonia and the City of Osijek are objectively from, in a worse state than much of the rest of Croatia for many reasons. Some are objective, and some are not objective. Why is that in Slavonia and Baranja? And we have, absolutely ready to accept the conversation with the Croatian government to try to do something for both the City of Osijek and Slavonia and Baranja in that part of how much we have the possibility of influence on relations in this Croatian, Croatian Parliament. So we want to believe and believe, and we believe that the Prime Minister, who, personally and individually, I have spoken to and personally, will personally support those projects that the Prime Minister publicly presented yesterday, will be taxed personally in front of the Croatian public, because if we do not believe in the public word of the Prime Minister, then who can we trust in the state in a political sense? Both for the end and I agree with you that the funds for the Ministry of Defence are insufficient compared to what we in Croatia have the rights to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48136	Thank you, replica. Go ahead, pick up the board. [[Intruder: Replication response.]] I don't know if you'll answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48137	Thank you very much. Here I am glad that my colleague Djapic and I agree in many ways, and we most agree in our sincere concern for Slavonia. A colleague Djapic did what he could. As mayor of Osijek, he went and used all his resources towards the government to give some of the Osijek projects space. However, they only got the ones you were able to present there. There's still a forgotten hospital in Osijek. A clinical hospital centre is receiving a new one in this budget, however it is only a debt due back two, three years. There's no serious movement in that sense. Slavonia, a respected colleague, is not only a colleague Djupić, not only Osijek, but also Djakovo, and Djurdjevac, Đakovo, who has problems with the disposal, Djurdjevac, who has been staring at the unfinished school hall for years and has not been in this budget. Slavonia and Virovitica whose project to expand an excellent high-level hospital the government has been reluctant to support for years. It's all Slavonia. I also hope that public days will be useful at least in these projects that Mr. Djapic personally fought for by trading, accepting blackmail or what I know is completely irrelevant to me, it is important that they happen. However, what those citizens who had no one or whose representative was not in a position to negotiate, talk and trade with the Prime Minister this way. and there is this lack of solidarity towards all citizens, not only those who have a stronger and more influential advocate. And it's not Mr. Djapic and HSP that's the problem, it's the HDZ and Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48138	Replica, Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48139	Well, I'll be a little cynical, which is not my custom through replicas. Because there was a debate about how the law says not to hospitals, not to county people, not to those where the state doesn't own it. And now, for the last two three days, we've had Topusco's spa. Yes, it's true, Minister Shuker borrowed money from the health care facility. But while they were leaders of HDZ's spa and the same while the board of directors of HDZ [[A man lies publicly and is not ashamed.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48140	Mr. Minister, you didn't get the word and you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48141	Yeah, he borrowed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48142	Please don't come in. Mr. Representative has the right to speak. Especially not like this, inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48143	And it turns out it's not a problem for the hospital, giving the hospitals funds. It's showing up. But it also shows that when the administration and the leadership change, the funds are charged by blocking accounts and 150 employees are left without pay. The account takes their salaries and that's what the tax administration does. True, my colleague, Roksandic, spoke about the government's care for Sisak County, just dropped out to say that this concern is going the way and so that employees are left without pay. And they were supposed to be out of pay tomorrow. And that's tax policy exactly and pushing discipline. Probably because there's no resources in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48144	Answer, Mrs. Zeljka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48145	Thank you, fellow Linic. He warned of some examples of how management was manipulated in one way and both the devastated and the poor, the poor sector's money such as health care. This is an opportunity to say that successful directors of vision have been removed as someone said in the Assembly today because 24% produced more expenditure than they had received. And I say today these produce 76.78% more expenditure than receipts. You can't even agree on whether it's legal or illegal to support county hospitals, so one MP says it's illegal, the other says, and no, no, the Bjelovar County Hospital is investing, which just confirms that what is available to HDZ advocates, as well as in the Rudine Center, is not allowed for some other people who are equally concerned and under equally difficult conditions are trying to help our citizens, whether in health care or social. And finally, the highlight of hypocrisy is to replicate or correct my incorrect allegations when it comes to the Ministry of Defense. Remelt your own minister. Your absolute growth is relative to falling. Even if he knows something about it and wants to do something, he won't be able to do it because you haven't provided him with the funds. What I notice is that there is a hypocritical demonstration of support for the Croatian army tradition of the Homeland War on the 204 case and public deception as it is deceived by facts or by trying to say that some reforms are happening, and they are not actually happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48146	Thank you very much. Representative for the Proposer, Minister Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48147	I answered my word to publicly apologize to Mr. Linic for her reaction from the scene because she was extremely inappropriate. However, I would like to say something else. As my reaction was inappropriate, my sincere apology to Mr Linic, so I find it inappropriate when a parliamentary representative accuses the minister of something that simply doesn't stand. First of all, Shuker didn't borrow the money, because he doesn't have that kind of power. The guarantee was issued by Mr. Vice President of the former government during your government. But also, as there are documents for all, Mr. Linic, last year, at the 9th month, I sent a warning to Topusco, Mr. Linic, please, I sent a warning to Topusco to inform them not to settle their guarantees from the state. They reacted for it, begged for a delay. This year, neither was there any reaction nor anything but a public attack by Ms. Mayor that was because of me and Mr. Nenanic from VI. Election units, so there are documents. But in the end, one more apology for the reaction from the place I was reacting from. But you must understand when you say, you personally called me to borrow money. I just can't do it, it's done, your government has given a guarantee. And you, if you're in favour of those who got state guarantees not to pay them, then say it in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48148	We have a correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48149	Again, I make it very clear that if the guarantee comes and the minister doesn't charge, then he approves the funds. And he didn't charge, and he was supposed to be on maturity for the simple reason that the Topusko leadership was members of HDZ at the time. Minister Shuker was supposed to charge, he didn't charge. At the same time from this pay phone, Minister Shuker says the mayor didn't call him. She tried to reach the ministry's ministers and competent people in every way. The result was blockades and 150 people without pay tomorrow. Yes, it's the minister's behaviour and today he says about the insolence of the minister, I apologize, Mayor. And I say, that mayor was trying to get to the minister politely, to his people. They refused to communicate because it doesn't belong to HDZ. That's the way to help hospitals and it's Minister Schuker who didn't charge and... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48150	Thank you very much. Correction Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must correct Mr. Minister as well. It is not true that only Topusco was blocked yesterday or yesterday because of the payment of a guarantee that the mayor did not respond to and did not ask for a delay in the guarantee fee, but also because a commercial company had also blocked the account and that is correct. And it's also true that the mayor said in her performance that she doesn't need to be helped in pre-election, that she doesn't need to be helped from the state budget for Topusco or the hospital, that she has money to reschedul Topusco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48152	Thank you very much. During a session on behalf of the club may be requested by the president or vice-president of the club or if they are not available, then by another representative. The way I see that deputy or vice president of the club, she didn't ask for a word on behalf of the club. Let's move on. Proposal for a state budget for 2006 and Mrs Marija Lugaric. Here you go. I'm sorry, ma'am, they've still come forward on behalf of the promoter and Minister Berislav Roncevic, and you'll come after that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48153	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is not known and unknown that Mrs Antunovic was, in one part of her political career, the defence minister from July 2002 to December 2003. It is well known to the Croatian public, it is also known to us as the MORH. Unfortunately, we are at the Morh, and now we feel the time of her stay as minister. Ms. Antunović MORH experiences as her toy and simply very often any information from the MRLs and the positive and negative going reaction by Mrs. Antunovic not as a parliamentary representative to which she has a legitimate right but as she builds a new institute former minister. But when she calls out to be a former minister, I'm just going to remind her of some information that her former minister is probably not unknown. The share of the defence budget in the gross social product in 2002 was 2.58%, 2003. - 2.49%, therefore fall because it's normal. In 2004, 2.10% that is the year, the first year of the government's mandate. It's a year of balance of the gross budget deficit. 2005. – 1.80% and in this year 2006 when we talk about the budget at an estimate and on a budget proposal of 1.77%. With this budget that the government has proposed to this House of Highs for next year, much can be done. Not in one financial year can all lag behind, solve the lost investment time and modernisation, but more can be solved. The ideal ratio of investment and investment structure in NATO countries is 50% employee expenditure, 30% expenditure on current expenditure and 20% expenditure on modernisation and equipment. The share of staff expenditure in 2002 would be 68.7%, in 2003. 73.6%, 2004. - 72%, 2005. – 73% and in 2006 according to budget projections that will be 65%, so we are moving towards this desired trend. The share of the defence budget in NATO's gross social product ranges from 1.8% to 2%. Thus, we come to what is desirable and projected. Unfortunately, we won't be able to do it in this year's 2006 budget, but this is a trend that encourages it. Just to remind, equipping and modernising in that part is either under way or planning to start a project of armored infantry vehicle which is our strategic product for the new concept of the Croatian Armed Forces. The completion of the project "Sky", radar systems and the sea finally put into operation one project that cost $95 million, but only in 2004 was it seriously repaired and one other radar station to complete and in 2006 we will be able to put in place another programming and coordination with the "Jurocontrol" sarners in the function of Croatian air navigation control. The Programme of Arms, Military Equipment, Land Army, continues with ABK equipment and a variety of programmes that are either at the end of funding or go into financing. Let me remind you. For the first time in the past year, a system of systematic reception of young officers, high-school people in the Croatian Army, began. The standards of professional development of Croatian soldiers have also been developed to know precisely in this socially sensitive programme of detachment of people with a very sensitive and painful question, on which criteria people leave the Croatian Army and whether those who cannot stay objectively and who may be even worse than them are not left behind. A promotion plan and a whole series of projects have been developed. This budget will not achieve all our ambitions in this year, because we do not expect it, but our main projects are an armored vehicle of infantry in the Land Army, in the aviation squadrons of new fighter aircraft because in 2010 these resources will come out, we no longer want to rebuild them, we will enter a new programme and in the Navy we will operate ships for a new coast guard function. It's not a small project, it's something to be appreciated, but we can't have jumping changes but systematically and consistently. This is the first year and I have announced this is the beginning of a decade of modernization and the support of this budget Croatian military will accomplish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48154	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48155	I'm correcting the incorrect even impertinent allegations of Mr. Secretary, that the MORH, that the MORH, I consider as my toy. On the contrary, I view the MORH as my responsibility and this also confirms the listing of projects you attribute to yourself, which are all designed and started and done more or less in the term of the coalition government. What you attribute to yourself can be further confirmed by repeating once again, that you have finally hypocritically credited yourself with the recognition of war status 204. The brigade that exceeds not only political demagogy but I would say is below the level of one ordinary human feeling with the victims and the pride that the entire series of facts bear witness to, and also the Vukovar epic in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48156	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48157	Mr. Vice President, the Secretary's statement deserves your intervention and warning, here's why. First, she is incorrect and inappropriate to the representative. Secondly, it shows that the minister takes up parliamentary democracy. It is on the trail of statements made tonight and thinks the opposition representative has nothing to worry about how he was founded and how the centre or institution was established. Fellow Members and colleagues of the opposition are also represented in this Assembly of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and are obliged to speak what the citizens ask of them, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. We're not asking for anything more than to do it evenly with you. Mr. Chairman, this is a precedent that you have not given notice to the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48158	In the course of this debate, there were insults and inappropriate words to the Prime Minister and Ministers, and I did not consider it necessary to warn anyone. And I agree that there is a need to safeguard the debates of capacity and the right of MPs, but also the Minister and Prime Minister. Now on behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48159	Mr. Vice President, please rest for the SDP Representative Club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48160	You're obliged to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48161	It is, in order to discuss at the Club's session how we will continue to participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48162	How? Any further involvement in the debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48164	I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. Continuing at 10 o'clock, or 9 and 56. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we move on. She's done a 10-minute break. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48166	... MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] It seems to me that already somewhere in the sixth hour that we are discussing the state budget, and it is absolutely the most important document that a Parliament brings in the course of the year and the most important document in the country, and therefore we believe that the atmosphere in which such an important document is being debated is absolutely unacceptable. For the full 6 hours we have suffered insults, throws, play music at a time when someone is speaking, even we have opportunities by some MPs to hear and not only offensive things, but also proscrations. Unfortunately, this is a matter of culture and the decency of individual representatives who behave accordingly. However, it is inadmissible when once inappropriate communication in this House is used by representatives of the government. It can't be said that someone's crazy, that he's lying, that you can just tell him that he's not telling the truth, that it can be corrected in this House, and it's perfectly normal for this House to have countless replicas, countless corrections of incorrect allegations, conflict of opinion, but without insult and without labelling. What is the government's obligation under the Rules of Procedure? I will quote Article 109(2), which says: "The Prime Minister present to the Assembly and the Parliament's working bodies participates in their work, represents the views of the Government, gives notices and expert explanations, states about the amendments submitted if it is authorised to do so, and informs the Government of the positions and opinions of the Parliament, i.e. the working bodies", and does not say anywhere that the minister is allowed in this House to insult the MPs and speak to political views. So, comment, that's right. He must present the government's views here and provide information and expert explanations. After what he said, Mr. Shucker realized that he was wrong, came out, got enough power and showed his decency, apologized to his colleague Linic. Unfortunately, Minister Roncevic did not have the strength to go outside to apologize to counterpart Antunovic, who he also labelled and said that the defence ministry had acted as if it were her private toy. Finally, in front of the SDP club, I'd just like to say something. No matter how many representatives there are in this hall, each of us gentlemen has his own electoral body behind him. As you are allowed to fight for your electoral body and make their stand, allow us, too, to speak for our electoral body and to speak for what our voters ask us to do whether you like it or not. Because of all that we have heard so far in this Chamber on behalf of the SDP Club, I ask the chairman to stick to the Rules of Procedure, to warn every time a representative of the Government jumps out of these powers from the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and I would ask him to do all he can to court certain MPs who spend all day dusting insults, proscals and inappropriate speeches in this assembly. As far as I can tell, they say the MPs are allowed to each other, but according to the Rules of Procedure, the people of the government are not, therefore we are asking that a rhetoric similar to the highest legislative body in this country be finally introduced in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48167	As for a reminder or a reference to a tolerable dialogue and debate, I think it was also in the case of Minister Shuker at the same time reacted, and Mr Schuker immediately requested as you heard an apology, but what anyone implies by insult is a very relative term, or complex, because we also heard inappropriate statements about the Prime Minister and ministers. I agree that it is the duty of the ministers and representatives of the government to treat parliamentarians correctly, within the limits of fair play and decency, I also expect from each representative and vice versa. I'm an opinion, and as far as you're going to listen to me, I don't know that discussions can also be justified and fiercely conducted without the use of inappropriate expressions, because the use of inappropriate expressions is actually a lack of arguments. This means when someone reacts harshly or inappropriately that it is because there is not enough arguments and does not strengthen their position by inappropriate expressions. It applies to everyone, and I think that's actually it. What's... Immoderation more, the argument is weaker, and that's why I think we're going back to normal frameworks of debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She was never too gentle when it came to the budget, neither this party nor she was in power. All you have to do is remember and admit everything that's happened in the past. I therefore accept as a well-intentioned SDP proposal to continue the tolerance debate at this Parliament on the state budget and on everything else and that in some ways we all refrain from unmoderate qualifications and labels or insults and so forth. Let's move on. For his word he had called earlier, but he couldn't get the chance of health minister Mr. Ljubicic, so now we're giving him a chance of a few minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, it is small hours. Here's what I'm hearing about questions about culture, dignity, the dignity of individuals, and I'm just wondering why we don't mention the truth, the arguments. Somehow it seems to me that truth and arguments are something that should not be spoken only has an electoral body, but on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48169	Please, why are you throwing? There's no throwing. The minister doesn't tell you anything. Calm down. The minister speaks perfectly clearly, you have no right to throw away. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I heard constantly here that you don't invest in welfare centers, in homes within the social system. Well, it's a very simple table that actually contains one letter "k" which means capital investment where the socialist writes. It's very easy to calculate that from this year's 83 million we increased it to 93 million. The difference is 10 million kuna, so 10 million kuna more for capital investments in the social sector, but not only that. Well, now we're counting again. In 2007, 172 million. That's not how much was invested in 2000 to 2003 together times 2. Then we have 186 million in 2008. So a beautiful order that actually shows what will be invested inside, and believe me, there's not one county, so I'm going to say any local self-government in which it won't actually invest in a segment of the social sector, and that's what I have to admit for the first time in years, literally, all the social care users in which the obscenities of old castles and so on. where, for the first time, those people who have dignity will come to the right and the quality of the space. I've also listened, and I'm sorry that there aren't actually any who are directly from Osijek or so there, and the mayor first. It's true, this was nice to hear from the Clinical Hospital Center of Osijek, which I think will be a great joy for the Emotional maybe some perspective. It's about the Clinical Hospital of Osijek. At Osijek Clinical Hospital, ladies and gentlemen, this year we invest a total of 33 million kuna. It's a huge investment. And into what? We don't put our minds together like we used to, but we have a program, and when we talk about reform, it's easy to read. What do we propose in reform? Well, we're just proposing what's missing from Croatia right now and that's a network of cardio surgery. Just for information that 4000 citizens in Croatia are currently waiting for a cardio-surgery procedure, a thousand can accomplish this annually. If it's a reform, I'll leave it to you to consider. In addition to cardiac surgery, we end the oncology programme also other significant epidemiological things in the Republic of Croatia. All of this is worth 33 million kuna in order to be fully operational. The esteemed representative Caparin said nicely about Bjelovar. Right, we're gone. We looked at Belovar. We encouraged what was said only before but we encouraged, made, goes the project. Project documentation must be drawn up. It must therefore be given what will be done at a specified time, for if not done, it cannot be done. A proper dynamic is needed and this dynamic needs to be resolved. Again, it doesn't matter what happens, it matters what they propose. Why? Because we need to know exactly what we're doing, how that hospital will be conceived. I'm glad that's why it's mentioned, and that's that we're doing accreditation and categorization. Right, this government has had the courage to deal with such a large and significant project after many years, which is accreditation and categorization. And we'll do it, just like we'll do many other things and you'll be witnesses. Finally, I actually heard something else and it's just another addition to Belovar. Bjelovar is being funded legally. It is financed from its own incomes, decentralised funds and my proposal was that this was also the part of the town of Bjelovar which I think is actually normal and thus tripartitely providing funds for project documentation. And I think everyone will actually support it, and the county but also the city. And finally, just one, two words because I've heard and I don't want to be overextended, about islands that we've reduced investment. And the investments are almost 100% higher, from 6 million to 10 million without what the WE2-CEB says. This is one handsome shortcut for something called Council of Europe 2, the second loan of the Council of Europe, and we're actually out of it for areas of special concern. So there are, of course, islands among them. It's very easy to read the same thing inside, and it's still very large amounts that actually count in two digits. So it is clear, in fact, that the islands will by no means be cut off. However, the islands will now get their homes back to health, they will get the quality they had before. And not only that, we're doing telemedicine. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to cheer you all up together that very telemedicine project in January and get a big international recognition, one big international award. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48171	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48172	It is an incorrect quote by Minister Ljubicic, for the third time today. So the item of island development, the development of Adriatic islands in minus 60 million compared to what it was before. It's an incorrect quote about social investment as well. The minister is talking about futurism. What's going to happen in 2007, I don't really know. I can trust you and I don't have to, but who knows who's gonna be in charge. But from what's going to be in this budget, it says protection of military and civilian disability wars minus 16 million, rights from the welfare system minus 20 million compared to the previous year, compensation for assistance and care minus 48 million, total minus 84 million in these three items of social care alone. So you decide whether you give it or take it. This is where you take it, and you claim it the other way around.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48173	Dear representative Zeljka Antunovic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48174	A few short corrections to an incorrect quote. It is incorrect that at the time of the coalition government, it was invested in health facilities by heart. On the contrary, it was invested in accordance with the projects and in line with the general project of health reform, which also includes investment in health institutions. It is also incorrect that this government, today's government, first engaged in a hospital accreditation project as one of the health reform steps. It is true that the accreditation project was created by the expert group of the Croatian Medical Chamber, presented to the Ministry of Health of the Government who did not accept it, but commissioned and additionally paid from the funds the true god of non-taxable taxpayers, and paid for something that had already been completed. It is true that money is spent, not according to priorities, but according to some different interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48175	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48176	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, members of the government! A little bit about education and science. In each area, so the education and sciences of beautiful words and plans declared by the Government at the time of the adoption of the state budget should be justified and subject to concrete figures, because precisely and only figures from the budget and not beautiful words clearly point to the priorities and work programme of the Government. However, whether this draft budget is in line with the declared declarations. I think the best answer was given by employers when they claimed that Prime Minister Sanader's main concern was not how to solve the accumulated economic problems but how to enhance reality. This is the way Prime Minister Sanader goes when he argues that a significant step has been made in raising funds for education and science in this budget. And it's clear to the layman that this is about a lot of drinkers and just as much concealment of facts. No one in Croatia is wise today to question the fact that the poor qualifications structure of the population, and I think we all agree that the strategic task of all is to improve it and thus train people for complex processes of production of new values based on companies based on knowledge and the creation of a knowledge society. That attitude is also declared by the Croatian government. However, the Government, in addition to the declaration, has an obligation to make concrete decisions but to test its own credibility right on the budget. Accordingly, since Croatia is lagging behind in financing education and science, additional financial efforts were needed to start reaching members of the European Union. It is generally known that the growth of the budget of at least 10% per year may only lead us to the degree of separation that was set out by members of the European Union in 2002 for education and science. For example, in 2004, Slovenia increased the science budget by 24% and for technology by as much as 67%. How's Croatia? It is true that the budget for education, science and sport is growing in this budget by 6.58% and the prime minister himself in the opening presentation presenting this budget highlighted that fact. But the prime minister forgot to highlight each other's fact and that is that the budget itself in the globally grows at a rate of 6.56% so that the mass of education separation represents only nominal and not real growth of funds for education and science. The matter becomes even more tragic for science and education if we know that only three ministries in this country are growing smaller than the growth foreseen for the Ministry of Education. It is almost amazing that our government representatives are flaunted by increased investment in education and science despite the fact that more than 2/3 of the ministries, that all central government offices except the Property Management Office, and the government itself is growing higher than the Ministry of Education, which is 6.55%. Another confirmation that it is a good PR rather than a real state that is not even the least spectacular that some newspaper inscriptions want to display. For example, this evening or late afternoon, a meeting of the rectorial assembly was held where the rectors of all Croatian universities claimed that they expected a growth of at least 10% and that it would be desirable for that growth to be 15%. If the government has already disobeyed the demands of MPs, I'm surprised that the government is deafening the demands of the rectorial assembly. But if we follow the trend, last year's funding for education and science increased by 8.03%. Now it is increasing by 6.58% and this trend of reducing the share of funds for education and science would be consistent with the projections we received for 2007 and 2008 incredibly but truly should continue and should be continued, as only 1.5% is predicted. Fellow Members and colleagues, respected ministers, respected state secretaries, such a dynamic for the separation of science and education not only does not ensure progress, however good we are in the PR, but even in the most creative fantasies it cannot turn into development. Another confirmation of the thesis that many colleagues here today have said is that the budget is bureaucratic and without any developmental solutions. It's a terrible thing for me personally. This reduction in the trend of increasing investment in science and education, as this reduction does not only guarantee the development and investment and achievement of Europe but rather the opposite. It increases the gap between us and them. They're going to say what's going on in education and science? Well, they got an increase of 6.5%. This increase is no step at all, and at least the strategic shift we need. If we look at the structure a little bit, we see that the funds in the regular activity so the funds for primary, secondary and higher education only increase by 3.11%), and on the other hand the costs of the administration rise by 17.15% even though the merger of the ministries was expected to reduce the costs of the administration. These funds for the administration rose in just two years from $34.6 million to nearly incredible 90.6 million. I don't think there should be some super mathematician to conclude that the share of investment for science and education in this budget is shrinking. And as we know, and we know that the vast majority of government resolutions have larger increases in resources than science and education, it is not difficult to conclude that despite the announcements and despite the declarations of education and science, it has been badly passed in this National Budget Proposal. This is bad and I mean the completely wrong policy of this government because it is already here that only an increase of 10% a year may lead us to Europe and maybe it can reduce the gap between Croatia and Europe and be a guarantee of development. Some items are more debated by the amendments. Now just a few details. For Croatia, it is devastating that the funds for the salaries of high school teachers and primary school teachers remain almost the same because the increase in the total amount of funds for salaries is about 4%, which is closely followed by inflation. This means that there will be no salary increases for teachers and teachers and that the salaries of those groups of highly educated citizens of our country who are already lagging around 15% behind other salaries of higher education people in public services will continue to lag behind. Personally, I am quite certain that we are not such a rich country and that Croatia is not such a developed country that we should allow ourselves the luxury of further decaying social status of educators. This Budget also reduces the resources to equip school libraries with books. What we now have in the budget is only 2/3 of the funds we had in 2004, and I remind you that we have abolished all the funds for this purpose for 2005. For example, by 11%, the funds for the professional training of teachers in secondary schools are reduced. As far as science and technology and higher education are concerned, the nominal increase in the budget if the reader had more direction and read the structure of the budget is not a guarantee that necessary but urgent reform as well as for the Croatian economy, the necessary steps will indeed be done, but it is absolutely certain that this will not be done without the insurance and continuous increase of the reform funds. That, unfortunately, is not the case in this proposal. In addition, the 2006 Budget Proposal reduces about 20% of the funding to develop knowledge-based small and medium-sized companies. By about 35%, we reduce funding for technology and research development projects. By 20% compared to 2003, we reduce funding for scholarships and scientific training of graduates. There are such items yet. For example, we completely abolish the grants from the budget from the chapter of scientific and research activities for the National Foundation for Science and Technology Development. Such a policy is for a country that tends to be based on knowledge and that in human potential sees one of the fundamental capital completely inappropriate and destructive. And that's why this budget is not and can't be a development. Because of all of this, because of the policy defined in this Budget, which ignores more significant steps in science, technology and education and is satisfied, as a colleague told me on the Committee on Education "real frameworks to be respected" because of the neglect of these important development hotspots which, not only do you not run Croatia, are you stopping and lagging behind Europe, you are actually destroying it, and I will not be able to vote for this Budget proposal. In the end, a saying says, "If we want to stand in place, we have to run. If we want to make progress, we have to run faster than others." We respected colleagues and colleagues not only run faster than others but our race slowly turns into one step back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48177	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Lugarić argued that education, that education and science went badly in this year's budget, which is not true because education and science went best of all ministries in this budget and 7% higher, is harder to budget for, for science and education this year, and this is a clear commitment by the Croatian Government to Croatia's development based on knowledge. And as for the separation of science and comparisons with other countries in Europe, it is certain that it takes Croatia a few more years to get those investments in Europe because they did not have direct damages from the war that they feel today in this budget and which is difficult 5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48179	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48180	Dear Mr. President Bekavac has injured Article 209(4). The Rules of Procedure, which has been amended in Article 5 of the Amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which says, "The MP may correct the incorrect statement of the facts presented." In fact, they say that, for example, MORH funds increase by 14%, for the Ministry of the Family, defenders by 9%, for the economy 7%, for culture by 22%, for healthcare 8%, and so on, more than education and science as well as injured Article 209(2). As in his speech, the Rules of Procedure did not limit himself to correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48181	Representative Emil Tomljanović is strictly and precisely Bekavac strictly and accurately restricted to correcting the incorrect allegations, a factual correction of an incorrect allegation, challenged your factual claims, and you violated the Rules of Procedure, I'll give you a notice for breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Mr. Bekavac.]] The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48182	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48183	When a colleague throws himself at you incessantly seeking justice and peace, and they keep coming from this side of distraction and throw away, they're breaking into the debates of the MPs and then you're protesting and seeking protection if it's happening to you. And now you're doing it, right now. ... Right now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I guess I hear what everyone else hears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48184	Mr. President. The esteemed representative said the incorrect quote: "In the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports there was a reduction in investment.", that is simply not true and she spoke in relation to the full item of the budget. And I'm about the total ministry, and I'm misaligning that with those items in the share of the reduction budget itself. I am correcting this incorrect fact that my colleague said there was a reduction in investment, because she herself said that investment was increased and that is important, by a amount of 6.58% compared to 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48185	State Secretary, Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48186	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. Allow just a few notes after the debate of the respected representative Lugarić. I must remind you that compared to 2003, if we will follow the rise in the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports compared to those of the two ministries that existed then, it is the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Science and Technology, with 7 billion and 800 growing to this amount, which is about 25% compared to 2003. Of course, we are pleased that you Madam MPs want that budget to be even bigger and we will, of course, do everything to do in the coming years as well, if not more budget for education and science is growing. Furthermore, you said that there was not enough funding for higher education and that it was established at a session of the rector's choir. I'll just remind you that in 2003 high education amounted to billions and 4 hundred million kuna, and now that amount is nearly 2 billion kuna and 200 million kuna, so for the budget that followed 2 years later. In particular, in this year's 120 million more, but I have to say, by redistributing it, we've secured 26 million kunas this year. In particular, over 30% of them have increased spending on the material costs that we have provided. You also talked about professional training that it was less than it was so far. Professional training in both primary and secondary education, therefore both due to the Croatian national educational standard and to the introduction of an external evaluation of education, as well as to the state's graduation, and because of changes in vocational education, has been allocated to 4 items. It refers to the training of teachers, the training of teachers, and the training of directors. When all the items are summed up we have 13 and a half million kunas more than last year. So, despite what was mentioned earlier in the debate, despite the patching of some holes, there are, of course, 2001, and 2002 in significant amounts measured hundreds of millions of kunas, we are also going with new projects from the Croatian national educational standard in primary education through external evaluation, state graduation, change in vocational education in secondary education and the Bologna process in higher education. So all these projects go and all these projects are provided money as much as it is necessary in 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48187	Correction of the incorrect alleged, respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48188	Mr. Secretary of State said the government would do everything possible to ensure that the budget for education and science is growing, they are denying their own document, so budget projections predicting that the 2007 budget for education and science will grow at a rate of 1.62% and in 2008 at a rate of 1.42%. And on top of that, as far as this allegation is concerned, that is, correcting my claim about the professional training of secondary schooling by saying that it's incorrect, I've only told teachers of high schools that really reduce funds by 11 million kuna. I didn't say anything about primary school teachers and principals because there's nothing wrong with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48189	Honorable representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48190	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary and the rest of the government. I am well-intentioned, let's not fool ourselves because everyone is ultimately being deceived, that we have a planned economic strategy in Croatia. By the way, the strategy is a term from other professions, and in the economy, it means nothing. What we really need is a concept of objectives, selection of priorities, national interests and how we will protect them and achieve structural development policy, industrial policy, regional policy, and economic policy and budget as an instrument of achievement. The budget is then discussed in fact about the development of state and development policy. Today they do all the advanced countries, make plans in six years and bring in so-called. National development plans bring annual plans, so-called employment plans. I first saw that truth reproved too much in Helsinki at the University of '97. the year when not only was the plan a rebuked book but it became a social and political contract and agreed that Finland would come from the crisis. It was until '96. in a major crisis. It's been eight years. Finland has become an example in the world as it can pop out, move out. Of course, there should be a simple idea, a plan, a program, a way to do it. What do we have today like Finland, then what are we going to do to Croatia for a few? Unfortunately, we don't have that and let's not fool ourselves. These advanced countries today are making their medium-term plans, an example of new Ireland's new 8 agencies that will serve development, development management. They bring social contracts and reach a national consensus on how... Something that's hard, where everyone has to put up with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But then they agree that everyone can benefit from it. It's the only way the state can make it. We don't have it and let's not fool ourselves. And that's too bad, actually. Then we'd argue differently about everything else. I was actually going to warn you about a question, a few questions about how far I get. One thing's definitely foreign debt. The total foreign debt of course, along with the debt of the state, also constitutes the debts of banks, financial corporations, corporate sector of wider financial institutions, etc. The debt also rose to 19.8 billion euros by December 2003. Of course, he also served to solve the indifference you remember. No one paid anyone, interest is 15% per month, etc., but for development, road infrastructure and everything else. Now we often hear the formulations, the debt slows down, it's long, it's less dynamic, it's growing slower, etc. In fact, the problem of debt in Croatia is relatively relatively today, and that is not good. Please, it's a debt, the total foreign debt in 2004 increased from $24.7 to $30.9 billion within a year, so more than 6 billion in one year. Look at that 19.8 billion-euro debt from December 2003, it was the National Bank's newsletter, which amounted to over 24 billion euros in the 8th month of this year. Gentlemen, in one year and 8 months, the total foreign debt in Croatia has increased 4.2 billion euros. If that rate rises by 4 years, more than 10 billion euros will rise. Let it not grow so much, but it is now at a level that is seriously alerted and let us not hide behind it, the debt grows slower, its dynamics are smaller, it is not the problem etc. He's absolutely very big, getting bigger. It grew in a year and eight months 4.2 billion euros. In the last year and eight months, and at the same time look at, of course, it's not just a debt of a state like I said, it's grown internal debt of a central state. The minister also said here, the government's borrowing was a major injection into the development of the capital market and something else, etc. 15 months ago, it couldn't have been imagined. The truth that this situation would have taken place must have been done much since that time of indifference, etc. It also contributed to that historic benchmark interest rates, but gentlemen borrowing the country abroad on the domestic market, less abroad, which is politics now. Because in all modern economy models from Fischer to Dorbisch is simply something that is called "calding out" worldwide and that means an attractive suck out of that pot which is limited amounts of certain money and spends it for its purposes, it can then not be in the economy, in entrepreneurship, somewhere else. That is why it warns of the problem of borrowing, although it is certainly better to be in charge at home when we can. Of course, it couldn't have been dreamed of in 2000, but conditions were created in the meantime. By the way, our country's short-term borrowing has grown very much. In December 2003, it was about 8 billion as I recall, Kuna. After a year and five months, after a year and three months, so in March this year, I don't have any later data, you short-term debt, vault record and the rest that's the most expensive debt of 8 billion in a year and three months has grown to $15 billion, forgive the kuna. These are all issues that seriously require that we continue to take care of the debt problem more than the share of the deficits of the consolidated general government in the aftermath and as what part of the debt is well recruited increased in us from 52 to 54, about 1 point a year. It's not good if it goes on like that. And, of course, interest payments. The repayment of foreign debt interest already takes more than half of what we achieve with the growth of the GDP and it limits development and any other possibilities. And now it's important that in this situation where debt is growing, we are doing developmental work. I think that in development because I argue we do not actually have a development plan or a design concept, we have not sharpened Croatia's priorities enough. In order for us to do what we have to do, we need to know what the priority is and put everything else into another plan. Priority should be employment. I don't think we have enough in the employment budget. After all, watch how much I know the plan for the 2005 budget would provide 172 million for employment. What is provided for 2006 is less than that. Keep looking. Over the past four years, 12 billion kunas have been turned over by the Pecek Ministry for small and medium-sized enterprises. What's it like in the last year or two? And I have to mention the irrigation. Allegation is secured on the 16th or nothing in the next year. At the same time, Europe is launching the Danube project. How are we going to get involved in this? How are we even involved in the use of European funds, etc? For regional policy which means non-regionalism and politics ala Osijek etc. Who needs more, but he needs Lici, and Bani, and Kordun, and the islands, and all the others, and what now. For this policy, the Regional Development Fund was to be mobilised to a good extent, to draw funds from Europe. We don't do any of that. This fund is at a constant level of 120-130 million kuna, and you can't objectively do anything with more equal government development policies, either in this budget. I'm sorry about education and science, Mr. Secretary of State was here, a little more invested, but that's not enough. This is the priority of such a species, for example, that Ireland is in its six-year plan, which it has, of course, smartly adopted, it plans 52 billion euros for science, education and ecology. So, gentlemen from the government and the Croatian Parliament, how do you think someone's gonna get to Europe? You don't have priorities, and those priorities aren't focused on enough money. I warn, debt and total finances still need to be carefully monitored, but at the same time significantly different, trying to come up with a policy to make some breakthrough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48191	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Josi Sakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48192	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, it is an incorrect allegation that from the Pecek Ministry many millions have entered the development of the economy and entrepreneurship is already a total autopsy, these effects are actually flat zero. We can stress that the ministry has gone to missed investments to build a parking lot near health clinics or for entrepreneurs' incubators in which they have hatched, unfortunately, rotten eggs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48193	Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48194	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Today, listening to the debate, I have to say, I'm a little surprised. No euphoria, no pleasure on the proposal. However, I was worried by the invitation of Minister Shuker, but gentlemen, 72% of our budget is pensions, health care and wages. Yell. And the man behind that when he listens like that, he asks himself, and what does that offer us for the third year of the government's term? What this offers us if it really is true that we spend the main budget, and we are dissatisfied with the situation in both the pension system and in the health and public sector and pay problems, whether we see reforms in the third year of the government's mandate. We don't see any reforms. We don't see them in health care, not in the pension system, not in the administration, and I'd say in public sector cost. We don't see them. Three years' term of office. And of course, without these reforms that are responsible for our future, which will be a huge burden on us because we do not carry them out in negotiations with the European Union, we will be burdened because we will be the foreign negotiating table that has no justification. It's hard to find an excuse when 50% of the total social product you spend, and you have reforms ahead of you. And of course, aware that without reform, the 4th year of this term stands out because in the last year, no one goes into reform, everyone flees from reforms. Therefore, it is difficult to expect the government in the pre-election year, the 4th. In 2007, he was able to propose any serious reform. But not just because it's the last year, but by looking at this budget and projections for the 7th and 8th years that we can still estimate. Reforms will be carried out through this government on the burden of taxpayers. And that's why we don't have reforms because it's much easier to implement reforms if we have development funds, from economic growth. Because when we have growth, when we have simply something that strengthens the overall social product of that moment, part of the resources can be invested in development. Or if we already have so many structural problems in the economy should we use someone else's accumulation to implement reforms? You should. But then the problem is the deficit. Of course, with projections that the deficit will be 3%, which means we refuse to use other people's funds for these reforms. Without development, without the rate of growth and without other people's accumulation, we say, it will be on the back of our taxpayers, on the back of our citizens. And of course, they're real budget problems. It's something we're expected to try to talk about at that level, especially if we really hear that in the last two, three days, the Minister of Shuker's uninterrupted, but 72% are just 3 items. Only 3 items, 3 items that we have not prepared quality reforms. And of course, that's where the hardest answer is in front of all of us. A message to the unemployed. 300 thousand people who are unemployed, without a growth rate, have no new jobs. Without new jobs, there is no way in the future for your employment because we have reforms ahead of us. We have reforms ahead of us, and without a simple investment, it's impossible. Now let's try to answer and is this growth rate that we're talking about so much possible? And the answer is that without affecting the deficit. Because as the minister said, we don't have railways in the state deficit. We don't need INA in the state deficit. There's no need for HT to be in the state deficit, no need for HEP to be in the state deficit, no need for the water industry to be in the state deficit. Have we heard from the introductions today anything about investments in 2006 from these state-owned companies that can certainly raise at least 1% of economic growth, but with constant pressures to seriously enter investment projects? Yeah, INA had to finish two refineries by the end of next year. Neither Sisak nor Rijeka began. She had to end up as planned, according to the documents, by the money, by the accumulation she had achieved, and preferably by borrowing. No project started. HEP. We're talking about the problem that there's no export product and there's too much import. What's too much import? Energy, the strongest item. We're importing energy raw materials. And why aren't we exporting them? Why don't we have one thermo power plant, why don't we have one hydropower plant? Third year of office with this budget, third year. Where are the announcements of two new power plants needed by Croatia? In order to have a secure and stable source of electricity and to export electricity, we increase our exports with energy that is safe for both the quality of the charge and the income. We don't have that, we don't have ambition, we don't have enough government pressure on these companies. The water industry, so what's the problem in a year is that it finishes the irrigation project. Water can be borrowed, is not a burden on the state budget, is not a burden on the deficit. But no, we don't have those projects. Our water industry doesn't want to invest, there's no such ambition. Where are your problems? Third year of office, third year of office, yes. HT. Why is he not investing in young companies, in capable companies, in Croatian entrepreneurs? And because the dividend was spent. With the need of money, we spent the dividend and demanded that Deutsch Telekom do the same to draw money, not to invest it in Croatia. Yeah, that's our problem, that's our problem. Only these 4 segments that are resources, 1% of the growth rate is at least without impact on the deficit. Something bigger because they don't have enough accumulations if we want to speed it up, but we didn't want to. And based on the administrative development projects of these companies private capital, private companies, private entrepreneurship would invest in Croatia. They'd raise their investments. What are we doing like this? We're making them pull out their dividends. They don't see the perspective, they don't see the government's idea at all. These are our problems, and that's why 300,000 unemployed, that's our future. That's our future. The money for reforms will be paid by taxpayers because the development will not give it up and of course we're talking about something else. When we add up together, we can't forget two things yet. And that's a railroad that's not only important because of the railway infrastructure, because of the transit, because of the foreign exchange. It's our river and seaport that's the problem. Without investment in that system, we will also lose the transport of goods through ports, and these are services again. Our prime minister speaks of tourism as services, and what about transit services, with transport services that we can certainly proceed through a foreign exchange inflow entering the foreign exchange balance. No, we're not thinking because it's hard to find a way to restructure and modernise the railroads. Did we open the shipbuilding issue? Why must negotiations with the European Union begin to open the story of how to close a billion dollars of losses in shipbuilding? Gentlemen, 3rd year of office, a billion dollars in shipbuilding deficits. What is the fate of shipbuilding? Did we open that question today for the third year of office? We didn't. When do we open it? At the age of four? No way, it's the election. And we'll wait again for someone to force us to talk like this. So as you can see, there's no development, we're reducing the deficit to 3%. I mean, I predict, I realize we're not gonna make it. I didn't say nearly a billion kunas less money in HAC investments that you can see. Then what do you say? Then what do you say next? It's just... It's... It's just... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's We are offered conflicts with unions, conflicts with opposition, conflicts with science, but we will have a hard time resolving reforms with conflicts and no funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48195	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48196	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48197	My colleague can't hear you. You're speaking in the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48198	He also said that there is no investment in the water industry either, so I would point out here that the East Slavonia water line is projected to invest 15 million kuna, and I must say that this project has been completely stopped in the past period.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48199	Second correction, respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48200	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here I am correcting Mr. Linic's incorrect allegations that he has claimed there are no new power plants. There is. The Lesce hydropower plant, the Sisak thermal power plant, is investing 200m euros. He's got investments, but he's got to recognize them and recognize them. It would certainly be very good if there were more, but the facts are that there are important infrastructure, energy facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48201	Replica, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48202	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Linic brought up some of the thesis.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48203	A little louder, you can't hear a colleague named Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48204	To welcome that he is thinking in a way that we should use our own battery and that is good and safe in that sense and the state budget should be, and I think he showed some elements that he is also counting on. But he also said he does not see reform. So pension, healthcare and salary is a practical fixed cost that the state budget still has a task covered. So he must provide funds to make these systems work, but the reform itself must not be fooled that it will solve the problem. We cannot reform or reduce the number of pensioners, nor in any way increase their resources, the second pillar is therefore created in some way, hoping that it will create this additional increase in resources, but it is still questionable and we will see the results when that 20-year period is carried out whether it will be exactly how it is imagined. Therefore, we should not fool ourselves if we have reforms that will solve the problem. We will solve the problem if we create a bigger battery, so if we create new products only new products are a guarantee that we will have a market and then we will achieve positive economic results. However, in his debate, he returned to the tendency to in some way reject other people's funds. So that theory that development is based on deficits. I'm kind of not an economist, but I can't quite understand it, and I can't accept it, I don't think it's good, because our debts can't be accumulated indefinitely and based on that development.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48205	Thank you. Replicate reply, respected representative Stjepan Linic. Thank you very much. Well, please take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48206	What I meant to say was that reforms cost money, that it needs money for reforms. Health reform will take a lot of money, because only by cutting, limiting and new imposing on patients will we not solve health care. We also need money for pension reform, because we said that the differences between pensioners are simply the start of the pension Corps and we need reforms, and we don't want to talk about further pillars of pension financial transactions and then the basic one, management is a special project that the government has already concluded with the World Bank, which you will cost, because management is not just a quality salary, quality when it is a completely different profile of people who will be turned to entrepreneurs and the economy. All that takes money and the answer is where to find the money. It needs to be found in development, and it is not a problem for INA to be in charge because it has its own income and can repay loans, if the INA projects are in just two refineries of $800 million and if they do not currently have it can be borrowed. HEP can also be in debt and go vigorously into building two power plants, because there are funds to be returned, it does not return from the budget, it does not return from the deficit, because it is common, and with such development we are opening jobs, we are hiring another 30, 40 thousand inhabitants, and then it is possible to find money in the reform resolution budget. So we're talking about not going through reforms, because there's no money. How to find money only in responsible development policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48207	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48208	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, is it true that the INA, HEP and other companies can be debted as much as they want? It just isn't. Why? Because in the evaluations of all international financial institutions, one of the main problems of the Republic of Croatia has highlighted a high share of external debt in the gross domestic product and if this debt does not stabilise the credibility of the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia will be poor. Not someone said that we, with 82, 83% participation in the gross domestic product of external duty because he does not like that we would not be in debt outside, but for the simple reason that this borrowing increases the external exposure of the Republic of Croatia and is simply not true. It's easy to talk from a position when you don't have the responsibility, let them take all the time they want. That's just not true. But I'd like to tell you something else. In 2003, the state, businesses, citizens owed $9 billion and so much has increased the external debt of the Republic of Croatia in 2003. With huge investments in road construction, economic growth was only 5%. I'm talking about duty, although if we're looking at economics, it was a great 5%, so depending on which aspect we're looking at. Talk about INA not doing anything, so it's not INA from today. The problem of the Sisak refinery and the problem of the river refinery has been standing for a long time. The problem of INA today is that oil, in fact oil derivatives from the Rijeka and Sisak refineries can only be sold practically in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and nowhere else. Why didn't INA go into the modernisation project four and five years ago, and today it was close to the project, because it's real looking at a project that lasts 4, 5 years, not because it can't be financed, but simply because technology can't be done. HH, so it's always said that we've stopped modernising the railroads. Let's compose the data in 2003, 2006. Today, the position of the state budget is a billion and 600 million more for the railways than it was in 2003. With the introduction of those 60 limes, that would be a billion 300 billion more, not a billion 600 as it is today. So the government has provided funds from other sources for the development of Croatian railways. However, whether the deficit policy in the development function is correct. Another problem that the European Commission is telling us. After all, you signed the SAA, not signed by this government. This SAA clearly speaks of certain tax steps that will have to be taken to which you are complaining to us today. And there's also something about the SAA about fiscal policy and something like that. Therefore, we are also clearly advised today from the European Commission and all international financial institutions if we are unable to make fiscal adjustment means that we are unable to conduct economic policy independently. And let's not kid ourselves that when we say that the deficit of 4 or 5% leads us to some big development. However, the question arises how much that deficit costs. Only interest on 1% of the deficit is annually around 140-150 million kuna, only interest. And it's not true that the deficit. So you had a deficit of 6.3, you had a 9 billion-dollar debt, you had an economic growth of 5.3. These are the results of the 2003 policy and a bunch of unpaid bills. So that's it. Today, have we undertaken certain reforms. So do you think the World Bank would sign a PAL1, choir 15.9., make a decision about accepting PAL1 if the government hadn't implemented certain structural reforms. Unlike the former PAL programmes, the funds are approved following the implementation of the previous criteria. So 150m euros in loans from the World Bank, Croatia was given on the basis of structural reforms. Structural reforms are something that is constantly being implemented. They can't be spent during just one government period and then gardens, no more. So if you had implemented certain structural reforms, if you had made fiscal adjustments, I wouldn't have had to... It happens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't mean to talk about Victor Lance today. However, I ask the question of how much the activation of the guarantees for the "Viktor Lenac" cost the Croatian state, how much it cost Croatian citizens, how much Croatian businessmen were left without less money to invest the economy in the name of the activated guarantees "Vicor Lenca", how many unemployed Rijeka were left without a job after the bankruptcy in "Viktor Lenc", how many thousands of co-operatives were left, etc. That's not what we're talking about. But calling someone unfounded is another pair of shoes. How much today the state budget costs unpaid regresses, unpaid Christmases and unpaid children's gift in 2001, which was signed in stand by arrangement, is not negotiated with trade unions but therefore the annual budget costs 200-300 million kuna. If those 200-300 million kunas didn't have them, maybe they could invest it in education, health care, economic development, agriculture. How much does it cost to pay off your shift? Last year, 170 million. Now, he wasn't yelling. I am not a man who directs a cry, especially to those who will not help him. It was only a realistic finding of something to determine how much certain legal provisions voted in this House are today valuable in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. This cannot change either SDP or HDZ. These are the laws that are there. We can't say that we won't index pensions to the pensioners, we can't because we passed a law saying that these pensions will be indexed anyway. Whether or not someone agrees or disagrees on this, we can discuss it but at this point the law is in force and we must therefore provide the means to do so. The funds for salaries employed by the state administration are simply so large and all other obligations signed by collective agreements. The government has decided to raise the 3% base next year and has secured an additional 900 million kuna on behalf of it. Health funds, it's prescribed by law. We're talking here today about the government in the budget not providing funds for county hospitals, and at the same time the minister says that health care is 72%, then it's a cry, impotence or so on. So he was neither cry nor infirm, nor anything. It's growing. Is there a big difference between 4 and 4.2? It's not. They're just shades. However, what is evident is that Croatia has not found a consistent path over the past six, seven years that will guarantee more significant economic growth. And what I'm going to say on behalf of this government right now. The model by which you've had an economic growth of 4, so 5 and 4 hop cups, is simply a spent model up there. And today we say that without reforms, there is no more significant economic growth to be expected. Without creating a more positive climate for foreign investors, without reforming the judiciary that will guarantee legal certainty for investors because when we talk about Slovakia, counterpart Mikluss, the Slovak Finance Minister, made it clear. In the first seven conditions, there are no financial conditions when it comes to Slovakia being interested in foreign investors. So it's all about our reality. Nothing can change overnight. And I'd like to say one more thing. This budget is 17 billion more than that in 2003. Let's take inflation all together, so with a budget that 17 billion was smaller, anything could have been done. It could have been phenomenal economic growth, met all the social needs, the satisfaction of the pensioners and everyone else, and with a budget of 17 billion, there's nothing we can do that's bigger than 17 billion. The thing is, in this government, no one has ever challenged what the previous government has done well. But also, you can't accept what we're hearing here today is literally nothing. And the statement by the distinguished representative, Mr. Tomcic, who responded to the OSCE's assessment of when they positively assessed macroeconomic developments in Croatia best shows that how we think about certain things. Well, the normal thing, if anyone sees that in the second quarter, economic growth is 5.1, that in the third quarter, economic growth is 5%, that for six, seven months, virtually the largest growth in industrial production has been continued in the last few years and industrial production growth is the only guarantee of long-term economic growth. And if someone therefore brings some kind of opinion that Croatia has progressed there, it is not good. If Croatia and you will see this in a decade from the European Investment Bank for the construction of the second highway route Zagreb-Rijeka under the conditions under which the Member States of the European Union receive it, believe me, such credit is not given to a country that has the economic situation that you are talking about. No one's going to give anyone the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48209	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48210	I am correcting the imprecise statement by the minister that the INA cannot be in charge because it would harm the reitting of the Republic of Croatia. In the year and nine or ten months of the Croatian government... In two years, the Croatian government's term of office increased by more than 4.2 billion euros. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] And as we can see, the reiting hasn't fallen, even the minister's good contract will conclude... 4.2 billion in charge and INA cannot be in charge. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] It's just an answer. INA must not be in charge, and why we don't know that. It is only a message to Sisak and Rijeka workers, you will not have a renewed refinery and you will also spend bad fuel on Croatian citizens. Why couldn't INA have invested in an earlier age? So we forget, 2 billion... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48211	Thank you very much. Second Amendment Honored Representative Mato Churchvenac Come on, guys, why are you doing this? [[The intruders don't understand.]] Well... Go ahead, go ahead, keep that sentence going. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48212	I'm correcting an incorrect statement from the minister saying it could have been done before. INA was the biggest loser in Croatia. Two billion kunas of losses due to the government's leading social policy through lower prices by 1999 than the cost of oil. And for that reason, it took a two-year consolidation of INA since 2002, a billion-year INA gains, and that's why this could be done. Thank you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48213	Second correction, please. Second correction by the respected representative Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48214	Well, I'd like to join the correction that you can't or won't be in good debt for a specific project because we're already in charge of the state, and the debt doesn't have a positive impact on growth. It's not just a question of wrong allegations, it's just not a good approach. It's good to always be in charge of a quality project that can bring back what's invested in it and leave the benefit to the state, hire people. No matter what level it is. But look, gentlemen, it's not a good thing to be in charge of the Peljesac Bridge even though he is, he's going to be a wonderful thing, but as an economist, I'm telling you at this point that it's not a good thing to do and there, such a duty is not a good minister. And this one that can come back is always okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48215	Dear Representative Ljubo Jurcic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48216	Here's at the beginning of the presentation of the esteemed president and members of the government. I'll try to say how statistics can be manipulated. The growth of industrial production. Look. In the first nine months, there was an increase in industrial production of 4.9%. The largest growth records food and drink production of 5.8%, but listen further. Stocks of finished products are 10.6% higher at the same time. The largest stocks are recorded in food and drink production. Making supplies really doesn't mean any growth, Mr. Shucker. But when we talk about the Budget then it actually represents a certain redistribution of part of the national income. The budget policy should also be conducted by providing certain functions in the country through one such redistribution and covering certain expenditures. It's about science, culture, sport, certain social needs, health needs and so on. Of course, opportunities for economic development are also being created. What have we heard about this budget? We also heard he's developed and he's social and he's balanced. We heard today from the Prime Minister that through him we are strengthening the standard, strengthening economic development. That investment is 16 billion kuna, that the government's priority is to encourage employment. To increase, to increase health funds by a billion and 200 million, to increase pensions by 5% and finally to say, "There are 5 billion kuna in this budget provided for direct and indirect costs... Well, that's about 5%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it should be said that in the smaller budgets it was about 10%. In earlier years, for such needs, we have set aside 8 and more billion kunas for such costs. And I would say that this budget is drawn up to meet the IMF's demands and it has to be because we signed such an agreement and as a state, we would be unserious if we didn't. But it is, in fact, partly satisfying the local HDZ organisation. Look at this from the election campaign flyers. The Prime Minister in a rural municipality signed a book of impressions in elementary school. He promised to build a gym, a gym. It is not true that God is not in this budget. But at the rally, she wrote this kind of password: "President Sanader told the president of the local HDZ: Your victory is our help." So that's one part of this calculation. As for... /The speaker has been disabled./... 72% Budget relating to salaries, pensions and health care. Let's analyze that a little bit. Salaries in mass are up 2.8%. So base 3%, inflation 3%. The wages will be on the same level. If we say that in those 3%, we have to find those 0.5% for each year, the perfect year of work experience, then it's even going to be a real fall. The peace with these billions and some million kunas or 5% will cover only compliance under the law. So it won't reduce the difference between old and new pensions. She'll get bigger. At this point, it is 600 kuna. As for health care, what is this billion and 200 million kuna? From one in, on the spending side is 88 million kuna repaying loans to a debt hospital. On the other hand, there are 300 million kunas in revenue and expenditure from so-called administrative fees or practices. So practically some new separations aren't here. There isn't any here. It will actually cover patients who will pay an administrative fee. As far as the economy is concerned, in order to do more from this level of so state in the economy, then the budget needs to be little and creative. It should, you know, go more courageously into certain investments in state-owned enterprises. It is necessary to go more courageously into encouraging certain economic projects and to go more courageously into reforms. Is there reform in this budget? We couldn't read anywhere the costs of certain reforms. Neither national administrative nor pension reform. Not even health reform. We have only an announcement that we will get a new Health Law and rightly people are afraid that they will also receive new obligations through this new Health Insurance Act. What's going on in the Encouragement Budget? What's going on with the subsidies? What happens to projects or funds and projects of HABOR? Guarantees for a small economy? They remain at the same level as planned in 2005. The question of whether 3 per cent inflation will be achieved at that level in 2005 is a real drop in these funds. The budget does not show that we are negotiating with the European Union in, entering the European Union, because if this were to be seen, these support and subsidies would already be harmonised. We would also have had a new law that we recently voted on on state aids we would already have a project or subsidy programme, priorities that would be subsidized. It's particularly sensitive in agriculture and we have classic cereal subsidies here, the most on products that are deficited are almost gone and then the little money that's secured in the State budget is actually being wasted and we don't have any shifts in production and in new productions. What about regional development? Croatia is very different in development. One part is the consequence of some other circumstances, but most of it is the result of the war and the occupation of these areas. What's going on? Decentralised funds remain at 2005 level, at a level of billions and 200 million kuna. The Regional Development Fund decreases year after year. And this year there are cuts in funding from the Regional Development Fund. We don't have any new regional development projects. The funds for projects in the mountain-mounted area, the area of special state care, border areas, islands, Adriatic islands are reduced, almost 30% on average. What about employment? The big bells were said that existing projects in active employment policy do not give effect, and now we are planning the same projects for 2006. Since we cut off funding this summer on such projects or similar projects, I do not believe that entrepreneurs will re-enter such adventures and that after hiring people they will not have the opportunity to recover those funds. I'll just say for example what it means in regional development in my county. in the County of Međimurje, the budget is only projects that end in 2002, 2003, and are now paid according to contracts for certain costs, i.e. certain participation of the state budget. There are no new projects. And what will we remember these two years of government? Instead of the movement of Croatia, this is what the citizens will remember and what I remember. The tax cuts, certain reliefs used by taxpayers, introduced new health obligations, so for those most vulnerable, for the sick, increased pension gaps, I said already about 600 kuna has already reached that difference. It did not react within the scope of the government's ability to reduce fuel prices. The government debt has increased. In these two, three years, the most valuable assets for deficit coverage will be sold out, investments have slowed down, incentives in the economy are reduced. So, in one word, instead of starting economic growth in Croatia, we are starting an ever-increasing outflow of kuna from our increasingly poor citizens' pockets. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48217	Please. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48218	Your Honor. Mrs. Zgrebec mentioned in the small economy that it was only a guarantee problem. That's not true. Solutions that would be more creative in achieving some priorities and in some breakthroughs are significantly wider. When I talked about the little economy in the last 4 years through the Pecec ministry being initiated and actually organized, it was about the institutions we have to have to do something about, Mr. Djakic about it I didn't understand at all, turned 12 billion kuna, then it's a large amount. 12 billion kuna, Mr. Djakic. And a busy and open mass of small plants. You see at Zgrebec's in Međimurje what's been done. ... Wait, now I can't argue with a man like this for God. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I can, but you guys don't need to listen to this. I was going to say that maybe most of you know or at least some of you, I don't know about Mr. Djakic, that the road to Split is costing 15 and a half billion kuna, and that a small enterprise has gone to 12 billion. It's a lot of money, it's more of an effect in an earlier period than many others. Thus, only those solutions, which in the broader context, mean a wealth that enables progress to be made in a field. A little bit for this, a little bit for what, that just means we're in a rut we can't actually get out of.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48219	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48220	Well, fellow Churchman, I, because we're limited in time, couldn't elaborate some of the things that concern the small economy. In Croatia, there are about 93% of companies that are placed in the ranks of small and medium-sized enterprises, even as regards employees, even slightly more than that percentage. Which, in fact, should mean little entrepreneurship in Croatia doesn't need to talk much. However, we that it might work must be so-called. engines, so big companies, big companies that could absorb everything they produce. In order for this to happen then the state must do something more, it must do it in this way, not only through tax policy, but also by investing in infrastructure, especially in those areas that are devastated, because it is the only way that we can attract new entrepreneurs both from the country and those that are even more favourable to us because they come with finished money from abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48221	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48222	Dear Vice President, honourable members of the government. Here, at this time when honest citizens of Croatia's peaceful consciences sleep we are discussing the most important document for next year. I hope that there will be some union that will take care of the rights of the MPs not to use us like this to work, so that by law or rules of procedure, we will prescribe how this House works, not that we discuss the budget for 14 and a half hours in one day. I don't believe there's such a big rush and a rush to do it that way. We are here today discussing a state budget that is nominally around 98.99 billion, but the much greater importance of this budget is not how monetary it is, but the problem is that it is over 92% of the money collected in the Republic of Croatia. So we are talking about almost all the money that taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia will allocate next year for the functioning of public affairs and for meeting their needs. In a few days, another 5% will be debated across the street in Mark's square, and about 4% will be debated in five hundred forty and which unit of local self-government. And that's why the importance of this budget is so great. That is why we are talking about this budget and we are asking whether it is developed, especially whether it ensures a balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia or not. Now, here I am fully aware that HSP President Djapic worked with HDZ President and Prime Minister Sanader, but I am absolutely unclear that Djapic was working with Sanader. Because I can't think of anywhere in Europe that the mayor of the 4th city would go to the prime minister for money to spray mosquitoes together. Imagine Mayor Funkfurt going to Mrs Merkle's and saying, "Listen, give me some money to spray mosquitoes because on... They've got mosquitoes with mosquitoes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It wouldn't have occurred to the mayor of Frankfurt. It would not have occurred to him because Germany is such a state where cities have the opportunity to ensure their citizens, that cities provide all the functions they have, and disinsectation is a municipal activity, and with the municipal activity the prime minister has nothing. So long as 92% of the tax money is going to go to Prime Minister Sanader's office, and the mayors have to break his threshold and beg him to redistribute their money so that these can do a banal thing like spraying mosquitoes, this budget won't ensure regional development in a way that meets the needs of citizens, but apparently some other criteria will have an advantage, and you'll let them have political criteria here in Osijek. Because the needs and problems of the citizens of Osijek existed last year and before, but they could not satisfy them until there was no need for Prime Minister Sanader to spray mosquitoes in Osijek. So, unfortunately, we need to talk about finally decentralisation of the state and decentralisation of fiscal revenues. What is tragic about this budget is that it completely ignores the recently adopted Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government in this budget. No paragraph of the budget ensures that units of local self-government can consume the rights laid down in that law. The only course of the law will be that units of local self-government will have to change their statutes. There is nothing about the transfer of building permits to large cities and counties, because if there were then a reduction of employees in the Ministry of Spatial Planning because employees from these offices of the state administration would move to the county and the cities, they would probably need some of the money paid for their salaries, predicting that they would be transferred to the county and to the cities that would take over those powers. There is nothing in place to maintain public roads in large cities and counties because, unfortunately, 240 million kuna for county roads is planned for the same as last year and budget projections for the next two years, the same amount. You don't even respect inflation. And not only that, you should have made a schedule of it and said ok. What will worry the county will remain on the ZUCs, and what will begin to worry large cities should be redistributed and given to large cities. And now we are absolutely certain that this money cannot maintain the county roads in the standard prescribed, so not only should the redistribution have been made but it should have been increased. That's not in this budget. Gentlemen, the worst is the Fund for Alignment, its increase is 1.69%, and this item in the budget tells us what budget projections mean. Because last year, when I asked the amendment to increase it to a billion and 250 million kuna, then Minister Schuker told me no problem, it would be enough for this year a billion and 180 million, but we predicted budget projections for 2006 a billion and 320 million. Look, all of a sudden, the projection just gave up. Today we are fed here with budget projections for 2007 and 2008. They mean nothing to you, and that is exactly the example of the Compensation Fund where the 2006 budget projection was not respected, which was planned for a billion and 320 million kuna. If that were the case, perhaps part of the county hospitals could solve their problems, because then, from decentralisation functions, founders could resolve losses for which they were not to blame. Because I repeat counties as founders of institutions do not have the authority to object to the rights of employees in these institutions, so they do not make collective speeches. They don't even have the power to negotiate for HZZO to sign the contract because HZZO blackmails them or you'll accept the contract we offered you or the institution won't have a contract. And then it's politically agreed, so Chakovec got an increase in the limit, so we hear today he's going to get a Bjelovar increase in the limit, but behold, Koprivnica can't get an increase in the limit. Countys are not authorised to negotiate with drug manufacturers on the price of medicines. They are not authorised to negotiate service prices. They are not even authorized to negotiate who will go to specialization and who not and how they will develop a spectrum of services in their health institutions, but therefore comes into account and must pay the debts that someone else creates. You're in the same situation at school. You know, the Minister of Education boasted about the papers by the end of my term, all the kids would be on one shift at school. For that, we need nothing more than to build 300 schools, and for that, we need 12 billion kunas. I don't see it in the budget. I don't see it in the budget, gentlemen. I don't see in the budget at all that schools from the state budget are going to be built for next year that aren't being dragged out of... Or I don't know when. [[You don't understand.]] But the minister says no, all children will go on one shift to school. Not that he won't go to one school but by the end of his term there will be schools that won't have a sanitary node within the school. And that's what we're talking about here is development, regional development. As is the issue of regional railway development. If it was accelerated or not I don't know, but the most profitable railway for the Croatian railways, the 5B corridor for 2005, was projected 50 million kuna in 2006. It is not enough to oil that rail, not to make reconstruction, a remont of knots in the Križevci to start building the second track to move on the other side towards Karlovac without talking about there is nothing about the Koprivnica-Osjek railway that carried the burden of war. There's no story at all about having those tracks remounted or God electrocuted that railroad. So long as there will be no decentralisation of the budget...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48223	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48224	Let me finish my sentence. We cannot even talk to the decentralisation of the budget about the development budget, it is a redistributive budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48225	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48226	Thank you very much. So here are a number of exact things that Mršić stated, and I have to correct it in maybe a banal thing that will look for you, and for the other MPs, and that's supposed to be a banal thing like a mosquito spray. That's absolutely incorrect. The mosquitoes have just reached the level of the elemental accident last summer, I am very sorry that I did not have the opportunity to invite you to Osijek to make sure yourself that this is not a banality at all and that this banality of Osijek with its surroundings costs 12 million kuna this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48227	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48228	Mr. Vice President, it is an absolutely incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague, Mršić, in which he stated that schools are not being built, that there will be no toilets in schools. It's absolutely incorrect because I can confirm from our county three elementary schools, one completed, it's the fourth, high school that's in graduation and high school for wood that's also starting to work. These results are only in one small county such as Virovitica-Podravska. So don't deceive the public or your colleagues in this House because that's not really true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48229	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the Ministers and representatives of the Government. I will only limit myself to 2 issues, to the possibility or inability to implement the reform of the state administration in this budget and to the possibility of implementing a communication strategy for joining the European Union. At first, I wonder if anyone in the Government reads documents on Croatia coming from the European Union? Has anyone read the recent report of the European Commission and Croatia's progress towards membership in the European Union? If someone had read this, they would not have been able to skip and not remember the Commission's assessment that Croatia needs to strengthen its overall administrative capacity because it is a prerequisite for the implementation of adaptations and the achievement of the capacity to make commitments from membership in the European Union. If someone in the government had remembered this, it would not have allowed the State budget proposal for next year to reflect the need for reform of the state administration and in fact completely block the implementation of the reform. Today, few can boast that he has noticed that promises that the government has repeatedly repeated during the first 2 years of its mandate are being fulfilled, that it will be determined to implement another commendable project, the one about creating a new, modern, effective, capable, professional state administration. For, if such a draft budget is adopted, it will be final proof that the reforms of the state administration will not be in either the 3rd or any year of the government's term of office. In fact, the government forecasts that the salaries of government employees in 2006 increase by 2.6%, by 1.9% and 2.8% in 2007. At the same time, such an almost equal number of state administration employees would generate even higher material costs by 22.4% in 2006, 11% in 7 and 3% in 2008. Therefore, there is no reduction in wage items, and this consequently means that there is no reduction in the number of employees in the state administration. A reform of the state administration in order to be effective and convincing should, in addition to the changes contained in the way the state services operate, lead to a reduction in budgetary expenditures both for employees' salaries and a reduction in material costs. I point out immediately, this claim does not mean that me or the SDP are in favour of firing employees in the state administration or reducing salaries in the state administration. The good government knows that it is possible and knows that it is possible to significantly reduce the total expenditure on employees' salaries, and that those who left the state administration body do not lose their jobs, and those who remained in state administration authorities have significantly higher salaries than before. The good government can do so if it knows how to implement a reform of the state administration in which the ministries and bodies of the state administration will be significantly smaller by the number of employees, and the surplus of civil servants will be employed in agencies and public services that will only be financed in a small part from the state budget, and mostly from their own incomes or will be employed in units of local and regional self-government in a significantly decentralised state structure. Unfortunately, this government does not show any ability to come up with and make changes in the government. That is why it resorts to the easiest, but also to the worst and socially most expensive, minimum wage increases for existing state employees, allowing them to make even more material costs, continuing their inefficient work. Thus, we will not descend from a high second place among the transition countries to measure the share of public sector costs in a gross social product that is too high 11% for Croatia. A thorough reform that would enable a more efficient administrative system could and should lead to a reduction in the share of public sector budget spending to a maximum of 8% of gross social product. Therefore, the Croatian public will undoubtedly read his basic message from such a proposal for a state budget. Don't trust a government that talks about reform and doesn't propose a budget framework for its implementation. No more stories will be able to convince the Croatian public and the Croatian electoral body in anything contrary to what it already already knows for sure, which is that the Croatian administration is three and bureaucratic, expensive and wide and that citizens do not trust it. For successful adaptations and for the functioning of the conditions of membership in the European Union, there will no longer be enough big stories but those who know this will have to make real shifts and reforms that will lead our public administration to the level of a functioning system which is able to participate equally in the European administrative space in European public administration principles. The reform of the state administration launched by the HDZ government at the start of its mandate is only a limited project. It was limited only to reducing the number of ministries and ministers in the government without taking other reform measures that would modernise the state administration on the inside and make it more effective. Neither this year's Civil Service Act has moved the government's efficiency limits because its real effects on depoliticalisation and professionalisation of the state administration will begin only after the next parliamentary elections. When we have a state budget that definitely cements increativeness in the reform of the state administration, then I cannot but argue that the government is entering the 3rd year of its mandate without visible intentions but without a vision of how to implement the reform of the state administration. Therefore, it will remain another major and important reform that such an incompetent government will leave in the legacy of a new government that will not be able to remain the same. The SDP is ready to accept and so hard to inherit as we already have a clear programme that will create a smaller, more professional, more efficient, more expensive but better-paid Croatian public administration that is capable of crossing the path from government and management of citizens to serving citizens. I would refer to another important activity that I hold if it were not properly evaluated in the National Budget Proposal. This is about implementing a communication strategy on Croatia's accession to EU membership. And again, informing the public and encouraging public dialogue in the European Union will remain just another beautiful desire that cannot be realised because the government has not foreseen enough money for its realisation. The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration for 2006 envisions 8.5 million kuna for the implementation of the Information and Education Programme. Therefore, for the implementation of the communication strategy. This is almost half a million kuna less than was spent for the same purpose in this year 2005 in which it was clear that almost no systematic communication activities have been implemented in the European Union. The long-term sustainable growth of public support for Croatian membership in the European Union will be possible to encourage and support only a systematic communication strategy whose implementation will, of course, require at least twice as much funding as it has been invested in this inefficient year 2005. So, at least 16 million kunas instead of the estimated 8.5 million kuna from the 2006 Budget Proposal. Finally, I would point out that all those who want and expect the state budget to enable the achievement of important development objectives such as accepting the standards and values of the European Union, that they will reject this proposal of the state budget, but only because it does not guarantee that we will have a state administration capable of communicating with the European administrative environment and that would be able to communicate with Europe to Croatian citizens. My colleagues and colleagues from the SDP Club have shown the arguments that this proposal should also be rejected for other reasons. It can only look good to the promoter and his expensive partners who ask for and receive their share from the budget, for which Croatian taxpayers and all others who rightly expect a balanced development of Croatia pay too high a price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48231	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48232	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, an absolutely incorrect assumption is that the incompetent government will leave the country in a catastrophic state. Well, people, we've seen how the country is left in a catastrophic state, but let's just remember your government looked like a fragmented orchestra with a lot of soloists playing their own songs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48233	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48234	I must replicate my colleague for the reason why we will obviously have to send a stenogram from today's session to the European Commission, because the European Commission is dissatisfied with the reforms of the state administration, and we have heard a statement by Minister Shuker speaking, so I hope the World Bank would not have concluded the programme and dropped the loan. You wouldn't give a hundred million, and we don't do anything. Now that's who I trust. Well, I think we should really trust our minister, we should trust the World Bank, so let's get a stenogram to the European Commission, so let's let her learn about it. Unfortunately, those are the answers. Part of us is trying to send a clear message of no reforms in the state administration, no means of reform are provided and reforms are not implemented, not even in the third budget of our government. It's not being implemented, and that's what's dangerous, because we've entered the negotiating phase. We need funds for that, but that's not enough. All those who speak, warn, so neither should opposition politicians nor unions, so neither is the European Commission. It may be a problem when we complete certain phases of the negotiations, so we see that we will still have to change our mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48235	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48236	Thank you very much. Well, the whole intensification of my debate was, in fact, aimed at warning that one important reform, a reform of the state administration if not implemented, would not allow the execution of most of the adaptations that one in Croatia should make to bring the European Union closer. This someone is undoubtedly the Croatian State Administration, and therefore perhaps in my debate, I did not make clear or loud enough that the relationship between the implementation of the adjustment obligations to the European Union and the reform of the state administration and, therefore, perhaps all that is more clearly said by my colleague Linic could contribute to this warning about the relationship between enforcement or the possibility to comply with the European Union standards and the necessary reforms to make this warning even stronger.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48237	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Minister of Finance Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's nice when you have such a sharp mentality, but I think you should also show the Croatian public the SAA that is signed and where the zero VAT rates are spoken, where some other tax shortages are spoken of. It's very interesting that you didn't mention it today, but what I said to the esteemed representative Linic, as far as reforming the state administration is concerned, which is that the new Law on civil servants and tenants is the first step in reforming the state administration. I was talking about it, and that's why we got a World Bank loan. So you don't have to speak sarcastically, these are facts. The fact that you failed to enter such a loan and your relationship with the World Bank best speak about the state of reform you were in, but I repeat, the abolition of the zero VAT rate was not signed by the Government of Ivo Sanader, but signed by Mr Mimica on behalf of the Government of Ivica Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48239	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48240	I have to correct a bit of a nervous minister who can't without always returning to the old government after two years of office, that with a third year of mandate that... This budget, again his problem is the former government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, speaking of which, he fell out of the negotiation of the former government and left for the new government, so the correction is very clear that the pal program has begun to negotiate and a good part of the negotiations has been completed by the former government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48241	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Mr. Minister has injured Article 109(2). Rules of Procedure which clearly prescribes what and how government representatives perform in the Croatian Parliament. It is certainly not an explanation of the government’s views or professional explanations that calls for mental care. Also, professional explanations do not include a completely wrong indication that the SAA prescribes any VAT or VAT level obligations as well as the fact that I did not sign the agreement, but rather someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48243	I don't think Rules of Procedure 109 was injured. If you are unsatisfactory, ask the opinion of the parent board and please do not do the wrong instrument of breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is too late and it is important matter, but I am convinced that citizens will lose nothing because this budget proposal, and this debate cannot convince them that they will see progress, development in the next 2006 and that they will live better in 2006. I am convinced that they cannot be fooled by the draft budget or by promises because life's reality and hard survival brings them back to reality. I wish it weren't so, that everything the Government says is in line with the proposed budget is unfortunately not so, so the discretion or difference between the proposed written and spoken citizens will be seen when living on the basis of this budget. Let's be open, let's take off the glasses of the party and say that the projected growth of the gross domestic product of 4% and inflation envisaged, projected at 3 and a half percent in a society where the job requires 300 thousand citizens, and in retirement, the pension receives a million citizens of this country of 4 and a half million is not a picture that would allow the government and us in the Croatian Parliament to defend the party policy with illusions with promises. It would be better to turn to the organisation and training of the Croatian economy and Croatian economy to join the European Union. So raising your competitive ability. In other words, we are implementing reforms that this country will qualify for an equal match in the European market. My assessment is that this budget is actually a draft budget that ensures the continuation of this government without great responsibility for Croatia's future. One smart old wisdom seems to me to be Chinese saying that a smart man doesn't care what's happening to him now but is waiting for him. And what awaits the Croatian citizen by budget? Well, nothing new. Actually, nothing new. The continuation of everything so far. Or rather, in 1993, a government adopted a stabilisation programme and established privatisation criteria in the Croatian way. Since then, especially today, this government has sought through this budget to ensure that no changes in social relations established in 1993 and privatisation are made in the Croatian way. This means that even next year, the burden of survival will be borne weaker and poorer. Who's gonna handle it? Retired. No one has disputed that the pensions of new pensioners lag behind the promises but also lag behind the projections we set last year. So it's a dramatic situation with new pensioners. To the unemployed. No matter what we say, 300 thousand unemployed have been spinning around for two years as a constant number. Then, on the burden of development, I have already said whether the projection of GDP growth of 4%, inflation 3.5% indeed and the most naive can represent development, social security insurance and insurance of progress. Well, he can't. When it comes to reforms last week, they just spoke and actually passed the Law on State Encouragements. Once again, we did not foresee incentives that could raise the Croatian economy for a pedal in competitiveness. I'll repeat the information that's official. 50 or 60 years ago, the Croatian coast had 30 million olive trees. Now there's only 3 million. The rules that the European Union is asking us to comply with the rules of encouragement established by the European Commission if we accept that entering the European Union is both a rule and a standard. I'd like to go back to work one more time. My colleague Mimica spoke about the importance of reforming the state administration. It is a limiting factor and development and a limiting factor in the success of the negotiations. It should be noted that in these two years, according to the data that you've been bringing out here from the government, 5,000 new workers have been employed in the state administration. If that's the wrong information he's spoken here by the government. That wouldn't be bad if the organization was organized and the quality of the workers in the state administration was raised. But it's not like that. It's just a nominal growth in employment. As far as the budget is concerned, the 2006 draft budget in each budget item that provides for the promotion of employment is insufficiently planned. This should be added that the government abolished all valid programmes that showed that they had a resonation of existence because people were simply employed through these programmes. So the government has abolished these programmes, announced it will bring new programmes for incentives for employment but there is no such programme, and is expected, for example, to increase employment growth in the following year from 5 to 8000 new jobs. My colleagues and colleagues, such employment by the Republic of Croatia in the next thirty-five years would not have been able to secure new jobs for the current unemployed. It is important to know that the structure of the unemployed is also younger by age, by age and more professionally complicated by the social and social situation in the Republic of Croatia. As regards the qualification of the budget here, the budget is qualified in various ways, characterised as social, as developmental, as ambitious but no serious and reasonable man can characterise the budget with a developmental or ambitious when the main economic criteria determine that the growth of the gross domestic product is 4% and inflation is 3.5%. What do we expect next year? Nothing, the social picture of Croatia will remain exactly the same as this one this year. My colleagues and colleagues, it can satisfy the government, members of the government and people in the party in power but it cannot satisfy the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those who seek work or live with social assistance, have no perspective or offer them this budget. I am convinced that the proposals that came from the opposition, which is the task, are based on the programmes of the opposition parties. Therefore, the development of the Republic of Croatia is planned at least in the opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48245	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48246	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Representative Leko said the following in his debate. The draft budget deceives citizens that they'll be better off and that's the truth one false allegation by Mr. Lek. I must say here that the state budget is the most important financial document proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Assembly showing the way the income is achieved, the way the funds are allocated in that state budget, and that this state budget is brought by the Croatian Parliament and how it can then be a document that should be fooled by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that they will live better.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48247	Thank you. With this, we will conclude a debate for today, or tomorrow, the day before yesterday. We'll be back at 9.30 tomorrow. It is up to the honourable representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48248	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate. It is up to the honourable representative of Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48249	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I only see one representative of the government. I must stress that this budget that is referred to as balanced, and we forget that according to the Budget Law, it must be balanced and that it is not any innovation or something that is particularly happening. On the other hand, if it is said that it is social or developmental, it is in the nature of things because it has certain laws that we have to follow by this document. However, it seems to me that this is also the basic thing that is happening, that economic policy does not have any particular changes compared to last year, but I must stress that in the economy of the Republic of Croatia we have problems because the default deadlines are extending, we only know that the employment subsidies are extremely late, that hospitals are paying or some other institutions that are also state-owned for 300 and more days have non-payments. Therefore, the fact is that there is no big twist despite the fact that the majority side is trying to speak constantly and to argue that it is the best budget ever made in Croatia. But let's go concretely now. The fact is that the Government in its, in the Government's programme, I will read, it is written that our village needs a new boost, our agriculture, our forestry and fisheries, a new understanding of the state under the difficult conditions of international trade. For the new development of our cities, it is necessary to step out of political tightness. How is it that respected colleagues and colleagues can be seen here in this budget? Let's just look at the county's first financial aid. I would like to get an overexplanation of the 12 counties that receive assistance in this budget, I would like to hear from the minister who is the reason that the Varazdin County which is quite certain among the counties that receive assistance is neither the smallest per area nor the largest per capita, why it receives the least funding. Yes, it can be claimed it gets from this year when it hasn't gotten anything, this is some kind of progress. However, it would be good to finally hear clear criteria and I would ask Mr. Ministers to tell us especially because the Varazdin and Međimurje County that gets almost twice as many counties which who have developed an economy but an economy where it predominates means labour intensive industry, textiles, skin, shoes, wood processing industry which is otherwise in a difficult situation and where average salaries are from 30% to 25% lower than the average of the Republic of Croatia. Let's go to the farm now. When we talked about budgeting for this year on the irrigation project, the execution was zero believe it or not. I, and then, it seems to me to be ten days ago, asked the question of who was responsible for the unemployment of the Ministry of Agriculture that although the money was intended to be not spent. Now it's spoken again as a big project, a irrigation system, just 16 million kunas. I'm afraid that's going to stay at the end of Potenkin's village, because if we haven't managed to spend 16 million kuna this year, and we're predicting the same amount again, and I don't know why we have a guarantee and who's going to fit if we don't spend that money this year. It's a similar thing with permanent plantations. Mr. President, if you could just calm down a little bit, we all have equal working conditions. The other thing is also permanent plantations. I am one of those who advocates that the larger amount of money is being spent not only on permanent crops but on agriculture in general, which will be most difficult to comply with the entry into the European Union, and this government has said in its work programme that agriculture will very well encourage it. However, for permanent plantations according to my deep conviction, not enough money is scheduled for next year, and I think it gives me the right, because very little money is spent and I ask who it is that stops our farmers from getting more money for permanent plantings. It's a similar thing to rounding up the land. We know that one of the fundamental problems of our agriculture is a small fragmented property. In the implementation of the budget for this year, it also seems to me zero kunas for the rounding of land. I'd like to hear how it's gonna be realized next year. What the government can say even a little bit, is that she's heard cries from this high house for defense against the fight. Finally, 5 million kunas are foreseen, however, much of the defence burden will again be fought against which it is constantly said to be bad, that it has not been scientifically proven, etc. We've got some kind of elemental accident, even a fight, and then our village is decimated. These five million kunas aren't enough, but let's say that something in it is quality and good, so it could be, let's say, some incentive forward. The establishment of the SAPARD agency envisions 9.5 million and 9.4 million kuna. The participation of the Republic of Croatia is 12.6 million kuna in this year, and I am afraid that since I am convinced that we are still incapacitated from the state administration that we will withdraw very little money from this programme and in that case we seem to have some projects in particular in some other segments where we have some projects for which I still have available no project documentation, no building permits and that will remain a dead letter on paper, there will be foreseen money that is well seen, but at the end of the year will probably remain unused. It's a demining program. I think that these 220 million kunas are not quite enough and that these are funds that are less than planned under the National Mine Action Programme by 2010. So we're in this High House adopting certain documents that we don't respect later. A similar thing is for penitentiaries in the Republic of Croatia. This year we have had several incident situations in the county, mostly in prisons where prisoners have fled, we hear that living and working conditions are bad and all, but I see that there is not enough money planned to modernise the system of protection at one stop in those prisons, and on the other side I hear that tens of thousands of people who have been punished for not paying any violations of any of those who should go to regular detention of prison sentences, so I would like to hear the reasons why they no longer invest in that system. I must also say that as far as railways are concerned on page 13 of the government programme, the government will speed up restructuring and launch a fundamental modernisation of Croatian railways and railway infrastructure. Unfortunately, I, at least I can't read in this budget, I hope that someone will deny me, because I don't see here when the reconstruction will finally start so that someone doesn't correct me, the stripes between Vinkovec and Osijek, which is also part of Corridor 5C or may be the auxiliary part of Corridor 5C. Unfortunately, in 2003, the demining of that railway section was launched. It was promised to be this year, etc. But it's still standing. It also seems to me that we have reduced and special concern has been written by the Government that it will take care of areas of special state concern. A new Law on Areas of Special State Interest has also been announced. The devil seems to care less Croatian than interest! The law is still missing, but as a message to people in areas of special state concern, the funds for this development have been reduced to 20.8 million kuna, I think. So I'd like to hear the reasons. It also says in the government's programme that the development of mountain-mounted and border areas will be encouraged. The funds for them have been reduced again. So obviously one thing is said on one side, but it's not accompanied by the financial effects of this budget. I would also like to hear what are the reasons that not enough money for decentralised functions. I'm just going to mention the health care program on the example of the Varazdin County. There are general hospitals and three special hospitals in Varazdin County. Whether or not there is a Ministry of Health and whether the government will give some special criteria to raise wages after the government has concluded a collective agreement with the unions. Limits don't follow it all the way, and then the Varazdin General Hospital will reject patients, and there are about 10% that come from other counties. Because according to these predictions, she's supposed to resuscitate any loss. It's even worse with these special hospitals where about 30% of the patients treated from the Varazdin County are. If they make a loss again they will be rich, under quotes, the Varazdin County will have to resuscitate the loss, and whether or not they will be able to refuse patients from other parts of the Republic of Croatia. All this says to say one thing, and unfortunately it's done quite another. That's why I won't even support the draft of this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48250	Thank you. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48251	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is, unlike Korenika, Mr. Korenik, the parliamentary representative, I will support this budget, but I will also say clearly and loudly what I think of it. This budget is in some ways a great desire for major compromises. They say art politics is possible. The great Churchill himself said that politics is poetry of misunderstanding. When it all looked a little bit, then under the circumstances and at some point we couldn't get a better budget than this. As usual, in the last six years, I'm going to talk about just one economic branch again, because it's keeping me busy all the time, and that's agricultural production. When it comes to agriculture, I don't think this is enough. That's what I was saying when it was the coalition government, that's what I'm saying right now. My colleagues and colleagues and Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister of Finance, you all know that, and I'm just going to remind you a little bit. In the last 70 years since the great economic crisis of the last 30 centuries, no world economy has stabilised its economic system until it has resolved the issue of agriculture. Unfortunately, we don't need to go back in time, but we know that in the last 60 years, up until today, it's looked at this economic branch, and agriculture is a fundamental economic branch everywhere in developed countries of the world. I have to say that I'm sad that here to encourage agriculture, agricultural production and investments in agriculture, that for this year, we'll only have a billion and 711 million kuna, and that last year's execution in that position was just a billion and 702 million kuna. You see, this government is on its way, when it comes to agriculture, with two extraordinary projects, and that's the rise of years-old pests. What brings the highest profit and the highest profit in agriculture and has begun to restore livestock production, which is in catastrophic condition. But if we're gonna stand out like this, then we're not gonna do anything about it. And these initial results that are more than good, given the possibility because I'm always talking about reality, then these two economic branches within agriculture will also be undetected. You see, we in primary production, in agricultural primary production we encourage 40 agricultural cultures. It's nowhere in the world, it's nowhere in the world. And at the time of the coalition government, and now I've always said that we need to encourage 10 cultures as much as possible in primary production, and we can't buy some kind of social peace through agriculture. I am for Croatian peasants to get as much as possible because Croatian peasants and all people who work in agriculture are the most robbed social group of Croatian societies in the last 60 years. But we can't carry out social policy beyond this economic branch. I think we have a ministry to do this in, and that's why we need to reduce primary production to a maximum of 10 cultures. In livestock production, which is a generator of development both primary production and food production, we must encourage livestock production. As part of livestock farming, we see in these positions that it hasn't moved too much compared to the previous ones. One of the biggest wound cancers in Croatian agriculture is the Encouragement Act. This government, when something came to fix it a little, has made changes and complements. That's when it was promised to go, and I was saying it then, and I'm saying it now has to go into a whole new law. Because this Law on Incentives in Agriculture and the Law on Croatian Television, these are the two most radical laws not in Croatia, not in Europe, but on the globe. There are no laws like that and it needs to be changed as soon as possible, but when we get to HRT, then I'll talk about it, now it's agriculture. Then, agricultural positions, i.e. agricultural incentives, are markedly reduced and protected from floods. There's something up, but it's not nearly as much as it would take for our agriculture. Then, we should do land policy fundamental things. It's a massage, it's an arondation and it's a melioration. Until we do, we cannot strive for high-productive agricultural production, we cannot strive for what is happening in the world today. You see, advisory services, I think that today's advisory service for Croatian agriculture is needed as thirsty water. We've had this service organized for 15 years, but it keeps taping in place. And she's more civil instead of being more in the field of agricultural production. This service, it is inevitable, it needs to be supported, but it needs to be reorganised from the foundation, money should be given to that service, this service should function in Croatia around as the law offices operate. There must be an expert team of people from different professions in the context of agricultural production that will give people advice on what to do, how to work, and where the highest profitability in agricultural production is. Many people say that small crafts and capital are in agriculture. It is true, but again it returns to the fundamental thesis that agriculture is a fundamental economic branch. If, in the Netherlands, in the last 4 years, every year since the production of food in their gross income, they have $60 billion, then colleagues and colleagues I assure you that in our Croatia, which has 10 times better natural conditions, whose science and profession are not at all Dutch where our workers do not lag behind theirs at all, then we can get far, far better results. But for starters, I would be happy if in Croatian agriculture we had a 10th of what the Dutch have. And finally, let me say the following. I hope so, and I would like you to hear this, Mr. Minister, you as head of the Croatian Treasury, in the rebalancing of a budget that will be about half a year, I am asking you for these basic items that I have been talking about here, the rise of years of plantation and the reorganization of livestock production, to at least raise a hundredth of a million kuna, because that is the only way you could successfully end up with these billions and 711 million kunas that have been allocated as part of agriculture in encouraging agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48252	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48253	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's to this part of the presentation of fellow Loncars where he's talking about separations for long-term plantations. Actually, I'll say it like this. It is irrelevant whether it is in the budget of 70 or 700 million kuna for such a purpose if it is not ensured that it can be realised. A fellow Lončar, as an experienced agronomist, knows that a long-standing nastava should have quality and orderly land, so that a quality plantation should be raised, so quality fruit material is provided. In order to have quality fruit material, you need to raise quality parenting, produce quality backgrounds, from them quality seedlings. For example. In order to increase the area under the vineyards in Croatia, we need to produce in one part of the indigenous variety, therefore fruit material for indigenous varieties and recommended varieties in a particular wine-growing area. So far, we haven't been paying enough attention to all of this, and I really don't think that these funds that are enough for about 700 acres of different long-term plantations are the question of whether we can spend them qualityfully?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48254	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48255	Well, I'm glad my colleague Zgrebec warned about this because she's been working in agriculture for almost a lifetime, but I just warned her that she's the generator of all these problems. I was talking about land policy, that is, in the Law on Land, I was talking about the Law on Encouragements, and when you said it didn't matter if it was 70 or 700 million kuna, believe me, you know that too, and I'm going to illustrate it to you on one example. For example, on one hectare of apples, and in Europe no one has such conditions for the production of apples as we Croats, then on one hectare of apples can be obtained as at 45 hectares of wheat, and you see while the coalition government was in power we then turned off the production of wheat because it was appropriate for someone. We produced twice as much wheat as we need at twice the price of European and global, then we exported it at twice the price and we subsidized the exporters per kilogram of these wheat from 40 to 58 limes per kilogram. I think Mr. Linic knows about it very well, and it's this famous wheat affair that I've been talking about in my time and had evidence of a robbery and crime then of a billion kuna, but unfortunately it's been established by the Investigative Commission, but thanks to most, it's never worked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48256	Thank you. Second replica, Honored Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Columbo said we couldn't get a better budget and then he put out a series of farm-related criticisms. It seems to me that simply a colleague is wrong or we mix pears and apples. If agriculture is the most vulnerable part of our economy, and it certainly is, then the government should respect what it predicted in its work programme. I will read to you, said to ensure a faster, simpler, cheaper and more efficient support system for small and medium-sized family economies, the government plans to set up a “Agro” bank, and encourage faster adaptation and more active role of the banking sector in the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in agriculture, etc. I don't know, I'm asking myself and you, in the third year of office that is going to plan and if you see the establishment of the “Agro” Bank as a way to help farmers come faster and easier with all these previous measures of land policy and everything else to come up with cheaper and more quality funds. I'm sorry, if you may see, I don't see it personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48258	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48259	Well, here's the last thing I'm going to do from this thing that my colleague Korenika said about "Agro" Bank. My dear colleague, Corenika, I've been talking about this for 25 years and as a journalist, and I've spoken here in this House many times. At the time, I argued, I argue today, Croatia needs one financial institution that will monitor only agricultural production. Whether it's called "Agro" Bank or not, but I won't support that "Agro" Bank is founded on the ruins of Slavonska Banka, which someone suggests, etc., because it would be a total failure. Then they would destroy these little germs left in Croatian agriculture. As far as the budget is concerned, I was talking about this budget that he's compromise, I'm just talking about the art of a possible, I'm a very real man. I can tell you, and you remember it well because you were with me and in the previous Parliament meeting when we were bringing the 2003 Budget in 2002, and I was critical of it too, but I said it was the only real thing. I want the structure to change in Croatia, I want the relationship to this economic branch to change in Croatian agriculture, I often take an example of the Netherlands and Denmark in my discussions on agriculture. They can be an example to us in the organization, and everything else we have better than them, but unfortunately they earn as much as in Europe in agriculture, and we earn as in Bangladesh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48260	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48261	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. And for starters, I'm going to say something that I think is an important feature of all these budgets for the last 10 years in Croatia. Namely, that assessment was timely, and at that time President Shakespeare was vice-president of the government when he was in '93. the year considered budget, the representative of the Ministry of Finance said, Mr Stulić's purpose and purpose of this budget is to ensure continuity in discontinuity or says the situation is such, so many needs are as if you have a hungry donkey who does not know where to define himself, whether on the left there is no layer of hay or right. Now here's the situation, and unfortunately, we've been doing it in the country for the last 10 years. Now we're going to have big debates about this or that, the media is going to be interested not to be the problem of all that, but they're going to be interested in the basket, because it has an effect, it's going to be interested in a variety of replicas, but it's not going back to the main point of all that, and that's the answer when we do something and we can go in terms of development is that we first have to do, so the assessment is both official and government and our club HSP. The annual grey economy in Croatia swallows 11 to 15 billion kuna in various forms. Now take a level of four, five years. That's 70% of your current budget proposal. So the mistake was done by the former government, and this one started to do those parts that we've been saying for a long time that the state has to take what it belongs to, that the state has to enter into a decisive fight against the gray economy because the state takes what it belongs to, it won't go to an increase in taxes and everything else, and that's the first key, and that means the functioning of the rule of law. And for that reason, again, I suggest you go to the government with those measures and suggestions that we have made, which the government also has in the fight against the grey economy with appropriate mechanisms. We'll do what needs to be done, which means let's take at least half of that amount that belongs to the state, which is seven and a half billion kuna, and seven and a half billion kuna for employment, for retirement, for Slavonia, for Baranja, for Dalmatia, for Lika, means a lot. That's the money that's here, we won't be in debt. The other thing about our program is, apart from what's important, the other thing is even more important. Those who have stolen Croatia have been illegally guaranteed, we must take it away from them because something illegal cannot become legal. This can only be done by the Croatian model of conversion and privatisation, and therefore we have put forward a proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Conversion and Privatisation if all other countries can do so, if Putin can do so, if it is a familiar thing in Germany if you bought a car for cash and you have no cover will automatically be taken away from you. Here, let's give this story back, and then we'll see that there are opportunities and then we'll constructively discuss how to get to that amount and not all kinds of two schools and one school doesn't solve the foundation and the foundation is how to take what belongs to the state, how to make mechanisms and fill the state budget and allow for the development of everything else. We at the HSP Club said we support this budget. Why do we support him? We support him for Slavonia and Baranja. It is the last time that Slavonia and Baranja stand on their feet because in three years Slavonia and Baranja are tied to this part of the European Union if Slavonia and Baranja are not now being solved, they will be totally on their knees. And if Slavonia and Baranja are on their knees then so is Dalmatia, then so is Lyka and then the rest of Croatia. If we put Slavonia and Baranja on our feet gradually, then we put Dalmatia on our feet, we know about tourism. Then we put on the rest of Croatia. So let's think about it that way. Let's not think about the fact that the media is trying to report on who will vote and how. Let's talk constructively, let's talk in the interest of that peasant in Slavonia who lives hard, that pensioner who has been unemployed in those areas for years. So that's how we need to talk. And I call on the media to report it rather than to form a public opinion. Those who have not read the introduction to journalism should read it. It's one objective reporting and another situation is the formation of an opinion, but if you form an opinion, give an argument. Now, as far as the other parts are concerned, I'm just going to take a brief look at the issue of armed forces. We also know for ourselves the defence system we are in, we had a joint session of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security yesterday. We don't work, my people, rebuild the army, reform. We'll only do it once we get a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces. Then that'll be it. Unfortunately, we've been late for four years, but we're also losing something that's important, worth military property. We know what properties they've moved into the property of a state that was ruled by the Ministry of Defense, now by the work of their lords, other not masters, that's a huge amount of money. It's on the Adriatic coast hotels, it's your resorts, it's your military centers and everything. Germany has implemented the reconstruction of its armed forces according to this model and has yet to fill the budget. I was talking about the 2004 budget in 2003. Let's go, he promised the defence minister, he also promised the Prime Minister. It's not moving. So let's do it. Let's not talk about going when we don't. So, we need to use these valuable military properties in that part, because as long as we have a ratio of material costs to armed forces, for wages, that 70% of the budget goes to wages and material costs it's known there's no modernisation, there's no progress. This is the same situation with the Croatian Navy. Let's pool all the coast guard funds in one place. Come on, let's make the law, we've got it prepared. In this way we can also improve the development of the Croatian Navy and other branches. It's the same situation with the police. We know for ourselves what kind of pay is in the police department, what is the question of police equipment. The police cannot fight effectively with such equipment as they have against organized robbers and everything else that's happening to us. So that's where we make it, but that's where we can do the same from these valuable military properties. Do not give them, give them to municipalities and cities, and then they already know who they are intended for. It's a very bad policy, but I'm afraid it's still in action. Furthermore, the important thing about this is that this budget has these social moments related to Croatian defenders and everything else, but here I call on those responsible in the government to make sure that there is no guarantee of a full amount for the issue of payment of the difference to what the pension decreed in 2004 rather than the amount of 140 million kuna. But don't work to give each other everything and nothing else. Make it appropriate. If it belongs to someone, let's say the difference is 100,000 kuna, then that's, say, 50%, it's going to get 50, but everybody gets it. And the last important thing is the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre from the Homeland War. We know that two million were secured last year, that there wasn't even a position, so the minister said he found the funds, and now we want to see it clearly because we know how badly it went, so that the center gets what we want and what it takes for our generations. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48262	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48263	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I'd like to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Kovacevic who said Slavonia was on his knees. Slavonia was never or will be on her knees. Why? Because Slavonia has her heart, has her pride, has her resources. The fact is that Slavonia is rich with all the resources but we are poor with the development of these resources. We ourselves cannot launch Slavonia and therefore clearly need support. This rescue of Slavonia did not begin with the last local elections but began to be saved much earlier by her sons, the people who live in Slavonia and the funds that are now being allocated to Slavonia I think that most of the work will go to Osijek because, let's say, Slavonski Brod is up to Slavonia. Therefore, we will be pleased to develop Osijek first, so if we need Osijek to help us develop the rest of Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48264	And the second correction by the respected representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48265	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the esteemed representative Kovacevic said it is incorrect that it is a bad policy for former military facilities owned by the Croatian state to be donated to municipalities and cities and it is incorrect and then they know what to do with it. Just the other way around. It is a good policy both promised by the former government and this government, only unfortunately being implemented too slowly and municipalities and cities have a number of public and socially beneficial projects that would be implemented in these facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48266	Thank you. Now we have seven replicas. First respected representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48267	Mr Kovacevic rightly warned about the problem of the gray economy but only in one aspect. Namely, there are several aspects. The first, of course, is how much we manage to capture and extract revenue from it for the state. I know that the Honorable Minister Schucker wore the first six months under the arm of a chart on which there was a trunk, one drop in excise income, or insufficient oil consumption. Unfortunately, now we're not showing that chart, that's the same problem. Furthermore, not only are we not able to do anything more important in excise duties. We can generally say that while tax revenues, gentlemen are increasing about 6% to 7%, and that is this year and are planned this year. This means that this grey economy is growing further because nominal incomes and economic activity are more intense than that and part of it is still coming out. And the second aspect of that is next. The government is now clearly among other innovations and in the field of statistics that we should discuss elsewhere is considering involving the grey economy in the social gross product. That's what the gentlemen of the European Union will do to you, you don't need you, and that's to deny you help because they're going to tell you that your income and your economic strength are much bigger than you're showing, bigger for that gray economy. Therefore, we do not catch the grey economy to extract its income from it and the European Union will catch it for you and tear down the incomes it should otherwise give you because of the Croatian economy's Tobyic strength. Therefore, the problem of the gray economy is well and rightly indicated, but it is much more difficult and complex and at this point it is not treated well or with the necessary attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48268	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's exactly what the esteemed colleague said. Namely, we have set our programme goal, which we have put into the 2003 programme for parliamentary elections, means the fight against the gray economy, and we have exposed it from the first days and related to working on black, non-payment of contributions related to tobacco smuggling, related to oil and oil derivatives, related to bread. When I told the minister in 2004 that the word was about 2 billion he was well-intentioned. He finally admitted to me last week that it was two billion how, in what way. So that's our program. The truth is, that's what the former government had, but unfortunately she didn't use it. This government is way behind on the realisation of our program. It's not just our program. We suggested it. We want this programme to experience what is important in order to be better for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48270	Thank you. Second replica. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You see, fellow Kovacevic, neither I nor the rest of the SDPs are afraid to replicate to you today as you were afraid of replicating yesterday, so you were constantly correcting the incorrect allegations of your own replicas. We are not afraid of your responses to the replica. When you talk about HSP voting for this budget because this budget helps Slavonia and Baranja. Then don't speak exactly. In fact, Osijek is in Slavonia, but Osijek is not the whole of Slavonia. Along with Osijek there are Đakovo, Vinkovci, Brod, many other places, cities and municipalities. They're not in this budget. He's got a billion and a half kuna more for Osijek. That's right. As a result, it is not too much of a concern for the Government for the position of Osijek that you have now recognised, respected and therefore voted for this budget. Because if the government were so worried about Osijek, she'd be worried about last year when Glavas was looking for money for Osijek, but they wouldn't give it to him, and it led to a riot and a crash in HDZ. This is why there are no more mayors among HDZ deputies today, just so they don't ask for money for their city like Glavas last year, so if the government won't let them, a new Glavas will show up. Here they came to their senses, and when you were talking at first about a picture of Burida's donkey, who between two haystacks doesn't know who to start eating with, then I liked that picture. Then I liked that picture because it's the position of today's HSP. He doesn't know if it would be the opposition or the government's backup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48272	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48273	Dear fellow Stazic, I can deal with all the things you want and whenever you want, and I will prove to you while you were in power that you had all these opportunities in the fight against the gray economy, but you did not take them. And now the important thing is, you're now talking about Freud's subconscious. You hate peasants with such, beware that's the part that I find incomprehensible. Why are you afraid of Slavonia and Baranja? Why won't you help Slavonia and Baranja? Don't throw these parts at the media, so HSP is now being negotiated here. It's important for HSP to go to Slavonia and Baranja. If Slavonia and Baranja go to Dalmatia, Lika goes, Croatia goes, and we have no more time, time has passed. That's why, when we come to power, then it'll be a real budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48274	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Replica three.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48275	Thank you, Mr. President. I fully agree with counterpart Kovacevic who said that there is essentially no establishment of justice in these areas unless what has been acquired in an illegal, illegal way is taken away, but in any case immorally. And indeed, in the long run, there will be no establishment of justice, no citizens will feel their country as right and just unless such reparation is established. However, during the coalition government, the SDP proposed law, so-called. The Law on Criminal Taxes, where at least in such a way, therefore, what the courts fail to sanction and by force of the law be taken away in a criminal procedure to establish such justice precisely by applying this law. We've been denied. Then, as the SDP Club last year, we proposed an identical law. You voted against it. Only HSS supported the law together with the SDP. Therefore, let us once agree to be credible here in front of Croatian citizens and be ready to do what we advocate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48276	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48277	The SDP promised for the 2000 elections to fill the prisons and pay back all the money and change the Privatisation Act. You didn't even do it. That's true. You didn't do it. The difference between your law and our law is important. You're going from the Institute of Riches without a legal basis, and we're going from the Institute that something illegal can never become legal. That's a big difference because you're admitting property. You admit property, it's an institution of wealth without a legal basis. It is an important difference, and we are subtracting because something illegally acquired can never become legal and it is greater benefit to the citizens, and we have supported you in that part, but now we expect you to support us in this part because it is fairer and that is what the Croatian people want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48278	Thank you. Fourth replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48279	I accept the debate of my colleague who says that changes in gray, treatment of the grey economy can significantly help revenues in the state budget, and we can therefore start with part of our own means of reform and development. And development in one part means economic growth. When we talk about the gray economy, it's not just a matter of state budget, it's also unfair competition. Because because of unfair competition that we can't stop a good part of the private sector economy, it rather takes a dividend in consumption than a dividend in development, and that's why we're slowly skating the economic growth rate by three and a half percent year-on-year. But what is unequivocal except for the gray economy, other than the battle for the gray economy, is the problem of growth. The growth this government says very clearly will not be greater than 4 and a half, four percent. He won't. We're satisfied with 4%, and at the same time we don't modernise the railways. We don't restructure the railroads. At the same time, we don't invest in INA, rebuilding refineries. At the same time, this government does not fight for HEP to build two power plants. At the same time, it stops, slows down the gasification of the Republic of Croatia and we will have problems this winter. That's the problem. So the gray economy, but also the battle for the rate of growth, the battle for what is not a problem or deficit, or the problem of relations with the world's monetary authorities. But there's not enough activity. She's gone. The third year of office has no battle. There's no battle for a job. That's what's important, and that's why I don't know if this budget should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48280	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48281	Well, exactly because of what you're saying, we said if we want to develop, we need to curb the gray economy, we need to gather with mechanisms what belongs to the state budget, which isn't done. You personally had these suggestions from the State Inspectorate, you know and personally, and you were afraid to leave because you didn't have the proper support. That's not what you'd be talking about right now. But that's the key to our program, so let's do it there for development and for the rest. And our main commitment is if Slavonia doesn't move now, if something doesn't invest in it, then it's over. We won't have time anymore and that's why we support the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48282	Thank you. Fifth Replic, Honored Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48283	Dear counterpart Kovacevic said the budget supports Slavonia and Baranja. Later on, my colleague Stazic's critical review said his subconscious is working with Freud, that he hates peasants. Let's just say it doesn't occur to me to tell Peri Kovacevic now that he hates the Dalmatians or Dalmatia because he said here that he supports this because of Slavonia and Baranja. It doesn't occur to me because I'm convinced that's not the case. As it is certain, counterpart Kovacevic made it clear that Stazic did not say it because he hates peasants but because what he says about being a thing. There is no budget for Slavonia and Baranja, so next year it will be for Dalmatia, and then next year, I don't know, for the Primorje-Gorski region. This is where the budget is brought to the entire Croatian state. And now, so, Pero, I won't be for this budget which I like piece and what anyone, okay, Osijek might be comfortable with this budget. But you see, for example, the incentive for Croatian shipmen falls by 10 million kuna. This budget doesn't match what happened to shipbuilding. Shipyards are by the sea, islands get 60 million kunas less. I can say from the point of view that he's not as good as I'm concerned and that's why I'm gonna be against him. There were words about the army. A partnership programme for peace and NATO accession last year, 400,000 kuna, this year 300 thousand kuna. Reduced by 100,000 kuna. Thus, the protection of military and civilian disabled war has reduced 16 million kunas. It's that social moment you were talking about. For me, the basic question is, therefore, whether the budget is a development instrument or a package of promises that lasts these two, three days, after which the clouds, which the outsiders, which are important, are to win the elections. I mean, that's why we disagree, not because someone hates someone or loves them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48284	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48285	Dear colleague, I did not say that he knowingly hates, I said subconsciously because I spoke to Freud. It's that Freud syndrome, when it says something maybe it doesn't mean it because I said I don't believe it. And I can't do Dalmatia when my wife is from Dalmatia. How can you honor me with something? I love a woman, right? Now the other part. You obviously don't want to hear what I said. I said, let's make mechanisms to fight the gray economy so you'll see that this budget will not be 100 billion kuna but can be far greater if this government does. If she won't do it, it's not at all controversial. Another thing, for... and real estate, so these are the sources that exist and where can be obtained for these development programs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what I was talking about. Don't say things like that, chicken upside down and make them up. I spoke correctly, we have two options how and how to fight, fill the budget. The struggle against the grey economy from 11 billion to 15 billion kuna, worth of military property, which is unfortunately donated to known donors. She worked for the former government, worked for it, and so does this government. Stop, let's do what we have to do to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48286	Thank you. The sixth replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48287	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, says counterpart Kovacevic, "I will vote for this budget because it will put Slavonia and Baranja on their feet", and alluding to the agreement between the mayors of Osijek and the Prime Minister. See, I'll believe that this deal will come true, when the government sends amendments to our benches according to that agreement. So, about industrial zones,... in Osijek, not in one digit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That there's enough money for the freeway, so that funds can be used to soak these mosquitoes, so that they can increase funds from 16 million to an adequate amount for irrigation. So that the General Hospital of Osijek will be explicitly written here in the budget because otherwise what I said yesterday will happen in the debate. The president of the government as HDZ president has signed that he will build a sports hall at a school, and is nowhere in the budget. So the signature wasn't even worth it this time. And you see, both Slavonia and Croatia need economic development, they need jobs where people will work, they need a safe neighborhood, they need available health care and education, and there is no such thing in Croatia today. Slavonia as the largest potential food producer in Croatia, see what is today. The largest growth in industrial production is recorded by a branch of food and drink. Even 5.8% for the first 10 months of this year. But that branch has the biggest stock, 10.6%. We're making supplies because we're importing food. When we work for supplies, we increase the liquidity in these companies, we increase indifference in the state as well. She's showing up like this, you see. In the 10th month compared to the 9th month, the increase in producer prices is half a percent. In one month, half. A consumer price index in that one month 0.7%.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48288	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48289	Well, you see, dear colleague, what I was saying about the gray economy and about military real estate. If you'd done it and spent the rest of your time doing it then it would have been for health care, then it would have been for school, then it would have been for halls and for everything else. And for this part of the warning you said last night, that's what my dear colleague Zeljka Antunović said, of course we are, HSP will take care and make sure we don't get played and normal because we won't be played. So it's not going to be us, so he's not being played by Slavonac, so he's a Croatian citizen, and there's the Shuker who gave the guarantee. He said what the president says is he's responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48290	Thank you. And the seventh, last replica. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48291	Thank you, Mr. President. I suppose the respected counterpart Kovacevic in part of his presentation on Slavonia and Baranja forgot about the part of Srijema as well. Let us not give up so easily this small part of Srijem that remains for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48292	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48293	I thank my esteemed colleague for... which I value as a Croatian defender and everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, by mistake I didn't say that part, and normally that's what we're talking about. Thank you very much, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48294	Thank you. The president of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Vice President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48295	Mr President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, please pause from one 10 minutes, 15 minutes in order for the Croatian Democratic Community to agree on a continuation of the debate and possibly propose permanent changes in the order of debate, especially in relation to HDZ representatives. Well, here, please approve that... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48296	Thank you. It's a 15-minute stop. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. The president of the HDZ Club, respected Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community club has decided to significantly reduce the number of MPs who will reduce the number of MPs who will take part in a further budget debate. As there are still over 60 registered MPs from 38 HDZ, and so far, no HDZ representative has come to order, we think we should reduce the number of representatives who will take part in the debate. For reasons to rationalise time in terms of not the quality of the debate but as many discussions are repeated and which, and discussions are repeated both through replicas and through corrections of incorrect allegations. Well, in fact, one of these same things is repeated with slightly different words, and we think it's an irrational waste of time in the budget debate, so we will significantly reduce the number of HDZ representatives who will participate in the budget debate next year. Here, I hope that in this way we will contribute more effectively, more constructive and work, but also the quality of the debate that will not be repeated on the same subject in countless variants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48299	Thank you very much. According to these applications were withdrawn by respected representatives Ivan Jarnjak, Krunoslav Markovinović, Ivo Vukic, Kruno Peronja, Nikola Sopčić, Ivica Clem. And I'd like an honorary representative of the Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know if it's ever happened that the state budget isn't being discussed with the social partners before he goes into adoption. But there, the day before yesterday, we had a chance to see and hear it. No one from the government came to an earlier meeting with the unions. Why? Looks like they had better things to do. That after they searched the budget with their local leaders at a closed HDZ trade session, they provided support to the budget and parliament, so they were late for a meeting of the Economic and Social Council. They also did not consult with their coalition partners. There were yesterday at the beginning of this discussion of attempts to deny this trade, but later also sales representatives and representatives of the buyer admitted to trading money from all Croatian citizens and all newspapers today. It is evident that in the process of drafting and budgeting the Parliament does not have the place and role that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia belongs to, that is, it does not have a real impact on certain budget items as the most legislative body. This is also evident from the fact that the comments and amendments of the representatives are already traditionally not accepted, no matter how reasonable and justified they are and no matter what the amount of funds is. They are mostly not discussed by the government, but by the already established package scenario, all of them are rejected. But let me look at the budget as a whole, or some of its items. There are one-off amounts of items left on the expenditure side relating to employees, services, unremarked operating expenditures, unremarked financial expenditures and exceptional unforeseeable expenditure. Individually, they range from several thousand to several tens of millions of kunas. Of course, there are extraordinary situations and needs that arise during the financial year, but whether they are enough to require a total amount of about one billion and 700 million kuna. The "Small Inventary and Autogum" item amounts to over 31 million, nearly 5 million kunas more than this year. If only half of the amount of waste on the tyres turns out to buy between 20,000 and 40,000 tyres this year. If at least partially produced, it could solve a part of the unemployment problem, and thus provide additional inflows of funds into the state budget. Furthermore, "Employments of office, equipment and furniture" is higher each year, so for next year it is 237 million kuna. Are our offices really so empty and unequipped that they need that kind of money? As is the usual practice of this government budget is once again non-transparent. I would support that claim with some examples. In the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship last year, subsidies and shipyards amounted to around 430 million kuna in individual users. 398 million are scheduled for next year. Only a summary item is indicated from which it cannot be read as far as it is intended, and the shipyard has 7 and should not be a problem showing the distribution by users. On the contrary, in the same ministry, within the programme of the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, I encountered the activity of funding and co-financing of the professional rehabilitation programme of the entire 2,000 kuna. Is it incompetence, ignorance of planning and budgeting or something? Similarly to this in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy in the head of Agriculture and Forestry, there is a programme for the management and protection of forests and hunting grounds, which provides for capital investment in brown bear management, whatever that means, amounting to 20 thousand kuna, which, in the light of the financial plan of the budget users, is listed as a donation from Italy. I wonder if it is really necessary to list these insignificant amounts as separate projects, and otherwise, even tens of millions of valuable items to put under the cap "The rest". If it wasn't tragic, it'd be funny. It is thought that through these sparks, someone is mocked by the dignity and wisdom of the parliamentary representatives. In the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development for the modernisation of railways, approximately 1 and a half billion kuna are foreseen, i.e. the reduction of funds for 130 million kuna compared to this year. Two major items, maintaining rail infrastructure, which is in a catastrophic state and means of severance, speak for itself about what modernization is. So, about hoarding the burning conditions so trains don't jump out of the rails and the new layoff of workers. The incentive of rail transport has been reduced by 80 million or 16%, incentives for Croatian shippers have been reduced by 10 million and 25%, respectively, investment in air traffic security has been reduced by 5 million or 14%. Under the Regional Development Programme, the amount of which is reduced by 100 million or 14% is reduced by investments in the development of mountain and mountain-mounted areas of special state care by around 25% and the funds for the restoration of municipal infrastructure in the areas of special state care have been reduced by 42%. If I add a reduction in the budget of the Croatian highways by 700 million with the announcements of highways to Sisak and the Peljesac bridge, I wonder how many of these projects will be implemented and what. It is too high to mention that all these activities are shown in common items that make up one big pasta shot or richet, as shown yesterday by colleague Vesna Pusic, from whom nature cannot be read for whom it is intended, i.e. there is no "t" about the transparency of the budget. I also need to look back at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Before I even begin my review on the chapter "College Sports and the Croatian Olympic Committee" must express my surprise that I found significant differences in the amount in the book of distribution of funds by users, by activities and programmes compared to the amounts according to the organisational classification in Appendix 2. I didn't add up the items, so I don't know what the exact amounts are, but it should definitely be harmonised because it's not about small differences. However, I must express concern over what can be read from certain items. It is a good thing that for sport, 111 million kuna is foreseen, which is the limit of 0.1% of the budget mass, i.e. the allocation for sport has been increased by 34 million kunas, which provides 71 million for public needs programmes in sport, i.e. the Croatian Olympic Committee, compared to the current regular donations of 30 million more than almost two-and-a-half times, while at the same time increasing the amount of this year's 7 to 10 million kuna or 140% for people with disabilities. But since this includes gambling funds, real budget increases still do not exist. Taking into account that in the 2004 Olympic Olympics, more than 66 million kuna and 20 million additional for the Athens 2004 project were allocated to the Croatian Olympic Committee, it turns out that we are short for another 15 million kuna for next year. Because of the practice so far that budget rebalances and sports funds, I'm afraid the same thing doesn't happen this year. On the contrary, I regret that a whole series of good ideas and projects were rejected and significantly reduced before they even got a chance to see the light of day. That's how they are, for example. Discarded sports programmes on islands, sports at universities and universities and prevention of violence by sports in schools, and the promotion of gender equality in sport has been reduced to half this year's amount. So this year, I have also proposed an amendment to sports on islands, but more about it when it comes to the debate on amendments, and I am already calling on my fellow athletes and fellow islanders to support it. Taking into account the fact that physical activity and socializing through sport are important factors for the formation of young people’s personality and for their health, and the growing problems of violence as well as addiction among young people, I wonder why such restrictions especially when it is known that the means for sports in Croatia are still insufficient regardless of this increase. Finally, with one sentence to refer to the Ministry of Health and Social Care, i.e. the release for the Medical Hospital Center of Rijeka, which amounts to 34 million kuna, despite the fact that, on a recent visit, the Minister promised the river for the new hospital project around 70 million, and in that sense, I have submitted an amendment that you will not accept that you would not put the minister in a position to lie. For these reasons, I cannot support this proposal of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48301	Thank you very much. We have four corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48302	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of parliament has said several times that this budget is non-transparent. That's just not true. My colleagues this budget is very transparent, but the budget needs to be read and read and read from it and I think for the first time we have the opportunity to read all the items of all state institutions. For the first time in this budget are institutions that have not yet been an integral part of this budget, which they had to be. Therefore, for the first time budget in the best possible and transparent and legible only needs to be read. That's the key.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48303	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic, second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48304	Well, here I am correcting the inaccuracies of colleague Prerman that the railroad is in catastrophic condition. That's certainly not true. Whoever has seen the shiny slope trains contracted by the former government without competition through intermediaries under strange circumstances and who are inappropriate for the lines of the European Union will not say that for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48305	Third Amendment, honourable representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48306	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like to correct Mrs. Biserka Perman's incorrect quote when she said sports, it says here a nice sport. That's one of the... The Ministry of Science of Education and Sports, and the other I will report in the debate. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48307	Fourth correction, respected representative Mirjana Brnadic. What? Ivanka Roksandić, yes, I replaced. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48308	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a distinguished colleague of Perman's, speaking of this Head of Sports, that there's no significant increase in sports and that she hasn't collected the items. There is a significant increase in sports, 78.25% in total, and only some increases: promoting sports in school sports clubs, and then public needs in the sport of the Croatian Olympic Committee, and then promoting the sport of disabled persons and even 73.61% in basic schools. That's all for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48309	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48310	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Perman said we were importing tires and could produce them. Croatia produced a car of tyres, in today's situation it is completely invaluable. I come from the country and I know the situation in Borov and not once have I heard the assurances that it just isn't for Croatia anymore. Just to tie to it, you know, it's been a while and growing rice in the Jelas field, so maybe rubber production in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48311	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48312	In fact, I have to admit a little ironic when I talked about this item in terms of its amount and the number of tyres that could be purchased through that amount, it turns out that this would be a very profitable activity in the Republic of Croatia that would solve a part of unemployment and bring a new inflow of funds into the state budget. Obviously, that is not the case and that some other expenditure that we unfortunately have not been able to read is actually hidden through that item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48313	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, there are 29 other MPs left to debate after the HDZ Representatives' Club has reduced the number of its representatives in the debate for the sake of one economical debate and the avoidance of repeated repetition. So 29. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. These two days on the global budget have been told a number of its characteristics, and among other things it is claimed to be balanced, balanced, realistic, objective, possible, good, transparent, smart, etc. In the arguments given in his favor, macroeconomic results were also called upon, which are positive, growth trends continued, somewhere stopped trends of decline, duties at home and outside, and I believe that all these assessments are correct, that all these arguments that were used are accurate and I have no reason not to believe it. But when I read some of the numbers again and examined it, then I don't understand something. With 94.5 billion revenues of 98 billion expenditures, 3.3 billion minus the budget of Minister Schuker is someone larger in one television show, when we set aside 19.2 billion for health care, 25 billion and 200 million for pensions and for salaries of 17 billion and 200 million that is almost 62 billion or 62 or 63% of the total budget. As it is now, so that's what I don't understand with the remaining 30 billion possible in the budget to do everything he's said to offer and to contain. So that's why I was worried when I read those numbers again. But what citizens are interested in when it comes to the state budget, and what questions have I not heard the answers to? Is there going to be a bigger salary next year? For example. in health care, social care and education, will all items of all collective agreements in the public sector be respected and settled by the end? Is there going to be a bigger pension next year? Out of 25 billion and 200 million 12 billion and 600, so 50% of the total pension funds go to those who made that pension full-time. Only every other kuna of pension money goes to those who have earned their pension work. If we add 4 billion and 400 to disability pensions and 3 billion to family pensions, then there is still a solid amount of billions that I place in the retirement category on different basiss acquired. However, what is particularly important is that the mass of next year's pension funds is projected to grow by 6%, a nominal that will not really bring an increase in pensions and a question of further harmonisation by any formula, whether Croatia or Switzerland will not bring any major increase. Is there going to be more maternity benefits next year? He won't. Is there going to be a bigger children's allowance next year? He won't. Will the next year increase the number of children who will be entitled to child benefits? He won't. Will county hospitals have bigger budgets next year? He won't. Will more funds be allocated either through the amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government, whether through the Fund for equalising decentralised functions of more money? He won't. So, can we expect that the fiscal capacity and budgetary capacity of municipalities and cities and counties in the following year will be greater? No, because the State Budget Act is with 2% of possible government responsibilities and there are no shifts. Is next year going to invest more in education especially in investment? No, I don't. Finally, will this budget, as a mechanism of economic policy, bring more jobs next year? I don't think so. It is said that the budget is transparent and exactly has items in the budget that talk about the distribution of 10 thousand kunas, 15 thousand, 20 grand and that's good. However, in this same budget are items 175 million, 220 million, 350 million, 400 million. Significant, from a regional point of view of a significant item by content and what I have not found in any of the piles of paper that monitors the calculation of mechanisms, criteria and ways and huge large items will be distributed over the year to users and when knowledge can be expected, let's say from the "pipe" program in different resolutions and by which the projects that local self-government has run for these purposes will be evaluated. As for the revenue side of the budget, only two of my observations. The planned revenue from the profit tax in the following year is planned less in absolute terms than was planned for this year and last year. Now I wonder what that means? Is this projection already showing that the government plans, expects or knows that in the coming year the Croatian economy, and especially the banks will not make profits or will it be smaller, can there be any change in tax policy and we will either cancel or do not know how to reduce radical profit taxes? I don't know, but I'm worried about the fact that the question of getting ahead we know that we're planning not stagnation, not increase, but... and in the structure of income, my conclusion, especially for profit and other tax systems and how to charge the budget, is that in this country, taxes are paid only by poor people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because whenever it comes to those income parties that should be paid from the title of capital and profits, they are getting smaller and smaller, and tax revenues from income tax, and we know that employment and pensioners are the most disciplined payers, then I really think that thanks to the poor citizens of this country, the budget is also possible planned. These are about my reasons why I will not vote for this budget, which is why I will not support it and of course hope and believe that the 2007 budget in this House when we propose it becomes far more quality and transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48315	Thank you. Let's do a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First, the respected representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48316	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a distinguished colleague, Lesar, said he didn't see if the health pay would grow, so he said he wouldn't. He didn't even see if the hospital restrictions would be higher, so he decided he wouldn't. I would remind him here that the expenditures for employees in the draft plan for 2006 are already 8.2 of which is 4% the allowed cost growth for employees. Material expenditures for 2006 were also planned with a percentage growth rate of 11.6, so it is assumed that hospital restrictions will also grow.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48317	Thank you. Second correction, the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48318	Mr. President, I need to correct an esteemed colleague who said this budget is not transparent. This budget is transparent and it is seen by this because all institutions have clearly shown their costs, and if the budget was transparent during your government then it would not have entered the deficit in which it entered during your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48319	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected colleague, Lesar, claimed that there would be no shift or increase in maternity benefits, child allowances and social coordination of the family in that part. This is completely incorrect, because the total planned funding for this year is 2 billion 261 thousand 306 kuna, and in the overall budget proposal 34% compared to 2005 is increased by 79 million 729 thousand or 3.65%. The planned funds for 2005 amounted to 2 billion and 181 million kuna and for 2006. 2 billion and 261 million kuna. Additional maternity leave and equipment for a newborn child worth 55 million kuna plus 30 million kuna for regular maternity leave. The planned funds for additional maternity leave and equipment for the newborn child are 714 million kuna and are higher by 8.40% and a total of 85 million kuna, so the colleague incorrectly claimed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48321	Thank you. Fourth Amendment, Honored Representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct a similar assumption as my colleague Byte. A colleague claimed that there was no increase in maternity leave and child benefit, which is absolutely not true. For maternity benefits secured 6.8% higher and for children's allowance 1.5% showing the social sensitivity of this government and the care for the demographic restoration of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48323	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48324	In his debate, Lesar asked whether there would be an increase in salaries for teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools. My colleague Lesar, he won't. A total increase in the amount of funds for primary school and high school teachers’ salaries is around 4%, which is precisely followed by inflation, and that means only that the salaries of educators will continue to lag behind even though around 15% are already lagging behind for other highly educated profiles in public services.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48325	Second replica, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48326	Mr. Lesar is really wondering if there's going to be a bigger salary and pension. Mrs. Lelic says something and she will. I agree, nominally, it might be something bigger, but gentlemen on one side and on the other, it doesn't only matter if wages and pensions rise by something kuna because they're at the same time important what costs and prices will be. And when we talk about pressure and prices and cost of wages and pensions and everything else from the government I hear the answers and that the conversation about it is unserious, that inflation is 3% and it will be so. Which I wouldn't exactly say. I'll only point to two. Mr. Lesar, you take care of it. Life expenses per month during June, including slightly later months, increased about 50 kuna per month and wages grew on average 27 kuna per month. You know, he pays if something a little bit goes up the bill doubles. Our estimate of inflation of 3% is often a co-inflation of gentlemen. We today have three major pressures, energy cost pressures that are not exhausted and we know our energy policy, pressure and cost and structural inflation of three possible and we have a situation that the Croatian National Bank will obviously be with the new governor, which is a very relevant fact for the price issue. In addition, if you have looked at a voice simulation model that is not made only for Croatia which makes it "business for... "then he warns that because of all these facts there can be pressure on the price and cost of life up to 7 per cent and more in the next two years or years and more, and this should be taken seriously. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only nominal size in terms of cost growth that especially burden each family does not mean enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48327	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48328	Thank you, dear fellow Church, for reminding me of the issue of expenses other than nominal and real salary growth, pensions, social contributions. Namely, I want the matter of costs very simply then to simplify and probably as I do, and you all have the opportunity to monitor every month the data published by the trade unions in this country. So what's worrying is that the purchasing power of the average salary from month to month falls. Now, if these data are correct, I've never heard anyone disputed the data that unions publish, then they're worried about every item in the state budget relating to those rights whose nominal mass or value is not greater than 7% because that means that it's going to either stagnate or fall. The fact that the mass of birth benefits is growing is probably good because they will have a higher number of newborn children, but the Law on Budgetary Implementation states that the birth benefits in 2006 will be the same as in 2005. So that's the data we have to read in that way. What value, what value. A woman who has three children that the weight in the budget is increased if her fee stays the same. So we talk about it all the time and we have to read the budget in a way that people understand us, not just among themselves. Therefore, the messages we send to the citizens must be accurate as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48329	The third replica, the respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48330	So you see, colleague Lesar, the problem with this budget is that he's not regional-developmental but he's redistributive. So here's where all the tax money is collected in the Prime Minister's Office and then obviously by the system we saw the other day, you have to kiss the Prime Minister's door or break the Prime Minister's thresholds so he can decide whether or not to do a job with you from a communal activity like a mosquito spray. And that's why you now have a situation where decentralised funds don't increase, they're 1.69% higher than in 2005, which means they're really going to be less valuable and they're 132 million kunas smaller than they were projected for 2006 budgets. And since we were convinced that the government would honor the 2006 budget projection, so local self-government and planned their development by doing ok. In 2005, the minister said we don't have the money to raise our decentralised resources as much as we should raise the minimum standards of decentralised functions, but that's why you see in the 2006 budget projections, we're going to increase that by almost 200 million. Now that we've got that budget for 2006, we see it doesn't increase by 200 million, it increases by 20 million. And the system is such that if you want to build a sewer, a treatment device, a plumbing, if you want some other problems to be solved by your citizens, you have to pick up the minister's thresholds or you have to go to the prime minister's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48331	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48332	Dear Mršić, you are absolutely right that the question of reading the quality of this budget in terms of its regional distribution when capital investment is almost impossible to make, only if you are not in a privileged position so you read the budget two weeks before the parliamentary representatives, not in this one but in some other halls and halls, and perhaps at the time of its assembly, have a stronger or greater, or less influence. And that is why it is extremely important that if our regions, the counties, average tax revenues per capita, are realised with a thousand and six hundred and six hundred kunas as their incomes, as someone said the sarma yesterday and we do not want to talk about, say, in Virovitico-Podravska, making only 789 kuna of tax revenues per capita, or in Međimurje one thousand 193. This inequality of tax policy and the way of financing local self-government has just led to the issue of capital investment from the state budget being items worth 100, 200, 300 million and its distribution being a secret in this House as well. And that's why I keep talking about it, so maybe we could even get answers to who and by what criteria will share that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48333	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! It is not good when without the arguments are talked about the remuneration of employees in the state administration and it is not good when it comes to certain incomes received by Croatian citizens without the use of arguments. So we'll take it when we talk about salaries for the last five years. First, in 2000, we cut salaries from 20% to 40%, we didn't pay for Christmas cards, regresses, gifts for children, and then in the 2003 election, we increased the base by 4% without worrying about how much the budget would cost next year. According to what is said today, there was no inflation in 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, and there was no need for public sector employees and the state administration to raise salaries. This is simply true because the salaries were first reduced, then 4% increased in 2003. That's true, and that's an argument in your documents that you gave to this House of Commons. Well, you've cut tax administrations and customs officials' wages from 20% to 40%. You did it. You've abolished people who need to worry about raising funds to the state budget, you've cut their salaries 40%. That's what you did in 2000. And when you talk about a 3% salary increase today, it's not enough, at least that's what you're talking about. But when the increase is 0%, that's enough. We need to be aware, like, first of all, that at this point our administration is underpaid, and that the people who work in the state administration are underpaid. That should be made clear and loud. Perhaps if the salaries in 2000 were not reduced from 20% to 40%, the basis on which a 3% increase would be calculated today would be significantly higher and the nominal increase would be significantly higher. And that's true. Why did the wages go down from 20% to 40%? Well, because someone signed it at the stand by the arrangement. She didn't sign this government. Why didn't the goddesses, the regressions, the gift for the children pay off? Why today, in the last budget, last budget, we have 300, 400 million court rulings to be paid out of the state budget. Which I can say that employees in the state administration won't pay for the regress, they won't pay for the Christmas card. I'm not saying that today's amount of regression, Christmas and gifts for children is something high-ranking employees in the state administration have, others don't. That's just not true. However, it has gained as much as the possibility of a state budget at this point. But they still get it unlike the year they didn't get it. Who took the right of someone not to pay overtime for overtime to employees in the MUP, who work daily under very difficult conditions, so that when these gentlemen are retired today, that overtime does not give them the basis for calculating their pension. It's all happened. Why was that happening? There was probably a problem with state finances. Decentralised functions. The law on the financing of units of local, regional and regional self-government was passed during last government. The funds of the income tax participation were increased with the basis of decentralised functions passed during the past government. In the pre-election year, it is decided that units of local self-government cannot be in debt in 2003. And up to 10 months, up to budget rebalances, amendments to the budget law no single unit of local self-government could be charged with June. Now I ask the question, did the mayors and the county who were mayors at the time have had a vision and a need for borrowing in local self-government units. And today when units of local self-government can be owed 300 a year and another million kuna, that's not enough. But when they couldn't be in debt or not, that was enough. Similarly, as regards decentralised funds and income tax funds for local self-government units, we can discuss this at the end of next year, so you will see how much the income tax on the income side of local self-government units will increase. But I repeat, gentlemen, you are negotiating the laws that you have passed, the laws that you have proposed. And now that this government applies them, they're no good, and while you were applying them, they were fantastic. That's just not true. Likewise. See what the amount of decentralised funds was three years ago, what it was today. They grow, but also look at the income of local self-government units based on income tax in 2002, 2003, which is today. And then when you combine that data, because watch when you're talking about some data, then you have to specify a methodology for comparison. You've got to figure out something to start with. And in this way, it's not good. Because I'm saying it again because I'm talking about you cutting your salaries 20 to 40% first, so you don't increase them for two years, so you increase them 4%, then you say that's a pay increase. And now that in one year the salary rises 3%, that's not enough. And inflation is only 0.7, 0.8% points compared to what was 2000. 2001, 2002, 2003. Inflation ranged from 2.2 to 2.2, and this year inflation was about 3%. So the other thing is inflation is the difference of 10 or 15% points. So when the wages didn't increase, everything was great, everything was great, and today when the wages increase by 3%, it's not good. And simply say if at the position of the Ministry of Science we have an increase... of the 4% salary funds, although the unions were offered an increase in the base for the 3% salary account, that is not enough, it is simply not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I repeat, I don't know what was the objective and interest of reducing wages from 20% to 40% above all of tax administration and customs workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48335	Thank you. 9 Correction of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48336	I am correcting the imprecise allegations of Minister Shucker and regarding the decision to cut wages and raise wages. In 2000, the coalition government halted the application of the 99th Agreement and adopted a decision on the freezing of salaries within 3 years. It's a freeze of pay. And that's what made it very clear to the union partners in the negotiations. In 2003, the agreement, the message expired and was the reason to negotiate with trade union partners. In the current term, the Croatian government had the opportunity to negotiate wages with its partners, also to make a decision to suspend application or vice versa, but if not, then agreements should be respected. It's a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48337	Thank you very much. The second amendment. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48338	It is an incorrect claim by Minister Shuker that the salaries of civil servants and tenants are being discussed here unargumented. The argument is the budget. That's an argument. And from that budget, it reads quite nicely, and wages will not rise beyond the inflation rate. In 2000, when those salaries were frozen, then the government, which came to power in 2000, inherited a negative growth rate, minus 0.9%. And what she could do in those conditions when the country was in recession, when she went back rather than freeze the salaries, and cut 60% of the state's salary Officials, President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Minister, MPs. [[Intruder: Please peace!.]] However, when you returned to power, you inherited a growth rate of 4.5% of the space so that you no longer have to have frozen salaries of civil servants and officials, so that you can increase the standard, to run Croatia as promised. The only thing you haven't accomplished.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48339	Thank you. Third Amendment. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, returning to the past is not selectively appropriate, it is not true, nor has the coalition government cut salaries due to stand by the arrangement. A colleague, Stazic, has already said it was a responsible attitude towards the future of the state. We adopted and assumed the responsibility of the government in the negative growth of gross domestic product. With a very low credit rating of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I think today's situation is the most economic and social consequence of conversion and privatisation in Croatian terms and it has not lasted since 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48341	Thank you very much. Fourth Amendment. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48342	I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of Minister Shuker who said that we are here today discussing as if there was no inflation in 2003. It was. It was 2.2%. Today, we are warning of an inflation of 4.1%. So I'm correcting the second incorrect allegation, which is that inflation is currently at 3% per state statistical office at the moment is 4.1%.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48343	It's a follow-up. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48344	It is incorrect that Mr. Minister argued that court decisions on various non-payments are now coming to him. The arrivals, arriving now, have arrived to us and are now arriving to you by the year 2000 for the lawlessness of 10 years. Unwarranted layoffs, misrecognizances of pay, and criminal acts of murder, terrorism, and so on. We have just made it possible in the Law of Prosecution that this would not happen to any government that the state recognises the obvious claims without litigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48345	Third, Sixth Amendment, Honored Representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48346	I'm correcting what I'm going to quote, which is: wages are now low because I don't know how many years ago they've been reduced by 20, 40% and so on. That's just not true. They're not small now because they've been reduced before. But in the meantime, they didn't grow, so they don't grow now for the next period. And then they had to be reduced because the liquidity was such that it couldn't be tolerated with monthly interest of 15%. You now have a completely different situation. You're already doing the third budget. You've been doing three rebalances. So, people, do something and suggest. Don't keep saying there's a problem here because someone's done it before.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48347	Thank you. The 7th Amendment, the Honored Representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48348	So I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of a minister who said that we object to the laws that were passed in the past term. No, I don't. We object that this budget ignores the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which entered into force on 10 November. And it says this budget that next year none of this law will be able to apply large cities in practice. So none of the rights that we've brought here and we've legalized will be applicable. And it needs to be made clear to the citizens: there is nothing in 2006 since the second step of decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48349	Thank you. The eighth correction by a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48350	I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's allegations that I've been lauding the Law on Local Financing and now I'm criticizing it. Mr. Minister, you remember June 2001, we were on a television show together when we shared reserves and doubts about the balancing fund where we met. And secondly, twice in this term, I have offered amendments to this law and you have twice rejected these proposals to amend the law. That's true, and I expected you to say that by the end of this year you'll come with his change, not the next.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48351	And the last correction of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48352	It is incorrect that now there is a smaller, lower growth in income from profit taxes because local units will get more. This is the first time the economy has made more profits since its loss in 2002, and it actually increased the profit tax and even though we had a reduction in the profit tax rate then. Growth rates ranged from -0.9% over 5.1% to 4.3% during that period. As for inflation, I have already presented this data only in the 10th month compared to the 9th month 2005 and the consumer price index is 0.5%. What else will happen in two months by the end of the year we can only predict and see... Will the rate be stopped at 4.1%? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48353	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48354	Here, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, allow me to try my debate once again at least point to the budget and leave all the other discussions for another time. In this debate, I will once again use the official information that has been published, which is known. Therefore, any possible debate should be polluted with some institutions and not with the views on this. Reiterating once again that I understand that the annual budget is the most important act in the country and, of course, it is the most interesting act, but that it also implies different fights and different ways of accessing the budget, as well as different views on the budget. Which, of course, everyone has the right to their own opinion and attitude. But these attitudes and opinions should be tried to submit, argued with data, and therefore I will again try to show when the evaluation of the Croatian budget is given and the state of society needs to be little and compare it with others and around its environment, and then, within that, it appears according to some of the phenomena that follow in the observed period. And that's why only two, three general notes that will be very easy to show and prove later that this budget has been achieved this year, I'm going to say freely, the highest degree of fiscal adjustment because there will still be slight adjustments. That it is finally balanced, that through it for the first time all revenues are managed, all the expenditures of the state according to whatever word used for the first time can be seen by the public, the movement of income and the spending of that budget. Similarly, this budget, as such, achieves macroeconomic stability and is extremely important social security. Why am I stressing macroeconomic stability? For the reasons that there have been different announcements as already this year, let alone the next year the time of recession, the time of destruction and everything else and this Budget, and the movement in this year, and this next and next year's guidelines for the next two years point to the stability of this Budget. What this budget is for itself if it is observed, of course, everyone is dissatisfied. And all users, but also in society because everyone is looking for their maximumist approach and their maximumist interest. The state of income in the country and other trends in which such movement can be assessed should be compared to others. I am once again warning and presenting the information given by other houses and I would say freely interpreting that the European Commission's latest views provide certain comparative data and assess positive movements and stabilisation in Croatian society and the Croatian economy. In this comparison, data are that for this year, and in previous years, the growth in the world of the economy was at 5%, and this year it decreased and dropped at a rate of 4.3%, and measures are being taken to remain at the same level in the following year. So it's the same level. That, in the European Community or in the European Union, in this year's movement was, in fact, 2% in this year about 1 and a half percent, so the same trend is falling. That in the coming years there's a war to grow treasure in the next year, and then that's how it continues to grow. Why does this matter to us? The world's largest engine is China. China and I have only, I think, import jobs and from export jobs at the moment it seems to me that with China or nothing or very little. Thus, such a greater impact of the faster growth of the world’s economy could not have a direct reflection on our movements. However, since there has been a stagnation in the European Union compared to the previous year in the economy, we point out that it had a negative impact on our economic business and the environment and that in these relations the biggest partners are located right next to Slovenia, Italy, Germany, Austria and that, therefore, in a reduced rate of economic growth, the demand for our goods as our main partners has been reduced, and at the same time, the inflow of tourists from that area is the fastest growing in this year in recent years. Maybe even from the draft Croatian state. E precisely in such a company should point out that in the Croatian state, I now present several data on developments in the Croatian state that can be compared to these movements, and then see what is the situation in the country and whether it is or whether it is in danger of recession or still has stable growth and progress. So far, according to these estimates, the main engine or engine of production in Croatia was personal consumption. I'm talking about this year, special spending, and in the next year, in the next period, it's estimated that public spending will grow and in addition to some of the income provided this year, it seems to me somewhere around 16 billion increased revenues for such a purpose as to interpret that such public spending should also give an impulse for personal economic growth. Also, the data on employment and unemployment that I will once again show, so if time allows and quotes the position of the CNB that gives a completely different picture than we hear these days or in this time. And therefore, I just want to be able to make it easier now in this time to show movements in our country to the transition of the growth of the social gross product in Croatia, which reflects in its way the growth rates in this year and is particularly encouraged by the significant tourist inflow which is taking place by the end of the year, but also by the end of this year, and by the assessment of the movement in the coming time. In this year, it is estimated in the end that it could be around 3.9% slow, with a slight increase of 4, four one, up to four three becoming the last year in which it is observed. Thus, when it is combined with movements in Europe and other movements, then it clearly indicates that it has a stable growth. Inflation. I once again use the opportunity to say that it's estimated about three or three that it's going to be in this year and cut in the next three to two, two, eight. But it should point out another way that inflation is largely based on the rise in the world market's price of oil and what is particularly reflected in our production, and thus the exports of iron and steel production because it is used mostly later in exports. Therefore, these are two inflationary influences that Croatia cannot and cannot influence, but is therefore neutralized through a slight increase in goods exports, and even faster, a significant increase in services. In this way, the movements of this foreign debt and the movements through this economic relationship with abroad and current payment account deficits should be observed. I point out once again that in this year it will be estimated this currency around five nine, that in the next year it will be challenged at five... gradual reduction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Foreign debt should be stabilised in this year probably eighty-three and something percent will be done, but it should be done everything in the next year to stabilise at around 83% of GDP in the coming time. I also point out once again that borrowing on the domestic market is a matter of course of different weights. It was also an emergency for the reason that could be secured from possible dangers, the risks of foreign debt, first. Secondly, the domestic capital market that started to function this year was to be developed. Therefore, it will produce results in the next time. And finally, a deficit that is one of the criteria, one of the criteria. This year's deficit may be spinning, but given the base that started somewhere around 4.2% and the trend is dropping so that we can safely estimate that it also gives certainty that this deficit will not grow as some predict. And it should also point out that the debt of the general state is stabilised, that today is estimated at 45.3% already in the next 44. So absolutely with a rate below 50%. Here's the information that's been officially published. And finally on the budget just to say that budget revenues are growing, that about 39 billion and some revenue, that about 98 billion and some expenditure, that incomes are growing at a rate of seven two, which means faster than expenditures that grow at a rate of 6.3%. Therefore, this also points to the same positive movements within it and ultimately it should be pointed out that these data also point to certain developments, that the code, we can point out, in the VAT, estimates that it is especially from the growth of the effects of tourism growth as well as other economic activities, and possibly still follows monetary control of bank placements. Because a significant incentive for domestic consumption was a strong lending. Therefore, all tendencies point to positive movements within society and there is no reason for pessimism, except for those because some of us wear glasses, and some do not. Therefore, it is an individual problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48355	Thank you very much. 15 replicas. Yeah, okay. The first replica of Gordana Sobol's respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48356	Mr. President, with all due respect to your fellow Wrestler that you tried to point out the situation in our neighbouring or wider environment, I still think that the citizens were wearing glasses or not, I wear them ultimately wondering whether, therefore, the citizens of our country would be interested in whether the next or some years behind the projection of this budget would be better than they are today. They are interested in what the country will do in the next year and the years to come at, say, the opening of new jobs, how many plans it is to open. What it does and what it will do to improve the situation of the pensioners and to reduce the large differences between them. Which makes the average four-member Croatian family live better than they do this year. With the glasses I wear I have to say that I couldn't find in this budget any arguments and that any of these categories that I counted next year would be better. I would like once again to remind you that 720,000 workers in this country receive a salary below average. 35% of workers are forced to work in black, and the four-member family is involved in various ways to survive from month to month. Last night we heard messages from your ranks in terms of that and even the objection, and who's to blame for practically having two, three cell phones, which you imagine 200,000 citizens of this country want to go to winter this year, and who knows how many next year they're going to want to go on vacation. With such messages, citizens' standards next year, and even in years it will not be any better.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48357	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48358	Thank you very much to you, ma'am, and also to others who have responded to the replica, because I'm going to try now, of course, because it's too short a time to base the data on showing movement in society. I am, too, because time is really too short to point out the structure of the budget, the overall relationship tried only with data that are officially and publicly available to paint what is happening in the world and what rate of growth and acceleration and stability in Croatia compared to our environment, the first neighbours and the European Union to which we seek. As far as I've been able to do that, or to convince anyone of the information that's been published, I'm really not a magician here, and I can't help those who can't figure it out. But I'm using my colleagues for you to respond to your replica using official CNB data, November 2005, so if you need to... Page seven. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The seventh party which clearly shows for this year, and from it a movement assessment for the next period which clearly indicates a decline in unemployment rates and an increase in the employment rate. Also, when we talk about real wages, we can have a personal attitude of any kind. We're talking about averages and real wages in society. Take a look at real salary trends in society according to monetary policy. This is not my position, and I have therefore used different data sources to be able to plastically show that others think otherwise, i.e. that these are official data used in monetary and then, of course, in part of this policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48359	Another replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48360	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, Mr Prtenec did not mention Croatian defenders and 11.48% of planned funds for care and care for Croatian defenders in his 2006 presentation on the Croatian Budget. These include disability and family pensions of 311 million and 994 thousand and 213 kuna. After that, permanent rights, enforcement of powerful judgments, enforcement of powerful judgments for unpaid obligations from earlier years, one-time rights, orthopedic aids, psychosocial assistance to victims of the Homeland War, employment of Croatian defenders, housing care, maintenance of facilities and apartments. Associations of defenders from the Homeland War have also been set up to increase funds. In fact, through this all that I have listed clearly and it is evident that real concern and concern through our government at the moment is so much so that these 11.48% are also real needs that have been caused and debts from 2001 to new solutions, and they have not been paid to date and what is to come, and this is the application of the law and new solutions to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers since 1.1.2005. Namely, it must be said that certainly Croatian defenders are those who created the Croatian state, defended and freed each one, this shift of concern and concern in increasing funds, and especially in permanent rights is certainly welcome and commendable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48361	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48362	Well, thank you very much. It's cultural, and obviously it's the tendency of these discussions to respond to each of the replicas. I try to answer everything with dignity and facts and arguments, and sometimes there depends on the question, so I guess it answers. In that amount of pension insurance for next year, salary insurance, social security insurance that includes all social categories of society, including defenders and the most massive population, the funds are secured under the applicable law that has been amended and in this year, something in the last year. Therefore, in general for all these categories of isolation, they were finally and significantly stabilised in the last year. Finally, there was a return to the dignity of Croatian defenders who had previously been criminals, who were mainly arrested, arrested, imprisoned, interrogated and possibly in the most difficult situation since the war days. It took time to survive, and it was meant to restore these people to at least minimum dignity, and that dignity was measured partly through this financial part, but much more through that human part. And in that sense, the return of dignity to the defenders, this government, however, has provided for, and that we are all criminals and all those who rob something, I do not want to set an example. I was a defense attorney, but I don't have defense status. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48363	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48364	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prgent's representative to speak, that of course when talking about the budget, then he talks with different aspects of the opinion, but that it is necessary to do it justifiably. I'll try to challenge some of his allegations. He says that this budget is primarily macroeconomicly stable and gives social security to the citizens. The macroeconomic may be stable but low-level. And that's actually a fundamental and key question that you obviously don't want to understand. The development rate of 4% is low for the Croatian economic and political moment. I understand your partnership with countries, with the old European Union countries that have development rates of 1 and a half to 2%, but gentlemen, on the GDP of 30,000 euros. And we're talking about 7 or 6 and a half thousand euros of ours. You need to know that we need a 4 times higher development rate in order to equalise the pace of progress with the developed countries of Europe, and we need more than 4 times the development rate to begin to reduce the difference between the old countries of Europe and us. See what's going on in the new countries of Europe. You don't have one that doesn't have a development rate below 6%, and they're not rare development rates and they're not 9%. So if new European Union countries can have these development rates, then I guess Croatia can. As far as social stability and security are concerned, I'm only going to say one sentence that I said last night in my debate. There's no room for little peasants in this budget. Small peasants, 350 thousand people, after this budget and another such budget become the social problem of this country, just like those 300 thousand unemployed officials and workers, and you will have 650 to 700 thousand social cases on your back. Peasants become social cases. You must finally understand that this country has a fundamental problem. The lack of economic policies through which basic employment problems must be addressed, and employment can only be solved by development and by developing not at any rate but at 7, 8 or more percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48365	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48366	Well, I also said in the debate that making any arguments to some people, I repeat only to individuals, doesn't mean much. Even once a colleague said, no matter how many arguments you make, and the arguments are evidence, the facts, I don't accept. So I think that in these relations, it's unnecessary for anyone to replicate, or respond to a replica. However, I would still like to respond here to Mr. Tomcic with such two attitudes or two assessments about it. It is necessary, because when it's said that something is weaving what it's like if it's not compared to anything, then I don't really know what it is. It is that the conditions of war and the situation have led to what they have led to and, of course, much faster and much higher growth rates would be useful. We all want it the same way before, and now we do, and they happen and anyone ever. However, even at such a low rate, the funds are very much unreal and economically spent on development, Mr. Tomcic. So I'm just going to give you the data, and your party and some of the people from your party, I absolutely believe with your support, 800 million kunas isolated and prepared from the State Budget in 2003 seem to me elemental and other disasters weren't placed at the time, but by party similarity before the elections given to those municipalities or counties in which you were mostly on, or had ambitions to be in power. And secondly, in the peasants, here's the information that I brought out earlier, that even this year, it's much faster to grow food production, drink and others, regardless of whether it's on stock, but even in export, it's growing that production. Therefore, this government will be able to take care of its own, of the peasants and of its population.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48367	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48368	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a fellow Wrestler, I'm wearing glasses just to get a good look at this budget, and from this budget, you can't read social security or macroeconomic stability what it's supposed to look like. But, by the way, a colleague of the Wrestle is not 800 million for a natural disaster but 400 million kuna for a natural disaster that is divided not by a political key but by the way that they are elemental, as the damages have occurred. I know it may be wrong for you and I'm sorry, but it's a fact. As far as social security is concerned. Social security in this budget cannot even see 300 000 unemployed, as this budget shows that there will be no significant new employment. Social security in this budget is not seen by 300 to 500 thousand small farmers who are excluded from the incentive system. Social security from this budget is not seen by pensioners whose average pension is now 42% compared to the average salary paid, while in 31.12.2003 it was 44.71%. Dear colleague of the Prpetniks, all this will be justified by the state in which you found the Republic of Croatia in 2003. I hate to mention it, but I must say that in 2000, the coalition government also ran the Republic of Croatia with a growth rate of minus 0.9% and led to 5.1% in 2003 with continued growth of that rate. Unlike these budgets and this government, which has managed to reduce that growth rate to 4.3 and 3.9 and 3.8, and now 3.6. If that's our economic stability, then fuck us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48369	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Wrestler.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48370	Maybe you shouldn't answer all the lines, maybe this is one of the ones you shouldn't answer, because when I listen to Mrs. Lalic then I hear stories that I'm not sure someone else wrote in any case, so she read it. Now that's below the level I wanted to go. Why? Just as the thesis and arguments, quasiarguments try to bring down the data and facts and stories about how we found Croatia... I will only say for myself, from my point of view. We did not find Croatia, we created it with all the victims. And as for social security, debt returns and pensioners. So the pensioners for the first time and this government has finally joined and reached an agreement, it is obviously wrong for some to reach an agreement with the pensioners that this unfortunate return of theirs and claims is made. And as for the elemental disasters and the political incomparableness, I was as mayor, and you see, for three years now, so I didn't want to talk about it. He was one of the naughty and indecipherable whose county in the spring of 2003 seemed to me to have had the fearsome ice and its fruits and vegetables in bloom just then perished. An estimate of 21 million kuna. Although the government, Prime Minister Racan, was with all my partners, I defended in my county and said there was no other elemental drought, because then in the spring, we suffered everything from ice. But from that 21 million kuna ice, you know how much I got? Zero! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48371	Thank you. This is where the president wrote, I think I'll make it in order. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević, Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48372	Assist our esteemed colleague of the Rifle that this budget is balanced. For the first year of the government's rule, the budget for Zadar County has been reduced four times, then last year six times and now it has reached a balanced zero. That amount was, therefore, the first time it fell, four times higher when you sir were mayor, and Prime Minister Ivica Racan because we didn't see who was where in power. As far as defence care is concerned, Galovac Municipality is blocked, its giro-account is blocked because the Law on Defence is not respected. Several defenders have been employed, but the state is not paying them what is legally due and is now blocked. You even claimed to Mr. Chief that why he complained to me that now that money would never get, and unfortunately it was, because now the gyro-calculation is blocked. And otherwise, politicians like to get high. What height is that? In the name of which elevation you sent generals to The Hague, and we didn't arrest anyone who wasn't needed or deserved it, nor was it the task of this, of any authority, but by the law of the police. But you were sentenced before the Croatian court and not before the court in The Hague with a very uncertain fate. And one more thing, you like to get high, unfortunately it's defeated, a sad fact that during the mandate of this government never again suicides, unfortunately and the suicides of defense attorneys. And now you're talking about dignity! You're talking about illegal arrest. In the budget of this year, you provide 3 million kuna for the payment of unwarranted detainees, last year it was about 700 thousand. So you're planning to, and you already know what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48373	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Chest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48374	Well, Mrs. Anticevic, here's what I've been really trying to do, and I've been kind of struggling not to replicate and answer for three years. But after her persistent insistence today, we will only give a mild introduction, and then we will continue. Mrs. Anticevic, we know each other too well from Zadar, and it would be a shame to transfer these relations to this House here. Unlike you, I have personally sacrificed, and in this way I have contributed as many as thousands of others to the creation of this country and to the creation of the general and when you mention this status to me and to the generals, then I do not accept the debate because you have not given any pain of freedom to the general and do not lecture you. ... I'm talking to her. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Secondly, I'm now moving on to the official section. I'm talking to her, not the SDP. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48375	I ask you to provide a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48376	You fought, but I don't know why. Second, when it's official...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48377	No offense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48378	Second, when it comes to disabled people and fake disabled people. Mr. Beštek brings a leg, I don't know what kind of, um, artificial on the table, and he has to prove he's a fake cripple. And secondly, when I was mayor, I know what catharsis I was going through, but there will be more replicas and answers and we will find ways, but I just want to say about Zadar and the development of Zadar. This year it is now being built in Zadar and next year the two largest local projects no matter how we got to them, because we had permanent projects for 3, 4, 5 years in advance, no matter what the government came up with. In this way, Zadar 2 and is now the largest road project in Croatia and the eastern waterway, the largest project in Croatia, while you claim to have received nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48379	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48380	Here's what I'd like to do is, I'd like to de-polomeze a little bit with a colleague of the Rifle who said that this budget provides social security and that we need to speak with arguments and official data. It is absolutely acceptable to me that your rhetoric should be spoken with official data and that arguments should be used, however, these particulars and arguments do not go into favour, unfortunately, of what you have claimed to be guaranteeing social security. Why isn't that so? It is not because there are no additional funding for pension coordination provided in this budget, and we have already had a real pension drop compared to the average salary in the last two years. So we were at 44% two years ago, and now we have 42% pensions relative to the average salary. There is no means, therefore, for further harmonisation to increase that amount in the share of the average salary. There is also no money to comply with some irregularities within the pension system because individual categories with the same years of employment, with the same salary they received due to different retirement leave, have completely different pensions. That's how it's gonna stay. There won't be social security or inflation. So she was in 2003. 2.2%. She's already at the State Statistics Office 4.1%. So this little thing that's going to grow and pensions and wages is going to eat inflation like this. And secondly, there's no salary growth, so no pension in this budget. And finally, the problem is that we're full all the time, so for two years, here's a third already, we're fighting which group we're going to give the same amount of money to. So the problem is that I'm asking you to change logic, to start with the development of the country because until we start doing more, we can really just waste time here how to distribute this little money that we have in the budget. So our story for 2 days and yesterday and today is precisely to invite you to go into the development of Croatia, to create new jobs and create new values because it is the only thing that can ensure a better life for the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48381	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Armsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48382	So maybe here's just three thoughts about this because they're more focused on the budget, so the answer in that sense. Yes, social security was increased at this stage because most of the laws last year were passed, a promotion to the previous year. Therefore, this year the laws will be implemented as well as the execution of pensions that are consistent with the formula that has been established regardless of the good they have been or bad. But it guarantees both salary growth and the impact of inflation. Therefore, security is an insurance for such increases next year. That's the first item. Secondly, the development of a new investment. I haven't arrived for a short period of time, I hope when we're in a more normal discussion about the guidelines of development or anything to give, also try to give your pain in that sense. I've been pushing a major development project for many years, and unfortunately, at this point, I still can't solve this problem. Greenfield Investments, the biggest in the moment could be the "greenfield" investment in Croatia, in which, again for the sake of dignity, I will not mention neither the name nor the people, unfortunately cancelled overnight, to me for famous but incomprehensible reasons that the investment cannot go forward at all, and we are talking about employment and development. Here in this sense it is difficult to talk about some long-term business in which someone has no other interests, but I hope that finally power will become some consensus about these developmental interests. So in that sense, this budget provides an additional 16 billion,... Therefore, for public consumption which will contribute to the overall demand on the domestic market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48383	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48384	Well, let's just say I'm sorry that anyone pulled their own argument because I think it deserves to be once a year, so if I have to talk about the budget for three days and four days. It's an essential political issue. It would be bad to turn into naked ideology and some disqualification, not God's personal nature. For me here is the basic question of how politics in Croatia works. This can also be seen on this example. Namely, a colleague of the Brass said that the budget was public. It seems to me precisely that this budget is not transparent enough to be transparent, especially in that part of what happened before we got it on these benches. To be clear, my question is: indeed, where does the Croatian budget go? Are there any parallel authorities? They don't even have to be model set up by HDZ or SDPs. Are there parallel centres of power in Croatia? How is politics happening in Croatia? Do quasi-elite rule in Croatia? Are the recents who have money that affect political developments in Croatia regardless of political parties? How many of us as parliamentarians and as the highest legislative body in Croatia can we defend the sovereignty of the Croatian people here and bring this budget? My question really isn't an accident. That is, you spoke here and about ensuring social security, but we are increasingly losing common security. It's all connected. Are we a society that doesn't just sink on "transparency international" lists by the degree of strengthening corruption. Are we a society that sinks into the disorganized savagery of organized crime that spreads to politics? It seems to me, not accusing anyone, it seems to me that on these issues...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48385	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48386	...we can answer talking about the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48387	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Chest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48388	Here, the questions may have been partly or mostly out of the budget. But I still express my view of 2, 3 of these questions. And it is, so I also said in the introduction that when it comes to the budget that he is of interest to everyone in the country, everyone is inciting and that is the political issue. But he usually carries with him those discussions that could neither be under budget nor through, on a political issue that would point him towards some direction. We often hear grades from different times or phenomena. And in that sense my comment on the budget was showing arguments, the fact that it meant stability for personal growth and that it simply meant better for all citizens. And if that were insufficient, we'd all want more. We'd all like to go from the budget to the maximum social needs and actually sit down as the old thesis was "work as much as you can, and the state has to provide you with what you need". Because there's no more trouble. What can be ensured with the desired development in the coming time must now be ensured. The problem of corruption, so you know very well that corruption is as old as society. In total, not Croatian, but in the world. Just look at the countries, and so does Europe. In the end, if there wasn't a problem with corruption, thieving and all that, so they wouldn't need the courts, the police wouldn't need it. So it's a problem that all social categories will meet at all times. And it is that this particularly public security must do everything possible to bring it down to a higher level. But then the remarks that we have the number of officers according to the same state of the criteria that Switzerland or any other country has. Given the situation, the consequences of war are difficult to accept. Therefore, this is exactly the message when we talk about the budget to see what can be done in employment, in the development of the status of these categories of people who protect society.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48389	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48390	So he said to his colleague, "This budget gives us social security." Maybe that kind of social security pleases him. Me and my clubmates aren't happy and they won't satisfy us that long, no matter who's in power, while we have over 300 thousand unemployed. What is their social security if we say that we are now going to introduce some employment promotion measures that are going to employ 5,000 people in one year? I highly doubt that entrepreneurs will be involved in this action if it is a similar action at the 8th month precisely from the government abandoned as inefficient. What is social security for millions and 100,000 pensioners whose share of their pensions falls as in average salary from 44 to 42%. In the following year, perhaps a little less since we are going back to a new formula for harmonising pensions and that these 600 kuna differences between old and new pensions may be 610, 620 and perhaps a little more kuna. What is social security when we hold the same budget base over 3% of inflation for 2 years on the basis of certain social benefits? What kind of social security is this for the sick who will fill the health budget with 350 thousand kuna this year just because they will pay an administrative fee, but at the same time they will not get the cost of the trip when they take their children to mandatory therapy and in my Međimurje County, but one third of the family has given up regular therapy for their children because they can't single out 2,000 kuna per month to take the children to the first hospital where they can get such a service. What is social security when people who own property no matter how much dividend they get will not pay taxes, but those who buy a new apartment, who are tenants, will no longer have such a relief in the calculation of income tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48391	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48392	And there would actually be, and it's also timeless to repeat that debate from the beginning, from the introduction and bring out once more data, but obviously that's not enough either, so I'll just once again answer the data that the total social benefits, the total salary and the total pension in this budget are fully secured under the existing laws. Therefore, there is no longer any risk or concern that people will get neither what comes out of what time, no matter what time or time the governments were, or who managed the state, and I remember in our past, I repeat again, regardless of the situation that was and who and how often we waited on the lines not only of the doctor, but also of coffee, but also of a liter of gasoline or oil and many others, or of bread. Thus, in this time, we believe that the time of stabilisation and security must come and that society must be stabilised so that we can move forward. This is through this budget, which I repeat once again needs to be encouraged and that part of public spending is encouraged, regardless of all the problems which entails then debt and public spending, investment and demand in production, and that in this way one part of employment and industrial production could be encouraged, but through further promotion of investments, especially external investments, and through the next period during which only the adoption, i.e. the start of negotiations with Europe, will find a more favourable situation on the financial market and also a more favourable situation in economic and economic relations. Therefore, there is no doubt that these times are much more favourable than they have been and that these times also come before us more favourable, and in that sense I simply believe that this Budget must provide these categories and that society with security, stability and forwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48393	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48394	The esteemed colleague of the Wrestle has well begun by sticking to the facts, I respect that, and I will also present some with the hope that I will stick to them until the end. He stressed that the budget is stable, etc., that's good, but let's ask the question of what the economy is, what is employment like? Here are three facts. First, the average profit rate in the Croatian economy is 5 and a half percent according to the latest data. This means that it takes 18 years, during the return it takes 18 years to invest something to eventually return if you work in a Croatian company or start it and ask why there are no new products or new businesses and entrepreneurs? Please, what is the government doing in this area? We're discussing a plan and a project for next year. By which, you are the chairman of the Budget Committee, we are promoting the situation that the return rate is not 20 years. Second, you say the debt is stabilized. Well, yesterday we spoke fine, but look at the total external debt of a colleague of Prtvenjac Croatia in the first year and 8 months of your government, the total external debt of Croatia increased 4.2 billion euros. This is a normal amount, these are the latest data from the Croatian National Bank. Please, at the same time, the state is in charge of the internal market of 20 billion and you're very boastful of it, but you know when Business and other banks put this into the state budget, so it's listed in consumption they couldn't give to businesses. And please, talk about the rate of growth. The global growth rate is 5%. You're saying it's slowing down. So look what the latest results of "SASEX" are about. Ours is three and three and a half percent. What are we going to do to be at least at the level of that global average? Look, I said yesterday what Finland, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia, Slovakia, Ireland did. Ireland is now going into a new plan with 52 billion for science and education. So, how are we gonna get to them? What do you suggest we catch up with someone? Not Ireland, but... And Bangladesh to forgive me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48395	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Chest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48396	It is, of course, when you and I and anyone else out of context take out the data that fits it, they give away their mirror. But when you put in a three-dimensional picture, the situation is different. Here in this sense, trying to answer this question raises a fundamental question about the state of the economy. It is my concern as much as you and everyone in this country, but I also have an answer or an attempt to answer, not to search for alibis far from it, but the structure of the branch economy, by sectors found in the country, and you know very well that in the former Yugoslavia, it has concentrated towards republics across different branches and has almost been marginally targeted and such a planned economy has experienced through this time dry weather, regardless of the three historic transformations today with all the consequences and one of the historical transformations is the transition from the planous socialist to the market economy. Another owner with all the consequences of good, bad, there are also extremely good ones. No one mentions Todorovic, I try to bring up a tanker in Zadar, so the reaction to me is what you're saying. Well, of course positive examples and a lot of others, but she also experienced a technological transformation. We actually at this time couldn't especially in wartime because of the situation of the market in domestic and demand and the destroyed economies could affect such a structure. Therefore, the answer that such a changed structure, a changed market, changed relationships mean absolutely this situation that we have today and, of course, we all have to advocate it, and when it comes to external debt and debt, so Mr. Churchvenac would not tell you, but in general, in one year there was a one-year debt in one year it seems to me to be 8.9 billion, and now it's too much 4 or I don't know how much you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48397	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48398	Thank you very much. Your claim is interesting that this budget ensures social security as interesting as Mr. Djakic's claim that you did not mention the defenders. What's fundamental? We in Croatia have 300 thousand unemployed, we have a million pensioners who have pensions below two-thirds of their needs, we have defenders who report PTSD instead of jobs. Those defenders, these unemployed, these pensioners don't want to be social cases and they don't deserve it. They want to work and provide their families with the existence, get a pension, and also the backlogs that belong to them. A budget that supports a 4% development rate of course does not provide it. This budget has no indication of the life and social needs of citizens, it has ambitions to support stakeholders from ruling groups including some other political options and associations. These stakeholders and their leaders are getting budgetary crumbs, but they are politically obedient and they are not talking about the real needs of those who should be present here in the Assembly, and to say once again, they are defenders, unemployed who want to work, who want to ensure their existence and their families, and they do not want to be social cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48399	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Chest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48400	... Some of the claims about social security, the rest on several occasions would be even pointless and I believe that those who listen to themselves are enough, and that this other stance of the defender and the rest. [[Specially enabled.]] So I've already said and I really don't want to, you see interestingly I'm repeating myself as a personal defender, so I haven't appeared at all in these three years in debates about it, not considering that I wouldn't in any way try, let's say lobby, fight or anything but fight for the common good and general phenomenon. The defense attorney, so we know the situation that we've been in and out of today, the trauma we've been experiencing with all the consequences. They're defenders, there's a population that's still working. Well, the government is trying to look for a solution, and for those groups that can still work, but at least they've secured the integrity, secured material security last year when we passed the law, and that law will be implemented. However, in the favor of the ruling, you point out the favor of the ruling. I've told you before and now I'm saying here's another piece of information and before that one. When you were a minister at that time, God forbid I was responsible for why banks increase the criteria for using credit and why loans were not used at some rate. Like the elemental ones, I repeat again. However, it was a wonderful alibi which was so transparent that it couldn't be an argument then or now, I can easily knock it down. And I'm asking you the opposite question because you're at the end of the HSS. Which is 600 million kuna for the restructuring of agriculture in 2003 and where they ended up, that is, what was done with the combined and unfortunately not completed process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48401	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, the Honorable Representative of the Wreath, the replica for me is an opportunity to state my position for the sake of the citizens and is no personal matter towards you or any representative. And when it comes to your position that you have raised in the debate that this budget is social and that it offers social security I must repeat no matter how many times this is mentioned. Your Honor, Mr. Squirt, it's not a dispute and I don't dispute your exact allegations, but we have a different policy and we represent a different policy. It cannot be said that social security is provided by these budgets unless it provides development and raises the competitive capacity of Croatian economy and Croatian society because it is an official policy, it could be said, national policy is a market economy and integration into the European Community, the European Union. And that lagging won't help either the pirate or the good perception of the budget. Another argument, that the budget does not provide social security. If we continue with this kind of development of citizens who are now looking for a job and can't find it, we couldn't get a job in 35 years. Croatia still has 300,000 unemployed of its citizens to worry about. If we add that this budget provides for the deepening of gaps between new and old pensioners and that new pensioners will have an even worse social picture, it is a denial of your attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48403	The answer to the replica is a representative of the Chest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48404	I won't try to deny anything, I respect your attitude, but I also express my position. So, in that case, when I'm represented by anyone who offends me, I'm not going back with the same measure, but at least a little bit because that way I have to actually run that part of the debate where I appreciate that everyone has a position, but also I'm setting up certain dilemmas. Here, once again with this social security, you point out your position on security and uncertainty. I can only ask the opposite question. Which with social security has been in recent times when working categories have experienced a correction of their rights to the lowest levels of 45. I'm not happy, neither are you. I agree. And we need to coordinate them together. Therefore, let us not say that it is today or that it is happening today, but that these rights are now found, I repeat, in those categories of last year something has been raised and in this budget such insurance for such payments and such stability is guaranteed, which is more important that they do not come at risk of getting a pension in two or three months or any other compensation coming in that category of social groups. The second question of the development rate is yes, but this is the first time we see this budget in coordination and Europe's negotiations has already offered us access to this year, I don't know by heart now, that you're not dragging me, between 400 and 500 million kuna, but from the European potential funds precisely to coordinate for development in different areas. And further discussions on screening and recording will mean further withdrawal of those funds. Now the real question is whether regional or how the state will prepare for it. Therefore, that part of the funds will also be a contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48405	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48406	Thank you very much. A fellow Assumption, only arguments, only facts without ideology. You were talking about the number of unemployed and mentioning some HNB statistics. Here, here I have an open screen for the movement of the number of unemployed persons per year of the Croatian Employment Service. Clearly, in 1991, this growth of the unemployed begins. From about 150 grand he jumps suddenly to 250 grand. Then two, three years of improvement, then growth there again by mid-2001 to 400 grand. The problem then begins to resolve and falls by 100,000. And now for two years, the number of unemployed has been moving about 300 grand, 5 grand up, 5 grand down. Here, the other day, the information went over 300 grand. It's not that alarming. He'll fall again with some seasonal employment but still not for more than five grand, so he'll come back. We've been spinning for two years. We haven't done anything about that 300 grand. And not that we didn't do anything but lift the employment incentives that hired 80,000 people and that's what we're telling you. So what you went to end and what you're doing in this budget, what's good. Well, if you'd kept it, 80,000 more people would have been hired, so we wouldn't have 300,000 of them, but 220,000. So it would be a second year easier. And that's what we attack in this budget. Not for ideological reasons, not because it is proposed by the HDZ, but because these solutions are not good. It is not good to eliminate incentives for employment when you see that your problem is not solved, that you are about 300 thousand people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48407	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Armsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48408	Here's two, three explanations, just a fellow intern. It may be inappropriate to comment but unemployment is a problem from 1991 to today. You know what five years of war means, 2/3 of Croatia occupied, the economy directly destroyed because it is mentioned in 1991 and people mobilized and in war activities. Therefore, the company from 1991 to today could not stand. I pointed out the information and once again I show it about unemployment. According to the CNB data and now in November this year and in the results of the jobless, here are only the data and the question, this is actually the answer to your question or to your finding why we did not continue with the employment model that the last government had brought and ended somewhere in early August this year. The government, this government has given up on the model simply for failing to deliver results and, as usual, when the Croats have already prepared themselves, they have been using large ones who have not actually hired new ones. Thus, absolutely in these two months, it was not possible to continue to seek a solution that would mean a shift in employment. That model obviously spent all the time behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48409	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48410	Thank you, Vice President. Social security, the budget is the third year of our government's term of office, the third year that says 300 thousand unemployed. No change, no third year. Are we aware of the weight of those words? The third year 300,000 has no movement. But let's try to tell if there was any solution. Yes, a refinery in Sisak, a refinery in Rijeka. HT money for private companies on software programs, two power plants, yes, gentlemen, that's what's important to say. That's what's important to say. INA, HT, water industry and unfortunately HEP. And why aren't we investing? Well, we've heard a minister who says no, gentlemen, not gentlemen, will not be in debt, we won't be using INE's winnings, it won't be, not just security for workers in these companies, not for private entrepreneurs because they won't have that market. But it's not just the unemployed, it's the problem of exporting gentlemen. He's exporting energy. Because instead of the importers, we could have been exporters. It's goods for our export, but we won't. Three years of our government. That's the statistics, that's the real data. But Mr. Squirt, you started waving HMB papers and reading numbers, but I'm following your lines by disqualifications that don't write HMB's report, and there's been disqualifications both by Pecek and Tomcic and Lalic and Antichevsky, so just keep going. I like to hear that argument that doesn't say in the National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48411	Thank you, reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Chest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48412	Thank you very much. I've been very nice and culturally discussing that part of the official data. When I was offended, I responded with a mild response compared to what I was offended by, without giving HMB then and it is worth it in advance. So I don't mention HMB to you all the time, and I don't mention anyone else. But Mr. Linic said yesterday I won't be cynical. But I didn't experience any of your arguments without it being in that tone. Even when it comes to personal relationships. I'm trying to talk now and I'm not going to talk for now, and I could mention some cases that you directly influenced in Zadar but I won't. Here's my word I won't. There's time. I'm trying to answer, let's go, to two conflicting questions. Who made the sale of the HT majority package and who did the INE sale. I don't have an answer, this government isn't and I'm not answering any further. Keep going. What we are talking about is the project and the effects of employment that has been and given great hope in solving the employment problem. So it lasted until August, until a month and a half ago, until two months ago. What effect, even its effects, should be in large-scale employees this year, so we have a condition that is. So, I'm just pointing out those failures, the failures that have even had a cumulative effect on the situation that we have and that in this phenomenon certainly was your contribution very important, both in one and the other. Both in INI and HT. So don't call me and call me and the government has this and they'll find a way out of it. And this development and encouragement next year. We remember the debate at the beginning of the year. You'll sell out the land this year. Here, end of the year, end of November, no sales at all. No privatisation. Therefore, there is enough time left to decide rationally and reasonably how to deal with Croatian assets ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48413	Thank you. Here. We've exhausted all the replicas, we're moving on. The word has an esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48414	When I say that the state budget is the most important document of a country, it's one fact that we'll all agree on. But the usual refrain that is repeated in almost all the budgets about him being social, developmental, transparent and equally valid for all of us is, of course, just an external effect or a final manifestation of something that almost no one is seriously considering. The fundamental position of each budget is the answer to the very simple question whether the budget is active, or passive. Whether the budget is active in relation to the problems and needs of society or not. This budget, unfortunately, and most of the budget did not find enough courage to be active, on all those problems that it as a very important part of the instruments should be launched. To clarify these relations that ultimately dictate the state of one budget or have a significant impact on that position, I will try to explain the position of two of the most important sectors, one of the financial and real sectors. The financial sector we've brought to the level that it's really respectable, that it works. That in financial terms, the financial market in Croatia exists and is relevant, it is adapted to European conditions and standards. But already it warns, alarms, talks about the bad structural consequences of the financial sector. Not just in the fact that banks are almost 100% or majority owned by foreigners. Because money is said to have no nationality or ideology. I agree he doesn't, but a banker has a lot of ideology and nationality. Therefore, I will not say the problems of the financial sector are not just stemming from the fact that they are positioned in the majority foreign ownership. If something like this had happened in neighbouring Italy, believe me, Parliament would have debated for a long, long, long time, and would never have agreed, not one government, not one parliament to end up majority packages of Italian banks in the Italian ports. In any form, in any relationship. It's obviously not like that with us. Whether we should constantly be three steps ahead of others in giving and three steps back in defending our national interests could be discussed. However, the fact that the big problem that the businessmen have, when doing their foreign business, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, in the context of export operations in terms of insurance they must have, has shown that the necessary and unquestionable role of the national bank and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has indeed been bridged three years ago by certain insurance in the export business of small and medium-sized enterprises and this chain has somehow continued. But it is evident that the time has come to consider whether Croatia needs a Croatian National Bank, whether it has other countries located in the European Union. Is that one Hungary? Is one of the Czechs? Does it bother that the entire state administration, the entire administration must function and keep its deposits and work exclusively through the management bank. ... State banks, all deposits are located there and state administrations and local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it clearly has huge mechanisms, incentives, the creation of effects for the development of the national economy. The thing also in the financial sector is not good and our citizens are saying that today in this year, the responsibility of a Croatian citizen has reached a level of 2 000 and 300 euros or that we are the first in Europe to be in charge per citizen. At the same time, European citizens have that responsibility at a level of EUR 650. Russia EUR 300. Ukraine EUR 56. But in any case, we're over-indebted. And total loans amount to almost 63% of gross domestic product and that is the largest in Europe. So we have two variants. Or let us tighten our belts, and say, "Lords, how much we produce, how much we earn, we may be in debt and spend." Or to create macroeconomic conditions, positions to adapt consumption to production in a way that increases production and create conditions that as we have learned to live, so we can continue. We can only do it one of these two ways. I think it's a better way to encourage our own Croatian economy. But in this instrumentation it must contain and the budget is very clear. The instruments of incentives and subsidies say: the state must and should answer a very simple question: what, who, how and for whom will Croatian companies and Croatian industry produce? Because the Croatian economy cannot answer these questions. The issue must be resolved by the state through structural reforms. It is unacceptable and unacceptable that the huge potential and Croatian markets are thus exposed to foreign goods, services, technology that simply there is no room for the strengthening of the Croatian economy. The real sector in relation to the financial sector is not equal. There has been a major imbalance in the functioning of the real and financial sector. The real sector is obliged to put the state on its right feet. And in the textile industry, in the metal industry, the processing industry and all other industries, above all, the wood industry. Such a way can also lead this real sector to be able to monitor the financial sector and bring the citizen society into a position d can further ensure all of the needs and ways of life he has learned to live in. Of course it won't be easy together. Unfortunately, in the Budget, we have no arguments that would contribute to the need to understand the seriousness of the situation in the real sector, the seriousness of the situation in our economy. The seriousness of the state-owned companies no matter what form they were in today. Therefore, changes are also necessary in the tax system that needs to be reformed, and the one that has more money, gentlemen, must pay higher taxes. One who has less money must pay less taxes. The tax system must be equal, very simple, it must be transparent and it must be respected that at this point VAT remains a very important cornerstone of that fiscal policy. Labour legislation must not only be Croatian but the European Union must experience and experience transformation, and it is one of the main generators that speaks about when increased investment will occur. Investments in Croatia are the most debilitating thing. But the infrastructure, that's what we have to do. Not just the so-called. "greenfield" investment rather than in the potentials that are completely forgotten at this point. In this regard, the budget should also consider that privatisation should be adapted to the needs of this society. The decision on whether TLM is going to go to the stock market? Should it be sold or not? You should leave very close consideration. It is my personal view that we should not go, that we should not go because it is evident that aluminium belongs to the century in which we are and the centuries we will enter. It is therefore a strategic branch and Croatia must keep in control of the strategic branch. The budget has another major flaw, and this is one of the main development limiters are spatial plans. The spatial plans are worked and ordered by municipalities, units of local self-government and administration. They don't have enough resources, and at the same time there's no competitiveness in those who make plans. It doesn't exist because there are very few. It was necessary to provide either through a certain agency to do these jobs or to re-establish an urban, urban institute that will work on these plans because at this point the development was stopped just for the sake of spatial plans, for certain misunderstandings in the protected coastal belt because of the fact that if you want a spatial plan to be active on the island and in the coast you must have a fully resolved infrastructure. How a small municipality of two, three thousand inhabitants will resolve their infrastructure to get a spatial plan, to be active in life So she doesn't die. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Not unless this company helps.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48415	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Kovacevic. You have sent your replica to the distinguished representative Markov and I am the chairman. You showed him. I don't know what you're showing him. Well, no, well, I saw me, the honourable representative, I saw but I saw him pointing there, so I thought that something, a correction of an incorrect quote, was a respected representative of Kovacevic. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48416	Dear Mr. Vice President, I have more colleagues: first says Mr. Markov that the state budget is the most important document of a country. It's not or it'll never be. In our country and in every country, your constitution is the first, so your constitutional laws are so ratified international contracts and then the organic laws come. Yes, Mr. Tomiche. Then organic laws come, and organic laws are more important to you than the Constitution. The organic law that will solve this issue that 15 billion kuna is taken, that 15 billion, yes, yes, you hear well. 15 billion kuna to be taken from the gray economy and put into the budget then we come to increase investment. So this part of what Mr. Markov said, so the budget comes at a level of 13, 14, amongst the organic laws. Therefore, do not misreport the public. Like the media says, the most important is the State budget. It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48417	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the honourable representative of Peronja [[Intruder: Why is it the most debated then?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48418	Here's a colleague who's done a great job of dismembering our budget, but one inaccuracy has been seen throughout, through his entire exposure, whether it's active or not. This active budget is in the whole part of it, and this is shown by the programs "The Entrepreneur and the local community" that have made great success. Based on each loan, there are 4.5 new employees. In entrepreneurship zones where results are seen daily from new employment to new opportunities and new jobs. It is also seen in the construction of several schools specifically in the Split-Dalmatin County area, the infirmary and on the coast and on islands, of course and nursing homes. And I would especially point out that it is active in the part where it is said in terms of waste management, municipal waste where new jobs are protected by the environment and where, in fact, without budget money, local development could not be considered at all and Regional self-government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48419	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48420	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished counterpart Markov said there was no help in the State Budget to units of local self-government to develop spatial plans. That quote is incorrect. In the Ministry of Spatial Planning, environmental and construction protection under item 36, funds amounting to €9240000 are provided which are higher by 35.48% than that provided in the last year with explicit purpose. For the development of spatial plans from three million years last year to 6 million and for the development of spatial plans for these small entrepreneurship zones according to the special decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48421	Thank you. We have three replicas. Honorable representative of the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48422	Dear Mr. Vice-President, counterpart Markov stressed the issue of the Croatian National Bank. He meant a Croatian development bank that is not in foreign hands compared to other banks that are mostly owned by foreign governments. As the Croatian banks went into foreign ownership, the real issue is. Croatia simply took its privatisation model to the point that it had to make its own banks a resolution, because taxpayers took money and re-scheduled their banks to buy them, or to take them on the world market. But it would be a good debate, but now it's more important if a colleague Markov talked about it now. I'm saying yes. Croatia can develop its stronger, own financial development lever, if it takes into account what it has today objectively and can from the Croatian Post Bank whose balances are only raised in one year 2002, as some deposits are put into that state bank. Unfortunately, a year ago they were taken out of the state bank again, some government deposits and given to private banks, and that's business. But it's not just a question of the Croatian Post Bank. It's about HBOR that can get even stronger roles but he's developed his role well so far. Croatia's insurance is not privatised as it is now designed because it is a major money collector for a possible Croatian development bank, and there are other instruments. Unfortunately, we do not have any solutions in this policy for next year or in this budget to strengthen this own financial power in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48423	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48424	Thank you very much. Oh, rightly so, fellow Churchman, we need to talk about responsibility today. What can we do today to change such a situation? What happened, we concluded, but it is very clear and clear that it is unacceptable for deposits to be held in private banks that are owned by foreign banks, which are taking certain measures that have a completely discriminatory character like this Bank of the Economy of Zagreb that one nation has the right to preferential treatment and that of Croatian citizens. So we're talking about anomalies that aren't normal, relationships that aren't acceptable, we're talking about correcting those bad decisions that came no matter who made them. Therefore, Croatia can also have a bank owned by Croatian capital in the European Union. We should not call it state-owned, but in the majority ownership of Croatian capital. And to relate this part of which my colleague Shirac was talking about is that enough funding for the nine million-million-dollar plans is just ridiculous. But I was talking about the fact that it's inadmissible that as a result of this ban that's been made all over the islands and the coast is being sold square feet on islands of one to two euros because there are no plans at this point and the country is worthless. It's bought by foreign capital that has money. In ten years, it will change the purpose of the terrain and will be worth 1000 euros. That's what I'm talking about. Space plans can't be brakes or polygons for anyone to come into possession in a quiet, simple way and nobody knows anything about it. It is the task of this Parliament to point to these behaviours that are partly derived from spatial regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48425	Replica esteemed representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48426	A colleague Markov spoke to a serious situation in the real sector, listed some parts of the real sector, and did not apply that he mentioned shipbuilding. Shipbuilding is one of the larger exporters of $600 million a year regardless of how much the net effect is, but it is also important by the number of employees and because it is a significant exporter. Is there a problem with the one-on-one? An estimate of a billion dollars lost, a billion dollars. That's the assessment. The third year of office is this budget. Do we have any indication in this budget of solving the accumulated problems of shipbuilding? Why? Because it's state property and it just needs to be solved. It's the work of the Croatian government. Messages must be sent to the Croatian public to know what will happen to shipbuilding. Because simple shipbuilding will have to be resolved if not in 2006 the seventh is safe because these are messages and other private investors to entrepreneurs working with this Croatian shipbuilding. Is there no solution in this amassed economic branch and they will have problems far more difficult than these here. And on the other hand, employees must know what awaits them. These are messages that the Croatian Government must send with the 2006 budget of the shipbuilding message has not been sent. The problems remain. How he'll get rid of it, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48427	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48428	Thank you very much. Of course, I agree with what counterpart Linic said. I didn't forget simple shipbuilding, I was talking about other aspects of the same thing. Of course, the shipbuilding that generated almost 23% of activities in small and medium-sized enterprises by the 1990s is something that Croatia simply needs. It needs shipbuilding as needed by those who will supply the huge markets that exist in Croatia, primarily the tourist market. What Prime Minister Sanader was also talking about this year, which unfortunately was 50% from imports, and 50% from our domestic fields, that we should change that, and then tourism will have what is often transferred to him by those who do not fully understand what is going on, a double effect in tourism. One effect is that you picked up some money, and the other is the effect that you could sell domestic goods in your foreign currency house. It is this so-called invisible export that exists and can only function in a variant when you have designed and well-organised domestic production, an organised market and an organised system to function. This is the bill I have defended in this Parliament on the promotion of domestic production, for the placement of tourism which unfortunately did not receive support even though we agreed and we discussed it and entered into those laws that we must adopt in terms of approaching the European Union. Unfortunately, however, the Government's "Croatian Product for Croatian Tourism" project did not find a place in the budget, so I was a little surprised. But believe me, if we want tourism to be an export product then it's necessary to give it that function that he must have, which is to sell the domestic product, to strengthen the awareness of the sale, of the production of the domestic product. It's not enough, it's worth what the Croatian Chamber of Commerce says let's buy Croatian, but before that we must say Croatia's products so that we can buy Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48429	Okay. We're done with the replicas. After the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48430	So she would agree with a colleague, Markov, who revealed the story of the state's self-care that went through the law and the regulation on the protection of the coastal belt. It was the care of the state to protect its most valuable resources. And why are foreigners buying this area now? Do strangers know anything more than we do? It's forbidden in that area of anything. The standard of citizens is dropping. Such a citizen is forced to sell his fathers and fathers ’ land so that the child can be educated on his own. Who? A stranger. For how long? It's invaluable. It's your concern and protection for our most valuable resources. Will it become the Mecca of their investments tomorrow? What is for our citizens concreteization is for foreigners to invest foreign capital. So will the Croats in their own country at least become equal with the foreigners, Mr. Minister? I'm replicating him, but this is our joint endeavor. ... Just because it happened, it was his debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I just wanted to use the replica to potentiate that problem to expose itself. In the third year of mandate, how many states have bought by serving the right first purchase of the property of citizens who are... /Intruder: Follow your own example./ [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48431	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48432	Thank you very much. So I want to remove some misunderstandings. I'm not against nature protection, I'm not against the Law of Spatial Planning. I am only in that certain positions of this law that are not in line with the way of life, which are not in line with the needs of this society and which are not in line with how we view our future to remove them as soon as possible. I've talked about it many times. The municipalities and cities at this point have a whole series of limits that make them unable to come up with spatial plans. Not making spatial plans creates not only a vacuum that is very bad for the economy, but unfortunately, an even worse vacuum, which is that the land price on land that has undefined status is on the islands. It is not only bought by foreigners, it is bought by domestic individuals and legal ones who can normally do so. They're buying it for reasons that at this point, given the disorder of books and land, its price is almost ridiculous. And in the future, it will represent a very important resource. This sale, I'm not telling you, has taken so much swings that this action the government has announced will protect certain areas, certain islands. He can't protect them by banning them, but must evaluate the ownership system. Someone owns that field. That field should be fair market damage if you forbid a man to sell it to someone. So he must be compensated. We can't do a new nationalization for God. So I'm saying that we need to be serious about this chapter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48433	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister behind the pillar. Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, here's a few words I'd like to say here. I must start by noting that I will not talk about the importance of the budget as it was evaluated here but I will just say that without the difference where we put the budget by the importance of the document that the budget is important and important to us and that at the moment we are discussing it, I think that we will all agree on it, he is certainly a representative of something for us each of us to talk about. What I'm trying to say at first is that there's not enough money for agriculture in this budget. And that's a fact, no matter what I can through this Mr. Secretary's smile realize that of course the government and he as minister gave as much as he could. But that is the problem of the government and those who are in government and their responsibilities. I am responsible for saying that this level of budget cannot be done with what we have all talked about, which is the preparation of agriculture for the entry into the European Union. I'll make it very clear to you that as far as these preparations are concerned, we have a big job to do, and this job is certainly late. If there's no money, then we'll be able to do the job more loyally, and we won't be able to prepare it in a legal way. I must point out that regarding the very amounts of funds that I will talk about later, there will seem to be a lot of replicas today, and I will be able to answer some more detailed questions in that section. But what I would like to mention at the beginning, we were here, I would like to remind these distinguished MPs when it comes to, for example, Protocol 7, we were talking about some negotiations, etc. and there were speeches and certain ministers that did not cover the area, for example our foreign minister who also understood the problem of agriculture and said that here, when there will be more money, we will certainly give something more for agriculture. Unfortunately, you can't see that in this budget. Since that is already, here is the third budget, so there was time, it could have been directed in a certain part. What is particularly worrying is one fact that has been put in place as a fact, and I think it is not a fact, and that is the only restriction that does not increase incentives, and that is the thing that interests our farmers is the WTO ban. The WTO ban, which has been agreed, is that 136m euros can be invested in direct incentives in direct production per litre and per kilogram. But we didn't wear it out. I'd like to see someone point out exactly when we've crossed the 136m euros and that's why the World Trade Organisation punishes us, sues or something. Therefore, that fact is not correct. It may be some other excuse, but then it's bad when in the budget, as the only excuse, it says that what we signed with the WTO limits us. It can be said, however, that part of the misunderstanding towards agriculture is limited. Some, however, should not be angry with colleagues and colleagues, but still empty promises to all those who advocate agriculture that a certain moment before the date of entry into the European Union will be given additional funds and invested in agriculture. I must say that I did not comment when it was announced in previous, budgets and very ambitious projects. An operational programme of years of plantation, an operational programme for the economy, large irrigation programmes. Unfortunately, today, and we've also found it all together on the board, and it's from people who, in a way, might not take me wrongly as an opposition, people who, for example, are. Dr. Krpina, who participated in the Committee, says out of 70 million kuna of the operational programme for the raising of multi-annual plantations this year, 8 million kunas will be used. It's not working, it's slow, it's impossible to apply. A similar situation, in cattle, is also even more difficult. It's impossible because of certain restrictions. First of all, we have entrepreneurial zones, we have that part of the industrial zones, but we don't have farm zones. Our people can't get building permits, they can't get documents and they can't get into those projects. Unfortunately, therefore, the operational programme will not be met, and unfortunately it will experience a fiasco in that part. What I have proposed and what he has said I would have done well, and surely the proposal that has been implemented to date is capital investment. We have an opportunity in agriculture. Each of our farmers has been helped with capital investments, grants so far, it's 25%. But if we have extra money, let's raise that 30, 40, 50% in technology, let's give those people who want to work in agriculture a chance to catch that trend that's ahead of them, that European producer. If we don't prepare them for that now, I assure you, we won't have a chance for that anymore. We'll have the poor and the poor in the country and there'll be nothing we can do. For them, we must, as we are in reform, in the reform that we lost almost a year and a half in 2000, but we have made a register, we have made it possible for this government that when the Minister of Agriculture comes somewhere when someone asks him how many farmers he has, he doesn't speak in that part 200, 300 or 500 thousand, but he says 139 thousand 231 how many are in the register of agricultural holdings today. It would be a difficult way. It was a hard way to do it. Therefore, the reform must continue, and in that part of the reform let us not forget small farmers. These small farmers will certainly not be able to benefit from these measures that we are talking about here, but they will be able to use what we always advocate, which is to ensure their existence through national pensions. At the end of the term of office of 2003, a proposal related to the national pension was prepared. I think we owe it especially to our small farmers to ensure their existence. The second part of me is extremely important, and that is how we open up land resources. Unfortunately, we talk a lot about state agricultural land that has 450 thousand hectares. A million and 200 thousand hectares is private agricultural land, which unfortunately is not in traffic today. It's in traffic in a very small way, but in order to open up the possibility of much more traffic, we have to advocate in that part that we go as I said with national pensions. I can see that time is running out fast. I still have to mention here. We are and there's a lot of words, there's money in pre-accession funds, we can use them when every time I've discussed it in a certain way it's been said, here's the money now. Yes, and that is one example that unfortunately wanted or refused to admit, we will not be able to use what is before us. The 25m-euro SAPARD programme is ahead of us for 2006. That's 750 million kuna. If you look at the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture for the SAPARD and the possibility of withdrawal is left 37 million kuna. We wrote in advance in this section that we will not use all the funds, of which 70% is non-refundable and 30% is the investment of the state of Croatia where we have better ratios 50:50 but in any case we have offered certain parts to be provided to us, but we have no institutions, we have no prepared things to do so. Rural development remains, although it is a significant increase, we have not fully exploited it. And last time I spoke, let's go take concrete measures. Rural development is a completely open category of nothing is limited, allowing our farmers, I have set an example. Let's get everybody who wants to build a building permit. He'll have to have every farm registered when we enter the European Union, give it back all the way to the last kuna. That's the only way we'll be able to maintain that production. 90% of our facilities aren't registered. We will come to the European Union, we will have a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48435	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48436	Don't lock me up. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48437	Thank you. Time's up. We have 11 replicas and 3 corrections of an incorrect quote. Dear representative Brnadić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48438	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Pankretic said that this budget does not show that agriculture is more isolated. I'll just be quick, because time is short. Investment support by capital investment increases 13%, increase in multi-annual declines 10%, development of cattle production 25%, rural development 50% increase, development of the water supply system 25% increase, protection against adverse effects 100% increase. Likewise, counterpart Pankretic and everyone else are constantly talking about the black hunch of no development. I'll just say that last year's increase in dairy production was 15%, in multi-year crops of 2,500 hectares of new vineyards, 1,500 hectares of olive groves, 2,000 hectares of fruit orchards, a master irrigation plan was developed, an operational programme of pig production was developed, a programme for increasing vegetable production. Please be nice to all of you who talk about black hunches, ask you which pessimist has experienced in... Is that it? [[/The speaker hits the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48439	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Pleško.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must correct Mr Pankretić's incorrect claim that we did nothing for the farming zones. Mr Pankretić if units of local self-government did what she needed, which is not in our jurisdiction, which is the fact that no spatial plan of any unit of local self-government has included in its area means the possibility of building farm oasis where farms could be built, and unfortunately this is not the problem of the Croatian Parliament, but through the budget, the Croatian Parliament has therefore provided the possibility of making a return of 25% through capital investment for each farm that is built from its own resources. And the third thing you would like to mention, Mr Pankretic, is the fact that at least you in the HSS should agree on how many peasants there are in Croatia. According to yesterday's statement, $350,000, today you've declared 120 grand here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48441	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Tomoc.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48442	Here, Mr. President, in the presentation of a respected colleague, he said that 25%, I would like to point out here that the operational programme of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, the water economy and support are sometimes higher, meaning they are not 25% but can be greater for certain projects in the development of bovine production and the development of pig production, which means up to 500 thousand kuna. The fact is that some farms can be made for a million and some kunas, so that support is not 25 percent but more. And just as the colleague said, opportunities have been achieved through all the operational programmes, through more secure means that agriculture is still moving forward and that it is looking for its place in this market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48443	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Dear Representative Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48444	Thank you very much. Not only are the funds reduced for the development and promotion of agricultural production but the resources for the construction and promotion of Croatian ships and the restoration of the fishing fleet in Croatian shipyards and about 20 million kunas are significantly reduced. So investments in port infrastructure to connect the island, the island and the mainland are reduced by 50%. The funds for island development are reduced by 26 million kuna, so that is the care of islands and island populations. Subsidising funds for organised tourism traffic are reduced when all our competing countries invest significant resources to stimulate tourism as one of the most important branches, and we are reducing resources. Not to mention reducing funds for HZ, highways, there is therefore no means to build new energy resources and refineries, etc. So a simple budget can be said that it is accountingly made precisely to ensure only that the government is maintained through the approval of its representatives on the ground, and its coalition and potential coalition... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48445	Thank you. Well, you're replicating something that the distinguished representative Pacek wasn't talking about. ... Pancret, I'm sorry. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Excuse me. Which he didn't say. So, it would look like this if Reverend Pankretic said they weren't cutting shipbuilding funds, and you replicated that they were. And he didn't even mention it, and you're replicating it. Give me some of those replicas. Let's move on. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48446	Thank you very much. So I totally agree with my colleague and I'll pick up where he said there was no money and in that part I'll respond to the replica. And there's no money, Mr. Minister, just one, I thought you were going somewhere. And there's no money and there's a cut in the in-fridge item. Which is why I'm particularly saying, Mr. Minister, that this item has been reduced and that it's been abolished and we're no longer going to finance what I think is an extremely bad move because those who have received certain funds know that well. For example, several of them were built in Međimurje and I think it was a good project that has been continued since the last government. Which is why I especially tell Mr. Minister because in Zagreb County is an investment that is scheduled for next year in the agricultural cooperative "Zagrebački orchards" from Velika Gorica is projected for the construction of the refrigeration plant. And it was predicted that a state like Međimurje, as helped Djurdjevac, etc., would also help Velika Gorica. If you, Mr. Minister, don't think you should help Velika Gorica, i.e. Zagreb County, and at all this project of the refrigerator I think it...... So you're saying you shouldn't and you're saying from the bench that it's not right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I'm not saying that, but it's state... If I may, Mr. Vice President. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48448	The state project so far has been that we co-financed the in-fridges. The state project, unfortunately, is now being abolished. I'm talking about it. Zagreb County did not have documents until this year, and it forecasts for the second year. And I think it would be extremely good if we could support that project. I sincerely hope we'll... It's not possible to build orchards, vineyards without a refrigeration. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Everyone in the field knows that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48449	Thank you. I've got... Minister, I ask you to respect the order in the assembly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] At least while I'm talking. So, I have a deep feeling that Mr. Antesic is offended. You answered him, you didn't want to look at him once. So come on, when you answer the line and... Since we decided to take a break today, the break is up to 15 o'clock and at 15 o'clock replica, Mrs Antunovic. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Well, you have at 3:00. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48450	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. Replica. Dear representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48451	My colleagues and colleagues, I don't even know how much you remember what you've been up to, what we've stopped at, but in this replica, I actually want to pollute with one thesis, and that's what's more important is what this budget is about, too, which is what my colleague Pankretić was talking about. In fact, it doesn't matter how we evaluate its importance, which is the order of priorities in terms of the priorities of the documents to be brought. It is important that this budget is the only document from which it can be read both economic and fiscal policy for the next period of the year or three years without reading it from this budget. It is said, unfortunately, that the budget will benefit those who are publicly or secretly trading with HDZ. It also reads hypocrisy towards citizens who expect a solid budget allocation and do not accept any kind of cheap trade that they think have the right to participate in meeting their interests because they pay taxes, not because they support them, do not support a political party. There is a gap between what the prime minister says publicly and what the budget says. So, we know that a university hospital should be built, and in the next three-year period, the government supports that big promise with 2 million kuna, we're going to build a big hospital. It is read that what we have said, the rich will be richer, poorer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48452	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 209(3), if the representative asks for a word to respond to the quote in the bracket, the President will give him his word as soon as the speaker has completed his speech. Replication of a representative, i.e. a reply to a replica, etc. Two minutes. Are these replicas? Are these the answers to the replicas? Is that replicating the representative to his allegations that he has expressed or half-limizing with something else entirely. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48453	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I agree with what you said, but I will now make it very clear in the section when it comes to the importance of the budget of what I was saying without stating which act is important. But I have to point out to you and repeat what I said. The agricultural budget is too important. Because if there's not enough money for agriculture all the stories are in the wind, all the promises are empty, because without money in agriculture we won't be able to do anything. Therefore, this budget is too important for agriculture, but unfortunately there is no money in this agriculture budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48454	Another replica of the respected representative, Zeljko Pecek, to MP Pankretić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48455	Thank you very much. At one point, counterpart Pankretic said it was probably a lapus that he believes the government and the Ministry of Finance gave as much as they could for agricultural policy. I don't think that's true. They didn't give as much as they could, let alone as they needed. If they could give more confirmation of the fact that one silent rebalancing has already been made in the course of a billion-and-a-half conquest. If they had given as much as they should then probably after three years of monitoring the budget, the irrigation project would have brought together in Slavonia the same way as the farmland programme that is directed towards family households. It is also likely that capital investments would encourage agriculture, not only would it go into infrastructure, but also the infrastructures that deal most with the agriculture of Slavonia, Podravina and North Croatia would not be traffic-insulated not only as far as roads, but also railways, airports, ports and in any other way. They would probably give as much as they can and as much as they need to solve the social component in the country, so the nursing homes that lost the race in agriculture would be taken care of. There, there's no budget for that. There are variations that the incentives are smaller and that they are late, that we import too much agricultural products, and that we do not put too little technical barriers to this over-indulgence. We must reverse the export of agricultural products, and we should find more money in the Ministry of Finance and in the Croatian budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48456	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48457	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica will be clear. I may have made this mistake in the heat of my discussion, but surely I repeat again the government has not provided enough money for agriculture and it is unequivocal. But what my colleague Pecek has now pointed out about the export is where I'm going to be now. It's a big question, and that's what I was talking about in my debate about getting ready for the European Union. And when you read in the paper, the European Commission will cut the imports of sugar from Croatia in half. In other words, the loss of nearly 80m euros in agricultural exports, one of the main agricultural products that accounts for 25% of total agricultural products to the European Union. Someone's gonna cut it in half. Some people here called on the SAA, and I would say in a critical tone they evaluated the SAA. The SAA has made it possible for Croatian agriculture to have free exports of sugar to the European market since 2000. By agreeing to certain quotas, and it definitely shows that someone will reduce the export of agricultural products. When that happens, unfortunately, we are in a difficult situation and my question is that if the government has a certain direction, if the ministry knows where it is going to replace 80 million euros in exports and what it will make up for if someone dares to take such a step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48458	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Mato Church. He's gone. There's no replica. Next respected representative, Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand Mr Pancretic's argument well. First of all, he wants to stress the importance of this state budget when it comes to the village and agriculture of farmers to the European Union. Of course, it should be stressed that the peasant must adapt both technologically and economically and productively to be able to adapt competitively. And if I understand Mr Pancretic correctly, and I think I am that adjustment in all of these four senses can't happen without money and that's why there's again the tendency to actually give up this budget of small peasants. I repeat the 350,000 number I said yesterday, and so today. However, what I want to pollute with Mr Pankretic is the next thing. In order for a peasant to ever be in a position to adapt competitively one day he must have the property, he must have the land. A peasant without land is not a peasant. The fundamental issue of the existence of peasants and agricultural production is the possession of agricultural land. I want to make it clear that we have a serious problem in this area. We are entering into negotiations with the European Union, and in this adaptation with the European Union, we need to take care of who owns a working agricultural country in the Republic of Croatia. So I use the opportunity to point out that Croatia must simply in negotiations require a very long transitional deadline, or exemption when it comes to the right of foreigners to buy agricultural land. Of course, our party has been talking for 18 years and we think it is a minimum if we know that the purchasing power of Croatian peasants relative to European Union peasants is multiple times smaller. Today, the country's hectare in the Netherlands costs 80,000 euros, and in Croatia, between 2 and 3,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48460	Thank you. Replicate response, respected MP Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48461	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can conclude that Mr. Representative Tomcic understood me well but this is an opportunity for me to replicate in this part of it in a certain way, perhaps, but also answer the question that has been asked here about not understanding certain figures. This may be an opportunity to answer correctly. I don't think we know what the number is. Mr. MP in the register of registered family farms has... /The speaker turned off, then turned on./... and said then, but when we talk about the total number of family peasant holdings then you can really count them up to 350 thousand and we will certainly be able to determine that. And that's the problem that we have a concentration in one part of those we managed to get into the register, but unfortunately we haven't solved that problem that's related to those who are the most endangered, with our small farmers, with our nursing households. And if we don't face that problem, we'll have and we've already got big social problems. What I want to stress is perhaps related to the availability of agricultural land. A programme of agricultural land that was heavily attacked in the past time, I must say, had a clear goal. Family peasant economies need to be circled and we all know what the figures are now and we need to give them priority. Unfortunately, the big criticism was back two, three years. However, nothing has been done in that part for two years. And now, unfortunately, we are in one difficult situation, before entering the European Union, under pressure that we will have to sell our agricultural land with small family property, with our people who do not have and who are crying for agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48462	Thank you. The next replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48463	Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you very much. I have also correctly understood Mr Pankretić, as Mr Tomcic, but I would just like to say that around the value sequence of the rules in Croatia, that is, I repeat the Constitution, constitutional laws, international agreements, then the organic laws and the state budget that are according to the number of votes to vote at the same level. With the lower level of the state budget due to it being brought only for the current year. But what does it matter? What matters is what Mr Pankretic said, as much money, as much music as Confucius said. But he still says, "Is there money or is there no money?" ... Mr Pankretić, is there or is there no Confucius? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He didn't know that. Is there or is there no money? He's got money, but he needs to take it, so we're acting like we're leaving. So take it or leave it. And where do you take it? Take in the field of gray economy. It's said and it's clear, official data is both our government and ours, that it's a order of 11 to 15 billion kunas. We know what the state budget means. Others are worth military property. And the third is what was illegally taken away, not nationalized, because it's nationalized to the owner. And we're going to fill the budget and make this development and investment possible. Therefore, this is the goal that the Government must make in this section regarding the development of mechanisms to combat the gray economy, and the second is to support our Law on Audit, Conversion and Privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48464	Replicate response, respected MP Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48465	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I thank you for understanding Mr Kovacevic, but once again I don't know which time I repeat, this budget is too important for agriculture, and in this budget there is not enough money for agriculture. And I have to say, I don't care where the money will be taken, but if we want to keep our agriculture then this government, this ruling party or this ruling coalition must know where to take and where to give, and where to give it is agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48466	Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48467	I must agree with counterpart Pankretic that the preparation of Croatian agriculture for the European Union is too slow, that there is too little money for her. But I must also say that we must correct some mistakes, and the first mistake, unfortunately, was made in 2001 when we passed the Law on Encouragements that unfortunately did not produce results. I'll illustrate it next time. We brought incentives per hectare, while reducing production at the same time. At that time, production was at 50% pre-war production. In the meantime, we invested 3 times more money, or better say 3 times we increased incentives, and at the same time we got an increase in production by 2%. Which means, unfortunately, with bad incentives, no more money yields results. So first we have to bring in a new strategy. First of all, we have to change the law, because believe me, we will never be competitive with European wheat with 3 and 4 tons of wheat per hectare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48468	Replica response, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48469	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Chuhil for this first part, and on this second part, we're going to have to pollemize. So, with the incentives, I don't think there's anything new. What we have to do, what we haven't done and it's good that we did in 2001 should be done now. 'Cause there's no other incentive than a hectare incentive. All other incentives were forbidden to change them. The second thing is that we in part of our production must very clearly define certain things. But what we can do, and I will now illustrate it to you, here it was today very beautifully illustrated in the daily newspaper where it is said that from 1999 to 2000 we have almost in some way dropped out of the records or remained not in the records almost to a million hectares of agricultural land. And if we, for the reference year in negotiations with the European Union, are going to have to take 2001 or 2002, rather than the prewar year, then in Croatia it will be a big problem because it will be millions of damages for Croatian agriculture and we will not achieve those support from Brussels that should be achieved. Therefore, I think it is an extremely important argument in which our negotiators must certainly take account.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48470	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48471	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Pankretic correctly claimed by discussing the budget that there was insufficient funding for agriculture and that agriculture would suffer damage. A fellow Pancretic, not just a farm. This needs to be looked at in a broader context. Through this budget, the damage also suffers from the region where agriculture is the primary production. That region is called Slavonia. In that region today is the highest unemployment rate, in that region are the lowest wages, in that region is the lowest financial potential. And now that the funds are not already approved to encourage agriculture and its adaptation in the European Union, then the region wants eyes covered and says that the capital project is irrigation and for the third year with 16 million kuna in the budget, execution is nothing. Then they say the capital project is a water line for Eastern Slavonia. Imagine 15 million kuna planned, the investment is 671 million, which means 44 years will be done by the eastern water line. Then the 5C capital project is planned, which does not mean that 50 million kunas will be executed, investment of 120 million euros, which is only 80 kilometers and if it were to remain in such dynamics as is planned, and does not mean that this would take 8 to 10 years of business. So the damage from this budget is multiplely harmful, reflected above all in Slavonia and it is ultimately just a series of policies of this government, unequal regional development of Croatia, and the answer is the emergence of regional ideas and the acceptance of these regional ideas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48472	Replica response, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48473	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I fully agree with Mrs. Lalić on the matter I would say one total failure, one I would say the neglect of Slavonia, but in the context of Slavonia it is definitely said about agriculture, so I can add these other parts of Croatia and that continental part. We without a national programme for agriculture, and it was in it that I was saying, in my debate, good announcements as a national irrigation programme that will be invested billions of kunas, and then it comes down to some of the previous 30ths on the current 16 million kunas, then really a man wonders where is this national programme for agriculture. But here I may be more specific when we talk, and when we talk about agriculture, then the most important resource that's called land is to be accurate in the data and what I used to answer, I'm going to say very clearly. In 1989, there were a million 626 thousand and a million and 155,000 acres of pasture in the register of 2003, with 861 thousand working and 203 thousand acres of pasture or a total of a million and 64 thousand hectares. A million acres less. If the European Union takes the reference year 2003 and calculate a million hectares of times the amount we are talking about hundreds, hundreds of millions of euros that will unfortunately not arrive in Croatia, we will have to put it in place, and I believe this Parliament will make an effort to make it a commitment for our negotiators to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48474	The next replica, the esteemed representative Fiolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48475	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must stress that I am very glad that my colleague Tomcic and Pankretic understand and understand each other, but I would remind Mr Pankretić while he was Minister of the Resorship Ministry that the highest were the surpluses of pig meat and of the juniper, that farmers at the time offered according to Slavonia six kunas, and that I remember well as one of the largest producers in Zagreb County called Mr Pankretić while he was a minister and I asked what to do with my 5,000 extra pigs, he told me not to feed and the imports grew. A new government came in, made an intervention purchase of pigs and started production. I asked Minister Cobankovic how the handover was going, he says easily, the safe was open and wrote 800 million kunas missing. It's easy to say, 30-40% should be given. Gentlemen, we need to ask ourselves where. We need to cover ourselves with the blanket we've got, and we can schedule as much as we have. We can raise taxes, but it's not good for manufacturing that and the economy. I must also point out that within four years of my term, the entire government has owed more than $15 billion, that the deficit has remained 6 billion and 800 and that you, Mr. Representative, were the undertaker of Croatian production, and now hold a lesson and would have brought the state into bankruptcy if you had remained one more term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48476	Replicate response, respected MP Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48477	Mr. President, I don't know if interlocutors can be called by such beautiful names, but I appreciate the esteemed representative Fioliæ, but I think you should take care of each other in any case, but you are the one holding the order, but I think Mr. Fiolić, apart from his grades of certain people, and I don't think he should, should not care about other people's relations. I wouldn't go in as he agrees with Mr. Sanader, because he's a good butcher, that's his problem, so I think it's correct that we stick to a concrete debate. And as for the actual debate, it is very simple. Mr. Fiolić has not been left behind in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and this has been confirmed by the Ministers of Finance and Assistants, because you must know that in any way a certain matter in agriculture could be paid off, but you should at least know that if I believe you understand something in agriculture, there is no end to the financial year with a productive agricultural year. And we've always done that, and it's always going to be done, and this year it's not gonna be worth it, I assure you, neither milk nor meat, nor that pig to you or your hero will be worth it, maybe I'm apologizing maybe your will, but it won't be worth it to those of ours in that part of the people who are objectively waiting for that money long, and some of them are waiting, and I would say, a lot more time. I have to say that I expected certain changes in the direction of agricultural policy and I was very correct in those relations, but I don't think that I deserve this one particular incorrection on your part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48478	Dear Ensign Zgrebec, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48479	Mr. President, I will replicate that part of my colleague Pankretić's presentation where he, with the thesis that I agree with, speaks about the importance of agriculture and the agricultural budget, especially in light of the entry, that is, negotiations and entry into the European Union, but he said in the end so little relatively, he has as much resources as possible. It seems to me, however, that it is possible in another way to put together a agricultural budget and that it gets some more funding. The reforms started in the legislative section on agriculture, the adoption of the Agricultural Law, the Agricultural Aid Act, the Agricultural Land Act. We don't see any of that through this budget. Institutional infrastructure in the economy is important, especially in agriculture. Let's just take a look at, say, the funds for the Institute for Fruit, Winery, Food Agency, Plant Protection, etc. They receive funds at the same level, and their role is precisely to develop agriculture in the good part. Agency, so-called The SAPARD agency is only now being equipped, and it has already had to have projects because 25m euros were to be withdrawn next year. When we continue to look at incentives at the same level as paid as will be paid in 2005 they are even at the level of 2004. If no change is made here and the program then there is no general change in structure. About the irrigation that the Prime Minister said they had as important as they have the importance of the road for three years in a row we have 16 million kunas, and the propos of that general waste. Therefore, far more could have to be allocated to agriculture, especially for agricultural investments, given this situation of entry into the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48480	Replication response, respected MP Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48481	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mrs. Zgrebec is polleming and replicating to me, but I think we're getting along in certain things, but I still have to point out here. It wasn't easy in 2000 to start reforms in agriculture, it was an acid apple we dared to bite for the reason that unfortunately for decades, it can be said freely, in that part no important changes were made. When we set out to do it, of course, in those parts, we did the only thing that was possible at the time. Of course, we've hit the foundations here and already mentioned the Food Agency that I think is extremely important. Without the Food Agency, we will not objectively be able to stop this uncontrollable imports, which unfortunately again is twenty and more percent higher this year than it was last year when it was recordable, unfortunately without one systematic approach to which we will know and so do all modern states, that through the Food Agency we control that if I can tell you freely in Croatia not to enter unquality goods, that we do not enter, I would say some goods that create disturbances on the market. But in this part, I want to point out once again, without agricultural land, without a clear commitment to the fact that agricultural land is being made by important shifts, we do not have a basic resource. Unfortunately, in the balance, the arondation, the melioration this year instead of 2 million will be invested a million kunas which I really must say embarrassingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48482	Honorable representative Ivo Kolar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48483	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! Well, here's a chance for me to try to replicate Mr Pankretić in that part, and I believe that we agree that the agricultural budget remained at the level of the previous year, with all the respects of inflation and what was happening in the economy but aware that there was already little money last year, that this year it would be multiplied even less. And to actually stop all the reforms that have started. Namely, if anyone is impotent and I warn you that in the country now so-called. The invisible decomposition of peasants to those who die under the coercion of agricultural policy. It's impossible to achieve incentives, it's impossible to knock on the state manger at all, and that's where I said it's unequal people placed in a lower class that I have to suffer from the circumstances, and they become social cases tomorrow, and actually those dead people that we said should be buried before, and our governments are now generously helped from the state budget through subsidies and incentives because the restriction has been lifted. And if such a conscious decomposition of the village you think you can be wrong in the European Union. The European Union has protected rural areas in a special way because they are landscape gardeners, they are guardians of national heritage and we are now giving it up. Sad and clear, however, the problems will just arise because as social problems arise and the stomach begins to croak, as the peasants say, then you gnaw at us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48484	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48485	Thank you, Mr. President. But I must say that I cannot agree with Mr. Honored Representative Kolar because he has nevertheless found that the budget has remained at the same level for agriculture and yet I argue that he is smaller, is smaller for a simple reason and it is mathematically evidenceable because if we throw out that part of the money that goes directly from the SAPARD programme and the European Union we come mathematically clear to a small amount of money. If we add inflation to that, the increase in gross social product, then this is less money for agriculture, and I don't know what time I repeat it, this budget is not enough money for agriculture unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48486	Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48487	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs! Here, I answered for the only reason to correct an incorrect quote. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance has never confirmed that the Ministry of Agriculture did not remain in 2003 a debt of around 800 million kuna. This is de facto happening every year, in 2004, when we were doing the budget, in 2005 and now in 2006 there are assistants from the Ministry of Agriculture and each year 800 million are melting and this government has been returning these amounts year after year. I will list one amount for subsidies in 2003 made a billion and 600 million kuna, a plan for 2006. 2 billion and 88 million kuna, or you 400 million kuna more or 25% more than it was paid in 2003. The SAPARD projects, I'd just like to inform the esteemed MPs. The SAPARD project is nearing its end, will soon be on the agenda and a multi-anual financial agreement, so a multi-annual financial agreement and all other projects. The national accreditation of the SAPARD has begun and everything is going according to plan. Regarding the part concerning regional amounts, I would say, therefore, that in the 2006 budget a billion and 300 million kunas will be allocated from the Croatian roads further to Osijek-Baranja County. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48488	Correction of the incorrect quote, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48489	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State has stated incorrectly that there is a debt. We have also made it clear in 2004 that there is no debt but there is this with your people from the Ministry of Finance that there is a transfer of certain non-payments to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. And as it turns out, you won't this year because that's impossible. The one who tries to close the treasure in this way will not close because all the obligations of 2005 will not be paid to agriculture and you must transfer them to 2006 and it has always been and always will be. If that's what you want to do, then you're doing a lot of damage to agriculture and those who let you do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48490	Next correction, honourable representative Ivo Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48491	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is an incorrect finding that debt or better to say this year will not be transferred and will be paid next year. Namely, I remind the Secretary of State that the regulation that speaks of the cost of incentives, speaks after maturity and 60 days you have proposed it now after 5 months and that is a message to the peasants, do not expect this year the rights that you should receive under the law because I, the Secretary of State, today says there will be no payment. It's the right thing to do and you need to confirm and say it. And the minister made that clear to me. And obligations remain for the second year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48492	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48493	Thank you, Mr. from the Ministry of Finance, it is incorrect that there will be no transfer, there will be transfers from the basis of the payment of incentives because it will be every year. But I don't know why you're defending it now that it's not true and you're reducing something. And let's say, unlike you, we don't want to mention that in April 2000, we paid off the 99th government debt to buy out the wheat harvest in 1999. There was no reason at the time for the debt to be transferred in 2000. And what incentives are being passed over next year, so it's logical and normal because the fiscal year has never been a match and it can't match up with the agricultural year. And in order to know that, there's got to be something to know about agriculture. We can only advise that, but we can't teach you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48494	Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48495	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Whether the budget is 95.4 billion or 98.8 billion with the inclusion of Croatian highways, roads, European funds and gambling revenues, or almost 105.9 billion kuna with all extra-account funds, citizens will certainly be no matter if they are not treated better and faster, if they do not have the same pension conditions, if they no longer receive in their payment bags those who work in state services, if we continue to record 18.4% and 300 thousand unemployed, respectively. Whether the budget is developed or social, how much it reflects the real possibilities everyone will assess by how unfortunately someone from that budget got, which region or fractions unfortunately or option belonged to. For pensions 28.4 billion or 1.6 billion more are secured which should certainly be enough to coordinate pensions twice a year. But large differences remain between old and new generations of pensioners of nearly 600 kuna, which for an average pension of 1850 kuna is certainly devastating. An increase in salary and social income expenditures for beneficiaries of the budget is planned by nearly 3 billion. Unfortunately, individuals won't feel it. Although the wages are estimated at €24.2 billion, the average salaries of state service employees, ranging from 2 thousand to 3 thousand 700 per month, this increase of 3% or 100 kuna per month will certainly not satisfy further dissuasion, so more so if we know that inflation has already passed 4% today and is significantly burdening the cost of life. The increase in resources in the Ministry of Health will not be nearly resolved by hospital debts, will not cut deadlines and payments to suppliers. And with the reduction of waiting lists for individual health services and restrictions on the use of services unfortunately, the budget is also not being monitored, as health reform is not being supervised, since funds are not foreseen. It may be a good solution to the Treaty of Osijek and the Prime Minister, if it will finally start to invest in Slavonia, but unfortunately I do not consider Slavonia only Osijek but also Lipik and Darovar, and I do not keep counting. However, these contracts forget the needs of small people in small settlements, and although they are talking about 1.5 billion kunas here, 6 million should be small, but unfortunately there is no calculated hall in Jelisavec, which, with 260 students, almost 60% of which makes the children of the Slovak minority, do not have a sports hall, have it for three years, have a project, have a building permit, visit the town of Nasice, Osijek-Baranja County, Ministry but failed. Children will still have a body culture sitting in benches of narrow classes. When I mentioned the Ministry of Science of Education and Sports, I would like to point again to the funding of the National Minorities Education Programme for which 22% of the funds are provided more, i.e. From 4.5 million to 5.5 million. Unfortunately, the resources for textbooks do not increase even lip while certain minorities for regular schooling are known to have not translated a single textbook that gives the right to education in minority language difficult to consume. At the same time, funding is being increased for specific programmes for the education of national minorities whose real purpose is unknown. The criterion of distribution, transparency of spending, and no wonder that the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities for a full period of three years cannot receive a report on the spending of the same. Reform in agriculture by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy has been launched to welcome. However, I fear that by increasing from 170 million kuna or 6.4%, this is not possible because these are not enough funds for the newly employed SAPARD-U by taking over part of the inspection services and for newly established administrations. The fact that this Ministry does not implement the Agriculture Act in the part of submitting a green report to the Croatian Parliament, which would assess the effectiveness of individual measures in this House, especially the effects of support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, as well as the strategic programmes that individuals are now making, and it is no wonder that we are talking once about irrigation, the second time about disposal, and the multi-annual plantations without following the necessary resources. 2 billion kunas for support in agriculture are both small and large funds. Small looking at support per hectare and looking at the number of cultures we encourage. Large looking at the effects and increasing production within 2%. I want to point out some illogical cuts in funds precisely in the positions in this ministry that are defined as strategic. The funds at the ground quality control position and the dispatch of the Land Office are reduced from 2.43 million to 2.2 million, which is also reduced to a million and 50%, respectively, in the land planning programme. At the same time, we are tasked with rounding up agricultural land because 3 hectares of the average economy in five parcels will certainly never be able to compete with the European Union through production. We are about to coordinate the catastra and land-based book records until we prepare the irrigation studies. Especially not to mention once again the importance of an analysis of soil and these laboratories in the soil inventory related to the desire to produce biofood, or as we often call it healthy food and sustainable development, which without an analysis of the quality of the soil is not even imagined. The establishment of a agricultural chamber is envisioned by the Agriculture Act already in 2001. From year to year, we are satisfied with the form of insurance of 50 thousand kuna, and neither the Law on the Agricultural Chamber nor the Chamber have seen the light of day. Support for income from non-conventional agricultural holdings from year to year is growing which we could estimate as positive. In 2004, it was 25 million, 2005. 55 million, 2006, planned 75 million. But that's exactly what the poor agricultural situation points to. You should finally consider how much these social benefits possibly involve considering retirement and finally putting agricultural subsidies on hold. I would also use my minutes here to answer Mr Pancretic. Yes, the European Union is moving by a hectare but we must not forget that Austria has long introduced incentives by hectare, but at the same time it uses quantities. We are not yet in the European Union and we really should have used the time until we enter the European Union to technical, technologically equip agriculture and to raise production to that level that will be able to cope with European competition. Seeding and wasteland funds have been reduced from 2 million to 1.4 million. Full 30%. We forget that Croatia had quality seminary, which is known for its privatisation is ruined. That we were large exporters of seeds, and at the same time today, when we defend ourselves against GMOs and import seeds, we forget that we do not have enough seeds or for our own production, and we should add that we do not have enough fruit material for fruit and vineyarding, and we also want to significantly raise fruit and vineyarding until we enter the European Union. Co-financing of the food sector's technological promotion programme is reduced from seven and a half million to five million or 34%. Although new programmes and new technologies are missing, which can only expect funds from access funds, and I must also stress that the biggest contribution just to export growth in the first 9 months of this year came from an increase in the importance of food and drink exports by almost 40%. It turns out from the entire technological improvement that iceboxes are important to us, which could certainly be polluted as well. Funding is also being cut for agricultural research, a well-known vip, which from 6 and a half million 2004 today fell to 4 and a half million, which makes a further 30% reduction, and I repeat, we expect new technologies that at the moment will need to be helped to survive farmers until the non-food consumption programme that the European Union is very supportive of, but we do not need these research. And in the end, I'm going to go back to the numbers from the beginning that can be over and cut hair depending on what we're going to turn on or off. We can invest 15 billion kuna, give for 5 billion subsidies. However, in order to keep the budget deficit to 3.3% of domestic gross products certainly gives us a 4.2% growth as planned will not be enough. But I hope that successful realization will surely have to be taken into account by the government because there is always a virtuoso. I will support the budget in the event that I have submitted amendments to the minority on the fate of these amendments will certainly be able or will depend on my support for the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48496	Thank you. Eight replicas. Only eight. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48497	My colleague Chuknil pointed to the problem of health and how the budget reflects on it, and I might add that you accidentally neglected education as a form of prevention. And here's an amazing piece of information from this budget. Here, there's the secretary of state. Education in high schools on HIV or AIDS is reduced, funds for this type of education by one million 256 thousand and 800 kuna. The fight against HIV or AIDS is reduced by 234 thousand 975 kuna. So why these five kunas. You've calculated in kuna how much you're reducing. You mentioned human rights and that it will depend on whether you support this budget. You know how much is foreseen for human rights education 290,000 kuna, which is a reduction of 70,000 kuna compared to the last budget. That's very indicative. When we talk about human health without ecologicals, there is no entry into the European Union, there is no health, and if we enter, we will have to adhere to high standards, and you can see the promotion of NGOs to protect the environment of 50 000 kuna. Strengthening capacity to implement the Kyoto protocol life-reduction by 320,000 kuna. The programme for the recovery of polluted areas and there are clean-up ships at sea with 2750,000 kunas is reduced and this small sum is 200 000 kuna. On this speedy flight through this budget here you could see how much really this budget carries in itself the handicap not even at the level of how much it is, but at the level of symbolism and relations to these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48498	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48499	I must agree with Mr Jurevic that prevention is certainly the most important, that NGOs also play a major role in this, and that everyone needs funds for their work. But let us remember that there is also a fine piece of work called volunteer work and that perhaps something can be done here. And secondly, I would like to invite you to sit down together and discuss the introduction of family education in schools that could just be ahead of us and answer many of these questions that you have raised and which other European countries have and far better quality to address.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48500	Thank you. The second replica of the respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48501	I thank Mr. President, so my colleague Chuhnil said that this budget increase will be sufficient for the legal harmonisation of pensions. Comrade Chuhnil that is absolutely correct, but when we decide on the budget, we decide whether to raise our hand or not, then we need to know what that means. This means that re-retirement will fall from the average salary of the Republic of Croatia, as in these two years it fell from 44.71% to 42%. This is a trend that leads to 35% of the average salary paid as it was in 2000 as we then found. You have correctly assessed that Slavonia has been neglected in this budget and has been neglected so much that even the results of the trade negotiations cannot fix it. It's obvious that you've reached the message of the Slavons, which is what I quote. "Mrs Slavonci, gentlemen of the State Secretary Slavonci, Madam Deputy Prime Minister Slavonko, gentlemen of the Slavons, shame on you whether you accept this budget!" This is what the Slavons have told us, and it is obvious that the Slavons are also well following the debate of this budget, because counterpart Chuhnil, as a member of the national minorities, has noticed the neglect of Slavonia in the budget, and this neglect is manifested by clarification and analysis and those items that have been promised, and in three years they have not been executed, and these items point to only making promises. Disillusioned by the promise of the desert, and from the realization it is obvious that the Slavons have decided to send such a message.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48502	Ms. Lalic, quoting an alleged statement which suggests that someone from Slavonia should be ashamed of all MPs representing Slavonia, Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary, the ministers should be ashamed if they accept this Budget. You have violated the fundamental rules of conduct in this House. You've hurt the reputation of all the MPs. The only thing you haven't included me in yet is that I should be ashamed too, because I'm also a representative of the same constituency. I'm giving you a warning for now. You don't need gentlemen to hurt the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to pollute with me, Mrs. Lalic. ... You have no right to pollemize. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll take your word from you in this entire debate. Next time, there's a reminder to take a word out. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. You had it now, did you have it, Mr. Pecek? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48503	When I used the numbers on pension coordination and when I said it would be enough I just wanted to point out it would be enough for what we voted in this House. Whether we vote for it or not, we all bear responsibility, and the same is true of me and of all the MPs who voted for it. And secondly, I wanted to point out more the problem of the difference in pensions that had been talked about in the previous period and the difference with which pensioners are going to retire today and which unfortunately these funds will certainly not cover and will not be enough and what this Parliament will certainly discuss on many occasions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48504	Thank you. Replica next respected representative, Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48505	Thank you very much. My colleagues Chuhil a neutral observer who listens to you might understand that you are the most fierce critic of the opposition because you spoke as we did about the situation in agriculture, the lack of salaries and the increase of wages, the difficult state of health, the non-investment in school, the neglect of Slavonia, and you talked about how from this Budget something later can be obtained by stakeholders. This is interesting to listen to, and it was particularly interesting to hear the end when you said: If my amendment is accepted then I will vote for such a bad budget. In other words, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts an amendment of 100, 200 thousand kuna, then you will forget the peasants, workers, pensioners and all those others you have so deeply advocated in your debate. So this is probably 100, 200, or I don't know how many thousands of kunas since I can't tell you what your amendment is, but I'm just curious about how difficult your amendment is for you to forget about our peasants, workers and pensioners who, more than the opposition you're looking for in principle. However, when it is necessary to raise your hand, when it is necessary to change the budget so that they can benefit from all that, then we raise our hand against it. Which makes it hard for me to understand, so please explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48506	Agent Pacek, this is very offensive. You have here publicly accused MP Chuhn that it is actually sold for 100, 200 thousand kuna and that it gives its vote depending on it. Councilwoman Chuhnil said she would vote for the Budget and hope that its amendment would be adopted. And that she's convinced of it. How is it, what kind of correctness is it to accuse a representative of this publicly in a hidden and indirect manner of something that is very embarrassing and that it would be for you to say something like that in the Croatian Parliament because you express your opinion and view that in a hidden, indirect manner you are accusing him of selling his vote for the Budget? The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Zdenka Chuhnil. [[Intruder: That's right, Mr. President, because of women and minorities.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48507	Although one part of the answer has already been said by Mr. President, Mr. Pecek, I have on, the right to speak in this House. I have the right to judge as well as you. As your voters will evaluate you, or voters, they will judge me. But if you want, I've always been on the side of agriculture, farmers. Unfortunately, I may not have made it clear enough about the mistakes made in 2001, 2002, and 2003 that we all suffer today. ... It's called here today, it's called here today about how no incentives are paid and so on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have just one article that I have pointed out is that this precedent in Europe has given an opportunity for someone to behave like this. Today we condemn him. So let us be correct toward ourselves, and let us say that we are also sinful, that I am sinful, and that I will always defend what I can defend. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48508	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48509	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I described this budget as commercial in last night's debate, then I thought about those conversations we read about in the paper. Talks in Prime Minister Sanader's cabinet between the mayor of Osijek and the Prime Minister. That's when I called that budget a commercial hasn't happened yet what we just heard, but it's an open offer. Open offer. You'll get my vote for this budget if you respect my amendment. Mrs. Chuhnil, I fully agree with you that Slavonia and Pacrac and Daruvar and Lipik are not just Osijek. But I must warn you that neither Daruvar nor Pacrac nor Lipik must make me feel jealous of Osijek this time, because in this budget, despite the fact that we read in the paper about a billion and a half kuna, and what my colleague Zgrebec has warned us about this morning, there is no lip in the budget. There's no lip. I am convinced that HSP representatives are now worth writing amendments asking for these billions and per kuna and that we will see these amendments here because it is the essence of the second part of the trade agreement between the government and the reserve, reserve government support party.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48510	Mr. Stazić, all MPs, all the clubs in the debates over different laws and decisions are made publicly in the Croatian Assembly very often that they will vote in favour of some law if some amendment they propose as a club or as representatives is accepted and very often conditioned and say their vote and position on a certain law depends on how their amendment will be accepted or not accepted. That's why you're repeating this inaccuracies of Agent Pecek claiming the same thing here and again and insulting MP Chuhnil, calling it an open offer. That's an open offer. An open offer because it expressed its opinion on which it has the right, as well as any representative, to consider and consider publicly its proposal for an amendment concerning its position on the budget. It is again in a hidden indirect manner of insult, accusing MP Chuhnil of making an open commercial offer. ... That's why I'm here, Mr. Pecek. That's exactly why I'm here, especially for that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil. But give before that, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48511	Your Honor, Mr. President. Exactly what you said about the context, but Mr. Stazic, again as bravely as he knows, so he ran away insulting HSP representatives. So he abused and spoke about HSP representatives, and Mrs. Chuhnil said nothing about HSP representatives in her section. So I beg you to keep an eye on that part. If you don't mind if we go outside and we'll sort everything out.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48512	I didn't hear that. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48513	Dear fellow Stazic, if I'm the only one. Can't it be quieter?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48514	Stay calm and I'll be able to hear everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48515	Comrade Stazic, if I am the only one in this assembly who has conditioned my amendments with a voice, then I will indeed pour my ashes and say my sin. But I've heard of this speaker once and for all from the club representatives and from you individuals that depending on the fate of your amendments will depend on your vote for the law, for something. So now it's my same reaction to trading. If I wanted to trade then I'd go trade, and I wouldn't be setting amendments here just like you. I was here with full legitimacy talking about the rights of Slovak and Czech children, or in general all minority children that do not have textbooks, that they need funds because the textbook is the basis of every education and that it is finally time to finance in the budget. I was just like you, defending the halls, defending certain objects here, saying that the students in Jelislavac do not have a hall at Nasic's. And therefore, I will give the amendment just as much as you. And there's nothing illogical about such amendments and I'm setting the same conditions as you. If you accept all the amendments, do not say that you will vote in favour, or that you will go against in the opposite case. Therefore, I ask you, have the same criteria for others as you have for yourself. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48516	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48517	My colleague Chuhnil, in his presentation, was a little surprised that there was no hearing for the sports hall in Jelisavec, singled out 6 million kunas, linking it to this deal and not having nothing against it, as well as me to provide billions and a half kuna for certain projects in Osijek. I will say again that I will believe that these projects will only be co-financed from the budget when I see government amendments for those projects that are agreed on. But you don't have to be surprised. I have here one text signed by the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, where in a Međimurje small municipality, a village, Sveti Juraj in Brijeg during an election campaign for local elections to visit the Ivan Goran Kovacic elementary school, the government said it would help build a sports hall and otherwise, depending on the possibilities. He wrote to them: "Happy, Ivo Sanader, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, 4 May 2005". In a budget that will be adopted, which weighs nearly 100 billion kuna, there is no sports hall in a small Međimurje village. At the same time, he attended a pre-election event. Then, here's your photo, the main password was "President Bajuku", and that's the president of the HDZ in that community, "your victory, our support". HDZ did not win, but by agreeing with other parties who believed this written promise by the Croatian government's president came to power. However, there is no sports hall in the budget. I wrote an amendment trusting the Prime Minister and believing that this amendment would be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48518	You've read something about the possibility of that poster. Preferably. ... Honorable representative Zdenka Chuhnil, reply to the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mrs. Anticevic, I have the right and the duty to explain in the debate and vote, keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48519	My colleagues are obviously you and I in the same position. We're left to trust people with our word.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48520	Honorable representative of Ante Markov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48521	Thank you very much. A colleague, Chuhnil, said of the budget, indicated that health care, i.e. funds intended for health care, is not enough for everyone in health care, which I absolutely agree with. And I want to replicate in a way that it's a little strange that the General Hospital of Sibenik is the only general hospital that hasn't received funds in the 2006 Budget compared to the last year when it was won, and I know that, of course, the situation in this general hospital and the needs it has, and the fact that during the tourist season it is practically the center of the Central Adriatic, where many tourists and our citizens are coming, so it's strange that there are no funds. At the same time, the mountain rescue service that was so praised during the debate received no funds but exclusively at the Ministry of Tourism, while the funds at the interior ministry were not provided for the mountain rescue service. As well as insufficient resources from the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, which should have been ensured because the potential covered by this service, as well as the Mountain Rescue Service, was almost universal. He refers to all citizens, but also to the growing needs of tourists who, during their stay of course, come into various, various trials, dangers, and we daily witness how much the mountain rescue service does, as much as it has on its... /The speaker has turned off, and has again turned on./... expected that sufficient resources for the service responsible for the service on islands and at sea for the State Department for Protection and Rescue will be found in the positions of the Ministry of Health. And clearly, attached to that and to the mountain rescue service.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48522	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48523	My colleague Markov, I am pleased that we also agree that there is not enough funding for hospitals and that late payment lists and that there are long waiting lists for services, etc. Therefore, I will join you at the moment when you fight the battle to change this situation and I will join you in all practical actions that if we volunteer but try together to force the Ministry of Health to finally start working on health restructuring.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48524	Thank you. Next replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48525	... counterpart Chuhnil, by discussing agriculture, claimed that we are simply entering into negotiations with the European Union, while at the same time encouraging agriculture we are based on a hectare and we are not changing anything in that part. Discussing this, she tried a lot to talk about it in the 2000 period. - 2003. And in some ways, she tried to make it very clear that she had an understanding and justified that there were no funds in this budget because we had failed in the previous term. I can also accept that way of thinking, but I'm asking whether we find an excuse for any future government with that kind of thinking. And the new government won't change anything. Why? Because these three years, because this is the government's three-year work, there's no change. There's no change. So we want to say, and since you come, don't worry, your predecessors haven't done anything. It is a very ugly message that we send to the citizens of Croatia, because simply if you are a failure to be in power tomorrow, find the culprits only in the predecessors. I can't agree with that kind of thinking, different thinking. There is no excuse for the failures of the predecessors, but when we talk about the three-year budget of our government, then we have to say what they did. Justification in predecessors cannot be what justifies them and therefore such a method of thinking is neither politically sound nor a good message to our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48526	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48527	When I was talking about incentives, I was just saying that they were too early to bring incentives by the hectare. If we had just continued to encourage quantities for a while, raise production, raise technology levels and then just introduce an incentive per hectare when we go to the European Union. I didn't blame the last government or the coalition government because I participated in it. But I pointed out mistakes. If after a triple increase in incentives we didn't get results for the better, let's go change. So for two years now, this government is still doing the same thing, but nothing in agriculture is changing, and that's exactly what I wanted to call, let's change, let's discuss, let's finally let the Ministry of Agriculture file a green report. If he knows what is involved in the law that needs to be laid down right now in this House, that the state of agriculture that this House should discuss under that law every year, he should see how positive or not changing the measures so far. I'm right in that part of it called for that part asking that finally and green report to come here and start discussing what's not good in agriculture because an increase in money if you don't get results, in five years we'll talk about the same thing you said, blaming someone else. Not someone else, let's blame ourselves and start talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48528	Thank you. And the last replica, the respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48529	Well, colleague Chuhnil was talking about an unfavourable situation regarding seminary in Croatia. I'd like to support that with some data. According to the Croatian Agronomic Society, all sugar tails planted in Croatia this year were planted with seeds purchased outside Croatia, so with import seeds unlike 62 years old when all sugar tails produced in Croatia were planted with seeds produced in Croatia. Should this be added, for example, that we are importing nuts for the production of pumpkin oil from China, and that, for example, the profitability of the production of butuino oil baskets compared to, say, the production of corn per hectare is about 4:1 a.m. And until we know what we're going to do with the corn, we're going to be importing bone from China. Unlike Croatia, Austria has a selection of seeds throughout the spectrum, so also cereals, but also vegetables, for example, we are now in a situation where we import seeds from Austria instead of being one of the major seed exporters in the European Union because we really have great advantages because we have a lot of knowledge on this, because we have a tradition, since we have also had a seed market and since we have real profits in agricultural production on seed production. Unfortunately, in this budget that we have neither in the projections for the next two years we see any indication that indeed the Ministry of Agriculture intends to support the development of seed production, and on the other hand, little seed production that we are destroying by the fact that those who produce, therefore, companies that do so cannot get the necessary amount of land.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48530	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48531	Well, my colleague Mršić and I agree on that, which is why I stressed that the inadmissible reduction of funds is precisely for seed production, because Croatia was once also a major exporter of corn seed and large exporter of seeds and tails and soybeans. Today, as you pointed out, we have no need for our own. On the other hand, we still have professional potential and should therefore work very hard to get the Institute of Seeding to restart these productions, which unfortunately have been destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48532	Thank you. And now we're done with this series of replicas. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the replica is nothing more than in its own sense and content of the counsel's words to respond to the quote of the representative who had previously spoken. It's a correction to an incorrect quote, it's commenting on a particular quote. Did we today enter something for the first time that in the replica MPs do not at all refer to what the predecessor said about what they reported for the replica but comment and refer to quite some other events and relationships. That's not the point or the meaning of the replica. I'm asking that we take care of it. A colleague of Arabović on a traffic wave with a tile I will not react and do not...... You're not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's not true! I've been following very closely, and it's not true. He can't wave with that tile right now. ... The replica or tile is raised in a way that the chairman can see it at the right time, and it does not wave within a fraction of a second. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please keep that in mind. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48533	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. If I am not mistaken today is exactly two years since the election, on November 23, 2003 there have been parliamentary elections and this is an event that has actually changed sides in this Parliament, but nothing important has happened in substance. The opposition acts as an opposition, a position as a position, but what remains is a bitter taste, which is that these two days we managed to masterly actually kill every sense of parliamentary debate. And I'm afraid, it reminds me that I come from a literature profession, somewhere about ten years ago, there was such a fierce controversy, whether the phone book was a literary work. And it's totally legitimate, a lot of people said there's a lot of characters, so these guys could do something, so there's some numbers, and I'm afraid we're acting exactly like each other today. ... This budget and then we start reading and now I could also read 30 figures from that figure and then make a significant comment and think I'm really right. [[You don't understand.]] And it's really probably not perfect in the details of the budget. Now the big question is whether it works as a whole. It's actually, it's what I think is the essence of every budget, especially those people who've been doing their job by making a budget. They also faced exactly how imperfect details fit into a rather acceptable whole. I'm afraid the way we act, the way the phone book reader does, that we won't actually make it to that acceptable whole. And finally, here the government is, and I'm glad that the President of the Parliament has in some way commented on and protected the principle of exclusion. If you don't give God, by any chance you don't think of one side then you're actually automatically getting features that I don't think in politics should be dominant. How now, why don't you put yourself in my position, how am I supposed to vote against this budget that's going to make the city of Osijek, and that's probably going to achieve some prosperity somewhere in an indirect way and around the region. Is that bad? I must admit, here I have been sitting in this House since 92 and I have been constantly trying to accomplish something called the even development of Croatia. And that's what I'm into, more or less, I haven't had any success. Nor began there from, it seems to me, Sarinić, then Valentiæ, then Matesh, then our coalition government, and now this is what happened the other day. Now, in fact, it should somehow put me in a very awkward position to be looking for something that, that is, now that it's being realized that I'm against it. I think we all say and like to say that the even development of Croatia is something that has no alternative. I also don't think I have to convince anyone here that we haven't all started from the same positions. Well, the situation wasn't ideal until 90. And then there were funds for the underdeveloped, and then there was also political struggles within that former party, just about who gives more, who actually works and pays for other people's unhappiness. We also today, wanted-not have to admit that Croatia is not equally developed for us. More now, take a banana, or banana, one very, one historical fact that we cannot just cross over it so elegantly. And yet something called war happened in these places. Osijek was just the largest urban environment that had just suffered aggression. And now the same thing I could be doing here, but I think it would be funny to convince anyone that they really are, that this is the period when the City of Osijek lost its rhythm. Not only the City of Osijek as some kind of centre, the mini metropolis of eastern Croatia, but now it really needs to show that the rhythm can be caught. I think, and it was my constant thesis that I've repeated before and I'll repeat it later, that it doesn't go without cooperation with the central government. And the central government must not show a maternal relationship. And the central government must have a selective approach. I certainly agree with yesterday when, exactly that you're not making too many differences. That actually from this one banal fact, the banal fact that now Osijek is finally going to get something, is now being translated immediately into political trade. She may have been able to play out in a more subtle way. After all, what happened two days ago is nothing more than my colleague Prime Minister Sanader and I signed in April, May of this year. Well, it's no one's whim, it's a need, it's the interests of the citizens of that city that I think also deserves to finally get some funds, a certain investment in his capital investment that he unfortunately cannot solve himself because there was war, there was this unfortunate privatisation. And a whole series of other processes that actually had unfairly placed this rich part of Croatia and, in fact, so far, that it has reached the edge of the poorer parts of the Republic of Croatia. And I don't think anyone's voice right now, no one's voice for that should really be offered under the heading of political trade or God forbid anything else. And, gentlemen, dear, it's not possible that it wasn't done before, that it wasn't done before in the '90s and after January 3rd. Well, thank God it's always at the end of the day, and I think Zadar's headed right by the fact that it's been said that that's where the road is going. And now really how from someone who wants to really be... A Croat and to say no, he doesn't need a road to Zadar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But also let me really think it's very important to build something called Corridor 5C. And that's exactly what he's going to raise Baranja, that he's going to lift up that part of Slavonia that road he's going through, and there's not even 100 kilometers away. 80 kilometers. And then it won't happen that you in Istria can't buy a square meter for 2,000 euros, and in Baranja you can buy very solid houses for 200 euros. It's something where the government really needs to expect to keep that in mind and try to make it all right with its own measures. And that's actually the role of any budget. And if in 2005, or 6th row, and that part of Croatia, so let's not really be, let's not be now because perhaps, I say, this arrangement, the arrangement may not be something more elegant, but it's kind of given to all the bells so it really feels like trade. And I would also, which is very important, he mustn't be virtual. Indeed, it must also be shown in the budgets that this will indeed happen. And that words go away and go away... , that word of this unfortunate treatment of mosquitoes that must be arranged to the highest world levels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because my colleague Letica warns me that there could really be annihilation of flora and fauna if it were to be done in one way that it is below those levels that environmental standards require. And bees are especially, bees are threatened And wolves, right. [[Intruder: And wolves.]] And wolves, yes. Especially wolves have to be careful even though they're not there yet. But what else we have to talk about, what we really need to talk about. If we are saying that it is high time for Croatia to get involved in all these Euro-Atlantic and Ine integration then let's see how this comes out of the crisis. Some people who are wiser than me and people who deal with this stuff say the crisis has been coming out as long as it is. Well, if we've been in a crisis for 10 years, then I'm obviously afraid we won't even get out before that. And now there must be exactly those particular development parameters that I also expect in this budget and where I also have as well as before certain remarks. It's precisely because, say, it seems to me that exports are being ignored again. Exactly, and even some Copenhagen criteria say that in fact no country, the transition country will not become a member of the European Union if its economy, its products are not competitive on the European market. Everything else is actually a bump, everything else is actually a nice story, but without realising on that European market. Secondly, whether we have these national players, whether we have such an economy, such recognizable products that we do indeed, what the Finns have, what the Swedes have, and what I think about that Croatia should also do, on some of its "brands" which would be competitive and which would then be that driver, the generator that Croatia finally gets out of this situation which is not further. Since these ten minutes are obviously too small, I'll still take my right, so maybe in someone. No, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48534	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vladimir Pleško.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48535	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Kramarić, said before the end of his presentation, we have been in crisis for the past 10 years. I'll remind you no matter what I'm a little younger to remember very well those crises and any stabilisation programs since the 1980s from Milk... and all the others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48536	Replica, 7. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48537	A colleague, Kramaric, said that every sense of parliamentary debate was killed, as MPs here read the figures. Well, it's what they're going to read to a colleague of Kramaric instead of numbers. That if you haven't read the budget that's your problem, this isn't a literary piece, this isn't a songbook. This is about numbers if you didn't know, there's no pictures. He also said, quote: "Put yourself in my position to vote against this budget because it is good for Osijek. It's Osijek's turn." So if we're going to use the alphabet to put out what cities are in order, then we'll go from "a" to "z" to "h" to "h" to "h" to "h" to "h" to "h" to "h" to "h" to "h" to "h." Well, this isn't the budget for Osijek, this is the budget for Croatia. This is the Croatian budget and we are discussing it in the Croatian Parliament. You don't have to justify yourself, we understand, you will vote for this Budget, vote, don't force us to feel sorry for you. You mention Atlantic integration. Do you know how much is foreseen in this budget for this "membership action" plan and for joining NATO? 300 thousand kuna, and last year there were 400,000 kunas. So it's one serious thing, it's really not to laugh. It's one of the essential things because it shows our relationship. They don't even matter that 100,000 kuna. I warn you once again, our relationship is important, and you vote whatever you want, don't make excuses, you have your own conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48538	By which the representative Kramaric, in no way did he mention the peace missions and the action plan and the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48539	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48540	What about the one that's been polymized with? Don't get in my word when I'm talking to Mr. Jurevic. Gentlemen, let's go back to the basic theme of what the replica institute is all about. ... Gentlemen, I beg you nicely for the last time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Stazic. And I'm warning you, Mr. Linic. You're not gonna raise your hands now and don't throw them at me. I warn you not to throw it at me. Replicate response, respected representative Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48541	Only once again, Col. Jurjevic proved he didn't understand anything, I leave him in his conviction. I haven't said for a moment that this isn't the Croatian budget, but it can't be a problem now that Osijek's turn to be such a big problem. I have nothing against Split, nothing against any investment in Split. Let me, I guess I have that right. ... Well, there were other stations, Mr. Jurevic, so you weren't so nervous. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48542	Gentlemen, it is my duty to ensure that every representative is undeniable or prevented in his speech. I am not obliged to suffer as any chairman to throw any representative off my bench. Besides being rude, it's also unbusinessful, and it's not a single chairman, and neither am I, as Parliament President, tolerate, and I will not tolerate. That is why when I warn myself of this throwback that is thrown out of my bench and commenting on my explanations of the application of the Rules of Procedure, what kind of way is it to go comment on, throw and evaluate it? The work of this Parliament is being thrown out by the greatest mockery, deliberately organised under the firm of correction, under the company of replicas in the most difficult way violates the Rules of Procedure. I call upon you to maintain the dignity of this House. The image we transmit to the public in this way was reflected in our reputation as a whole and as individuals in the evaluation of public change. Why is it used incessantly by the replica institute when the replica refers to the quote of the previous representative, not to mention a single word of what the representative was saying, but to comment on something quite tenth that has nothing to do with the MPs' resignation? Aren't those who do so aware of the role of the Croatian Parliament in public? According to the individual's statements, the behavior and style of individuals judge our overall. I am obliged to protect the integrity of the Croatian Parliament. I have my Rules of Procedure, legal and constitutional powers. I will not and must not allow anyone to obstruct such a species that are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, such a distortion of the meaning of the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and I will not allow it by either the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Government or any parliamentary representative, or any party or any club. Let's stand tight on the ground. I should now or should agree to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, for each replica, which is not a replica, but a comment of some government policy is an assessment, regardless of what, I should give notices to an agent under Article 214. Then it would lead to a warning that they were looking for club breaks and that they were being made. ... Gentlemen, you're going to comment every step of the way. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I have a duty to explain. You got it. ... I've warned from this place a hundred times that it's the correcting of an incorrect allegation, which is the subject. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I have to do it again, Article 210 of the Rules of Procedure. Well, didn't we have countless discussions and at the Bureau of Parliament, the extended presidency there must be held by the speaker and now he stays in the Rules of Procedure and it was if the speaker does not stick to the topic that the chairman is obliged to warn him, if he continues to have to take his word away. It's the same in correcting incorrect allegations. Permanently, I am required to agree to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I do not address it to any party, I address it to all and MPs and MPs who often, in certain situations, ask me to actually and chair the Rules of Procedure and to tolerate a breach of the Rules of Procedure. One piece, and that's why we have such a reiting in the Croatian public. Gentlemen and ladies, you are not going to take me out of a beat even though it is a persistent attempt, but I advise you that those who have come forward now for the replicas to be exposed to Agent Zlatko Kramarić to take care of it. I'll give you an injury to the Rules of Procedure to say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Representative Josip Leko is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48543	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I do not doubt your good intentions but you have given a lesson to all MPs and the Rules of Procedure invites you to individually edit the warnings of order in the assembly and not to blame everyone for how you want to present it. I do not feel responsible for your position or for the position of individual members in this House. Be measured and lead the Parliament as you said, according to your rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48544	There are a dozen provisions in the Rules of Procedure that regulate the rights and obligations of President-in-Office of the Parliament. It has general provisions, it has individual provisions. I try to do the best I can and stick to them and try to treat all MPs, to all clubs equally in accordance with my rules of procedure, that's what I'm going to do. And like everyone else, I'm not even infallible, but I really have the best intention and the intention of applying the Rules of Procedure equally according to which our business order is equal to all. I hope that we have now absorbed this part of the debate. Is that still a request or is it implicit, colleague Linic?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48545	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48546	Thank you very much. We have stepped on the procedural replica of the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48547	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kramaric, I will now replicate to you with the risk of re-exposing the anger of the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48548	I'm not angry and I won't be angry. Here, we won't have Faulkner and the fruits of anger harvested.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48549	Which the Replica Institute understands the rope from the Institute of Correction of an incorrect allegation, depending on which side and who is behind that institute, whether HDZ representatives or SDP representatives are in a justified and accurate analysis of this budget. Mr. Kramaric, you say you'll vote against this budget when it brings such benefits to Osijek, but give me the budget. I'm really surprised to see where those benefits are. Show me one item, quote me one page. Well, look, the road, that highway, that part of Corridor 5C over there from Osijek, I guess, to Shamac for which it needs 4 billion kuna, so that's in the budget and in the projection for three years only one billion and 400 million kuna. In three years, the highway from Zagreb to Split was built. So that's how it's built if it wants to be built. Look, if you want to buy votes to pass one budget, then this is what you're offering. 1.4 billion in three years. And it takes 4 billion a hundred kilometers. So tell me, show me those items, or you'll pass like these gullible people of the Municipality of Saint Juraj on the hill which Prime Minister Sanader said "your vote for HDZ is a vote for the construction of the sports hall" and the sports halls are gone. They gave a voice and they didn't get the gym. So will you and all those who have feelings.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48550	Answer to the replica Mr. Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48551	You see, dear fellow Stazic, that's when you take a really phone book and then some last name and names and numbers really fall out. That's how it happened to you. If you had read a little more carefully, you would have come along, but if you wanted to listen to me carefully and didn't actually have an ideological animosity prepared in advance, then you would have heard that I said it, and that I was very virtual. I also... I'm looking for evidence, but even in a phone book like this, the way you read it, you can find it, just a little more carefully, start reading and writing, it says. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have time, the replica institute isn't, but it says. So you're lucky there isn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48552	Thank you. Replica Mr. Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48553	Dear counterpart Kramaric, you are wondering how you will not now vote for the budget where there are so many billions of kunas for Osijek. Equally, we should ask ourselves how that after 15 years came the order of Osijek. How come for 15 years there was no need for the citizens of Osijek to solve the problems in Osijek, and now suddenly they are. Ask yourself whether Osijek would have come to order if you had stayed mayor, or then the citizens of Osijek would not have these needs that they now have and which so wisely recognised the Government of Ivo Sanader. You see, the problem is that Prime Minister Sanader is not looking at the needs of the citizens, but at the needs of the vote for the budget and looking where someone is mayor. That's the problem. Because if there were clear criteria, then Osijek would certainly come to order in 2004. Then you shouldn't wait for such a set of circumstances to happen so that such an avalanche of mosquitoes is in Osijek and finally recognize the need. Well, no mosquitoes were created in 2004. And it's time to confess to Prime Minister Sanader. Well, he's doing a great job. Imagine, he deals with mosquito spraying and runs the country. Instead of dealing with state-run affairs, he also deals with mosquito spraying. But I'm asking myself how is there now money for Osijek and there's no money for any school in Koprivnica? How is there no money for water supply in Koprivnica-križevci County that has the lowest availability of the public water supply system in the Republic of Croatia? Well, it's the same needs of the citizens. It's just as much the needs of citizens. How come there's no road to the Gradec-Koprivnica state border? How come there's no way to reconstruct the most profitable railroad? How come there's no money... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48554	Answer to the replica Mr. Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48555	Mr. Mršić, I'm just asking you to be a little more careful when someone's talking and then not giving the first ball that seems to have been said. It was very clear, very clear that it was actually amazing that it had not happened in 15 years. That's amazing, and I'm really wondering how that didn't happen. So I said in the former coalition government, this is how I spoke to the position of citizens about how to resuscitate the Bank of Rijeka without resuscitating Slavonian banks. How is it to be rehabilitated, to rehabilitate the shipbuilding of Viktor Lenac without the PICs in Osijek-Baranja County? So I asked these questions clearly, very clearly and loudly. And in the meetings of five, six and here, from this House. I've never run away from exactly what I'm saying from a citizen's position because she's been saving neither Rijeka nor belongs to this political party here, but she's a citizen who's been through the way he's been. So don't impute me to something I didn't really mean and say, but if it happens now that Osijek has got its status, its position in the budget so it can't... I expect as the former mayor of a politician who finally has some electoral base to say now, "Now you know, I'm not going to vote because it's a trade as if it wasn't before." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I think if you're really going to say that before the budgets were passed without trade then we should prove it not to me but to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48556	Replica, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, I have to say and commend Mr. Kramaric's speech because he discovered what I've been talking about all day. And that's what we hear from Mr. Stazic and some of the SDP. So he said fine, Mr. Kramaric: if you don't think like me, you're a political trader. So that's an advance day of conviction. Well, that's the whole situation. Then we'd be in a one-party system if everyone thought the same thing. It wouldn't be a party here. It would be a socialist alliance. That's the problem with that. When we supported your budget while you were in power, you didn't say we were political merchants. We supported him for the development of Dalmatia. To build a highway. And normally now we support for Slavonia. Well, it's time for Slavonia to turn up. So let's talk about it that way. So you made mistakes, you didn't invest in Slavonia. Here's Kramaric who's... in the coalition government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let us think positively. Let's think about getting what's guaranteed back. It means it's stolen. Let's also think about taking what belongs to us from the gray economy. Let's not sell military properties. Let's think about it that way. Not think the way you want us to think what you're thinking. And then you place it in public. Well, we're not a socialist alliance. We're parties here. We have our own program, you have your own program. That's what it's all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48558	Thank you. Replica Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48559	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of Karamaric's, you've determined that the government must have a selective approach. I'd agree with that, too. However, the question of the selection is raised, and what are the selection criteria? Are the criteria for selecting the needs of citizens in a particular city in a particular county or what is the political set? If you say, "I will support it if this amendment is adopted." If, in secret, before or publicly with a particular political group, talks are held and the team is satisfied and this second one is rejected before the government has seen what to call the situation? You say political trade has been before. You yourself claimed during the coalition government that a highway had arrived in Zadar. When the local HDZ campaigned for 10 years for the highway to go through Bosnia. Then who was in power in HDZ, Zadar, and who is today? And in the county? And we didn't take care of which one is, does it fit the central government in the field? So there is not only a question of Zadar and Zadar County but of any other city, and today it is, and it wants to equate, to bring out a complete situation. And today it's not like that. Today, where mayors and commissioners who are not from the same political options come to them by the financial police. They're being questioned for diplomas, and they're being given here on a voluntary basis even for dusting. But they only give, let's be realistic. Only promises are made. We've seen no credit cards here, no warrant cards, no signatures. You can give it to Dr. Ivo Sanader, who was spoken of by a respected colleague, Zgrebec, eventually loses everyone. It's just that some immediately refuse, and some still illusory, still living in their illusions...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48560	And they act, and they act by promise. Thank you very much, thank you very much. [[- Thank you very much, ma'am.]] It's been a while. Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48561	Dear fellow Anticevic. And I really don't see what he's got, which is problematic when it's said there has to be a selective approach. Well, I really think it's clear to everyone that Croatia is back 15 years, but I've only spoken since 1990. Of course I didn't, and I said if you heard correctly that before 1990 it wasn't ideal either. There are indeed several Croatians. There's too rich, there's a little less rich, and there's a God who's poor. And the selective principle is that you invest exactly where you need to, and that there's just one crazy political animosity in us that all depends on what political, party barbarians wind up in county, city administration that's nonsense. ... I agree with that, but if you really want to object to someone like this that they sent financial and ina, and the police, that's exactly what I've been doing for 15 years and I have my own opinion on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it was bad because Osijek had to wait this long. And it's this whole space that we really need to re-valorize it. And he deserves it. And don't now that it's happened to me to say because of that fact right now that maybe it wasn't all the more elegant or it could have been more discreet now that I don't, that you expect me to be against that bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48562	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48563	Otherwise, I have to say that I agree with Mr. Shakespeare that this debate has led to absurdity with all this number of replicas. But I'm not replicating Mr. Shakespeare, I'm replicating Mr. Kramaric. And Mr. Kramaric says at one point, "It's Osijek's turn." Okay. None of us here have anything against Osijek in this assembly or outside of it. Yes, of course. Osijek needs help. But the problem is something else, Goldie. What is introduced is the principle: The vote for the budget will be won, you will get against. If you're against the budget, then I won't let you. It is a disaster and such a budgetary policy leads to the division of Croatia. It's not just politics. It turns into a simple inn. Of course it's a replica. It is clear that it is necessary to build corridor C. So this should be welcomed and therefore some resources are provided in this Budget as well as for 10 or other routes of highways in the Republic of Croatia. But you should take care of all those who set out in that budget or inputs. The budget is also being filled by you, filled by me, filled by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's not just being filled by HDZ, HSP and LS. And the rest of you are part of Croatia. The rest of you deserve to get a piece of that same calculation. And finally, I agree, each government must take care of all its regions, and I give Osijek 750 million kunas, and let's say Istria from the Croatian Waters' funds nothing. It's a crime to the budget. It is a crime against all other parts of Croatia. Because it leads... /The speaker has been excluded./... the division of Croatia for which many Emotions have bled. And you were finally at the head of that resistance. But I also agree that this political trade is such a type or perhaps even worse introduced far, far before 2005 and this is a Croatian tragedy And that can only be solved by decentralisation of this country. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48564	Thank you. Thank you very much. And I would advise if I could make this word a crime in terms of that budget, so I think it's an exaggeration if we're honest. If he's using the word crime. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48565	Actually, my colleague Cain doesn't even know how much he and I agree. I was also saying, instead of decentralisation, I use the word equal development of the Republic of Croatia. I may not have said the most difficult thing and Osijek has come to order, but it is precisely in some truly our total why not Osijek. And it certainly is not good principles to get the impression that it must be voted for the budget. But at first I said, gentlemen in the details of the budget isn't perfect, but let's just say that it works as a whole and really what are his strategic ones, if there's anything we really can do about it. I also recognized some shifts with a whole series of remarks that I also said, what it must be, or others I haven't even been able to say what kind of privatisation must be, strengthen exports and actually keep my family silver, not run into some activities that could once again bring back what we were 15 years old, just that. But also even development means the development of eastern Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48566	Thank you very much. And finally more replicas, Ms. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48567	Dear Vice President. Here is a distinguished colleague Kramarić Istrians certainly have nothing against building a 5C corridor or something that really needs Osijek, but they certainly have against the way in which it is decided where these funds will go and who has agreed, and because the criteria do not exist. But I would therefore like to remind you that there is no one kilometer of highway in Istria and that we pay the most expensive toll on the fast road, or 28 kuna for the tunnel and 5 kuna for the bridge. 14, there's 5 kuna on the hole. [[Intruder: 14.]] 14 kunas for the bridge and now 28 plus 14, calculate how much money it is. Therefore, also that part of Croatia deserves to have its corridors and highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48568	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48569	Look, I'm fond of being a virgin, and I really respect that. I've lived for a while over the year in Istria. I also get really if anything is worth it in the Assembly to make sure we cancel the payment of the tunnel through Učka. It will be an even closer merger between Croatia's Istria and this second part of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48570	Thank you very much. We have also concluded this chapter on a debate. We're moving on, we're moving on. It's Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48571	Dear Mr. Vice President and Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Each budget is 50% politics, 50% economy. Depends on what kind of increase anyone's looking at. This is how it looks with only the left eye, then this budget is wrong, if it looks at the right eye, then the budget is ideal. And I will try to look with both eyes, which means the language of numbers and arguments. Yesterday we saw one left basket and it's a political means of fighting, and I welcome it. But I have to point out that the HTV diary has our television closed to the right eye, because it showed a basket to the left, and it hasn't said that there have been 14 arguments on it, documented corrections of false allegations. But that's a policy I don't accept. But let's get back to the budget. What is the quality of this budget, and why do I support it? Because he is the lever of the Croatian Government's development programme. Let us not forget what the government and what economic programme it has experienced and inherited. We inherited the defeat of gross national income, but on the burden of what. The burden of first one-time foreign borrowing. And secondly, the great deficit of the general state. In this way, this government did not want to continue the economic programme because it is a destructive way, very dangerous, it is an economic tsunami that must end badly if it continues for years. Because borrowing and... It also excludes us from the world economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why this government has brought in another program. She turned the tsunami into a maestral. It's a local wind blowing from the west, which is very good because it's strong and announces a better time. And what better time? That this economy will also develop gross national income growth, but not on the basis of new borrowings abroad, and not on the basis of an increase in the general government deficit inherited by 6.3% according to IMF records. And therefore, with this programme, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing two fundamental things, and that is why it is good. The economic lift continues, according to indicators to be presented, but on the basis of an increase in production, based on fiscal discipline, on a reduction in external debt dynamics, on the basis of a reduction in the general government deficit and on an increase in exports compared to an increase in imports. And that's what he's solidified this budget, founded it for another year, and that's why he needs to be welcomed. By believing in this budget, we are certain that the following indicators recorded this year will be further improved, which is gross national income rising at a rate of 3.9 to 4%, but without an increase in borrowing, so I am talking about the dynamics of borrowing and without the rise of the general government deficit, so something which is definitely a weight that the long economy cannot withstand. That industrial production in this year, in the first nine months that passed, what was behind us, is growing at a rate of 4.9%, which is more than last year when industrial production grew at a rate of 3 and a half percent after many years. That within this industrial production which is now the cornerstone of development unlike the last economy, within these components is run by a processing industry with an increase of 5.8%, therefore again the foundation of the economy. Manufacture of machinery, which especially cheers the production of food that has increased 5.8% over the past 9 months and significantly reduced food imports. It should be said that if we rule out ships, and we know why we rule them out from these records, that imports grew at a rate of 12.3%, sorry, exports grew at a rate of 12.3% and imports at a rate of 9%, which is a significant inversion to the previous mandate. It should also be said that the general government deficit with an enormous 6.3%, we have already talked a lot about it, has been reduced, is 4.2% and that the target is 3.3% next year, i.e. the ultimate target by 3 years 2%, so the European Union criterion. I'm not going to talk about the number of unemployed right now, there will certainly be opportunities in a number of replicas, but I would say another indicator that is rarely quoted, which is very important for the general state of affairs, a picture of the general state of the economy, that is an index called the financial results of the business of entrepreneurs. This is a very important index that says that over the past year, almost two years, the business performance index of entrepreneurs has increased by 10.7%. And that's the biggest increase in 15 years. Also, the revenues of entrepreneurs are 6.7% higher by the cost of entrepreneurs, which is the biggest difference in the past 15 years. And that's why I think the maestral is the wind that announces good weather. Based on these indicators, we also have the revenue side of this budget. In the revenue side, all the elements are positive and I see no reason not to continue to accept such a trend, i.e. the budget. Income tax is up 3.2%. Why didn't we know more because the laws on that tax were changed? The profit tax has increased 27%, by the end of the year 30%, which is the biggest increase so far, and that indicator of successful business. The VAT as the largest share of money in the budget is up 8.5%, contributions for pension 5.6%, for the healthcare system 6.6%. So the money entry is bigger as a result of that economic trend and the programme that I have listed earlier. And as a result, the expenditure side of this budget comes. It guarantees that this trend will continue and that I am personally looking at the figures, so with both eyes, both left and right, very pleased. In the development phase on social security, there might be a time later. In the development phase, it is again necessary to say how much of the ministry's axis and programmes they are leading, which lead to such successful progress without new borrowings and without fiscal indiscipline, get more money than last year. It's an indicator like anywhere in the world. So let's see how much the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship has won. With 26 billion and 200, it came to 29 billion and 200, which is 7.3%. Within the ministry, individual projects have also received significantly greater support. I'll only mention a few of them. 390 million incentive shipbuilding. Someone said it was less than last year, of course something less because it involves restructuring shipbuilding that will now require less funds than last year. The increase in the competitiveness of Croatia's industry gets 63 million and 600 thousand which is 56% more than last year, which is the cancer of our economy's wounds, because competitiveness as we know it is not at European level. For export incentives to further increase the trend in exports compared to the trend in the increase in imports, it amounts to as much as 28 million. Investment incentives that are the second cancer of our economy, 10 million which is 92% more than last time. And what I might like most is that these are economic zones, small and medium-sized enterprises that have experienced in the term of this government 554 registration of the entrepreneurial zone, let half of them live to be 100,000 jobs. This year, in this budget, the government is financing the infrastructure of these entrepreneurship zones with 92 million kuna. This, of course, needs to be added to HABOR and funds that further encourage this development. In addition, subsidies for entrepreneurs other than HABOR and all other Regional Development Funds, etc. There's 22 million here. So economic development is encouraged, economic development will continue, and we see this from the agriculture and forestry budget that is greater by 11.9%, we see it from the budget of the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development which is greater by 36.7% and finally not less important, we see it from the increase in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which is greater by 6.6% and the answer to those who said it is small and that it does not guarantee better education, we need to see that capital investment for the Bologna process, meaning for higher education by 50 million kuna, is 250 million kuna, which is 24.5% more than last year. After these figures, of course, you can say that I looked at them with my right eye, but the figures always come to the surface and we'll see in a year the same economic indicators as they are now, and that will contribute to this very budget. All we have to do is mention the total debt. There are objections here that debt is growing. Debt has been stopped, which means that in the past five months, for the first time in the month, there is less responsibility than in previous years, and that is what encourages and which is why we should believe in this programme and support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48572	Thank you very much. Here's only three corrections and four replicas, which is still an improvement compared to this earlier. First correction of the incorrect quote, Mr Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48573	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd only correct one incorrect assumption. Namely, the esteemed representative Hebrang said that the maestral blows from the west. That's not true, maestral is the wind that usually blows in the summer period and it blows from the southeast in the morning and it blows from the direction of the sun. So his direction changes depending on the position of the sun. Winds from the west are other winds, they are called leprosy, i.e. tramontana, and the wind that announces the storm is trampled, so the weather is ugly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48574	Thank you very much. This was a nice touch, this explanation, and hopefully it won't turn the tramontana into a storm, and that the leprosy is very dangerous. Let's move on. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48575	Mr. Vice President, a colleague of Hebrang himself said that he had two-eyed views, but that he sometimes sees one and I can understand it now. I can understand that debate, and I respect that debate. However, it has been found incorrectly that the debt of the State is less than when the current government is on the scene. It's just not true. The country's annual debt has increased by both this year since this power is on stage and is now 54% of GDP or gross domestic product, and has been increased enormously as regards domestic borrowing. However, this issue is a matter of professional and monetary and fiscal policies and experts where it is better to be in charge. Some say the most dangerous thing you've ever done is to disintegrate the battery from domestic banks. That's how you limit credit and domestic battery development. If that's the claim that there's a reduced duty, I'm not sure you've done a good job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48576	Thank you very much. The view with the left and right eye is objective if there is no cataract, but that's why we have Dr. Buchanan and we'll sort it out. Right? Mr. Marin Jurjevic, also a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48577	This budget for next year provides for 300 million kuna for shipbuilding. Col. Hebrang incorrectly said it would be enough for Croatian shipyards, otherwise a reduction compared to what the 2005 budget predicted for shipyards. Why won't it be enough? Because according to data from Croatian shipyards delivered to the Croatian government in the last two years, unfortunately losses are 7 billion kunas, or billions of dollars. I don't see how you can handle this 300 million. You'd be a magician and everyone would bless you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48578	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. The first to reply came from Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48579	Mr. Hebrang here said we saw a left basket here yesterday. Mr. Hebrang, we haven't seen a left basket, we've seen a basket of Croatian poor women, those who only have 31 kunas per day for food. And the second thing I'd like to paralyze is your thesis that the past government owed the state a great deal, that it created a great deficit and that you didn't want to go on like that. You went on, Mr. Hebrang. Unfortunately, you didn't do anything about it. That's what he's warning you, for example. both the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Competitiveness Council, which warns you in its latest material, that Croatia is reaching 80% of its responsibilities very quickly, hence external responsibilities, and that this is the limit of the state's high debt. What you've done is you've slowed down your external duties a little bit, but you've significantly increased your internal responsibility. It's a debt, and somebody's gonna pay for it, they're gonna pay for the citizens of this country. And just one more thing, Mr. Hebrang. For Christmas kids order presents, adults pay. The deficit is created when adults order from the state, but children pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48580	Thank you very much. Mr. Andri Hebrang's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48581	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I called the basket left because it's based on the wrong statistical indicators. A basketball that's calculated on a union basis over one salary would really look like this. It's fortunate that we have 1.7 employees per family, and then we need another 0.7 of these baskets for one family. So you twisted the indicators and that's why I called the left because I think it's typical of you. As for the debt, I'm glad I can answer the wrong assumption. In fact, the debt definitely for the last 7.6 to 7 months at the monthly level decreases, which means good dynamics. Debt goes down, not up as it went before. And another thing, in the structure of the debt state, over the last year, 34.3% came to 28.5%. The rest are bank debts and businesses. So the state is doing its part, and I hope the National Bank will do its part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48582	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48583	Well, I'd just like to say something about this borrowing. Yes, indeed, the state is in debt on the domestic market but that is why those who lend credit to the State are in debt on the foreign market. And how does the Croatian state do that I will now tell you on an example. So, in the 12th month of 2004, the government held a session in Rijeka where it reportedly started building a 541 million kuna campus. A loan and a contract with a long-term club loan of 490 million kuna with a euro-related currency clause between the banks' trade unions Erste Steiermarkische, "Privredna" and "Zagrebačka Banka". Apparently none are owned by Croatia as a creditor and Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as a credit user. Therefore, since 490 million kunas of credit were signed, one would believe that students today live and work on that campus. However, today, at this moment in the river is made... the entire campus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is agreed to produce project documentation for the university department at the campus of the Faculty of Philosophy, the Higher Teacher School and the first phase of student accommodation and nutrition and the competition was carried out and a decision was made on the selection of contractors for the adaptation of the former military. So for a year and a half, this country has taken out a loan, banks have secured funds, costs have been incurred, deficits have been created, and students are still where they were a year and a half ago. So the deficit exists, and it's not used in any way, let alone what really was the point of investing in knowledge as an incentive for future development. And as for entrepreneurship zones, you can see from that 92 million kuna you will be able to assign an average of 184 thousand kuna to the municipal infrastructure, which is approximately enough for 182 metres of sewerage.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48584	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48585	Thank you very much. As for the first part of Mršić's presentation, it is indeed in the dynamics of late works, but I am surprised that this comes from you fellow Mršić, who comes from Koprivnica. And this is a typical example of illogical, counter-regular, uneconomic and unwarranted investments. I'm talking about the hospital. A 30 million dollar loan was taken from the World Bank. Of that, $11 million was spent on intellectual services. It is required from the state budget to fund 100 million kuna, which is illegal, not to list Article 8. Health care laws and everything. Then the city is in debt so much that he's over-indebted and more Koprivnica can't lift any of the loans. So I'm surprised it comes from you who are the author of this kind of economic project. And as for your other, other notes, entrepreneurial zones. I'm sorry you didn't listen to me. I said, entrepreneurship zones are financed from HABOR, from local funds, from regional development funds, and only then from the item I mentioned. And all together when you add up I'm sure that these entrepreneurial zones within the deadline that it's drawn for, it's from the next 3 to 5 years, I'm sure it's going to open hundreds of thousands of jobs and this budget makes it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48586	Thank you. Replica, too, Mr. Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48587	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Hebrang, I don't really have any objections to your exposure because what you're saying is true. The rate of development of this budget is projected to be around 4%. You are satisfied with industrial production which will grow at a rate of 5.8% and you are satisfied that export coverage by imports is about 50%, 49% seems more accurate to me. However, we differ in our opinion. We believe in the HSS Club and I personally need a rate of development from 6 to 8%. We believe that it is time that this is the third budget in the Assembly that we should have seen the country's development strategy as well. And we think that in the past 99, we had a growth rate of -0.9%, and we showed from 2000 to 2003 that the rate could be over 4 and even 5%. Well, probably now, at least in that respect, we should and might be a little bit better. We were another country in transition in that period according to the rate of growth. Now we've fallen to 7th, 8th or 9th place. These are the indicators that we should discuss here, but this budget has no mechanisms because there are no goals of moving production, how to reroute capital transfers to the industry that we understand should have a growth rate between 10% and 15% and not 5.8. Because that's the only way we can move the unemployment rate from 300 grand to 200 grand that you're up for. Finally for the zones, entrepreneurship zones are being worked for 6 years in a row, so it's perfectly logical, colleague Hebrang, that we now have 500 but it's illogical that after 6 years we invest only 90 million kunas in them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48588	Answer, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48589	I'm not going to repeat to Mr. Pecek, a respected representative, about entrepreneurship zones because I already told you twice, so he can take the record. But I will answer about my 4% GDP growth satisfaction. I never said I was satisfied with that because that would be a representative in this House, especially in our government who would say he was pleased. Of course, that's why we work because we're not satisfied. But why do transition countries go 6% and we go 4%? Comrade Pacek, you may have forgotten, we've had eight years of war. The war ended on January 15, 98, so I'm not surprised that 2000 was a negative GDP. Let me remind you, 2000. NATO's attack on Serbia has lifted tourism. One tourist season that brought 90% less than expected is also the reason it was a negative increase. I should further perhaps remind you of the condition in which the economic facilities were before the war? Only one data, 50% of the companies in 1990 had a higher value than their total share capital, etc., etc. Therefore, when the wounds heal, and this year we treat them with 8 billion kunas that we give to the consequences of Serbian aggression, 8 billion kunas. Imagine we're putting them in entrepreneurship zones. Well, of course, until we heal those wounds, our rate cannot reach the rate of the Czech Republic, Slovakia and other friendly countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48590	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hebrang reads a lot of statistics and, of course, depending on how we read them, we try to show our picture to the citizens of Croatia. Production growth and that and industrial production, we say 5%, and let's forget to tell citizens that in the last few months the growth of stocks is over 10%. Especially food supplies. What does that mean, gentlemen? It's a new tip of indifference. So the problem of non-payments is on the threshold, whichever time we run away from statistics and talk about reality. It's not just a problem of supplies that will lead to non-payment between the economies, the problem is the railways a billion kunas of unpaid bills, the problem is builders in highways that haven't been able to collect their claims in the last two months, the problem is co-operatives, shipyards that will have problems because they don't solve losses at one billion dollars. Yes, these are gentlemen's actual data, that's what they'll see to the businessmen and know to recognize in this budget independently of statistical data. Speaking of debt, I'm sending a message that the debt is foreign, foreign, stopped and slowed down. Gentlemen, the Croatian state is in debt both outside and at home, their debt and the spirit of the Croatian state has been growing enormously in the last two years, only this year 15 billion will be further in debt, and then citizens also know about former government debt, not foreign debt were building highways, editing things both in the INA and HEP and in the Croatian railways, and we have to say in these two years abandoned railways, abandoned projects in the INA, and where are these money being owed? That's them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48592	Answer, Mr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48593	Thank you, Reverend, for saying that I read statistics, I don't read them, I teach them because without it there's no creation, and without creation there's no progress. As for the growth of stock stocks, the fact is that we have increased production and the fact that we currently have depreciation and sales in the form of stock growth. It is temporary and it is a normal economy known as the situation, but it should also be said that because of this increase in the production of the decline in imports, export growth, and it should also be said that with 10% of the stock we have for the first time this year over 20% of food imports, so let our stock be better off than we spend importing it, we will already eat it. As far as the growing debt is concerned, it's the same lock as the maestral, the maestral is called the northwest, I'm swimming a lot, so I know, so I've appealed to that name northwest and for me, the maestral is a good wind just because it's coming from the northwest, and what's going to the east might like someone else, I don't, but in any case, the same lock you've done now and with that debt. The debt only grows in the part where I pay off the loans you made up to the level of 27 billion kuna in 3 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48594	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Madam Representative Jagoda Martic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The state budget is one of the government's most important documents that best speaks about the government's work and its vision of the country's further development. It is clear that the government wants to use the document as a kind of EPP for its work, so it is not surprising that these days the prime minister and individual members of the government could hear praises on the issue of the State budget for 2006, so Prime Minister Sanader pointed out that the proposed budget reflects both the development and social but also the balanced policy of his government. They could be heard in public these days as well as estimates that 8 billion are higher than this year's budget, proof of the rise of the domestic economy. All these and similar findings are far from true truth and true state of affairs in Croatia today. It is not about any take-off of the domestic economy, but I would say about the ordinary game of large numbers, i.e. the government included 2.9 billion kunas of revenue from the Croatian highways, 465 million kuna from the European Union funds, and 361 million from the state's own revenues in 2006. When all this is summed up, then we come to such a large sum, and the government again in the EPP style declares that this is the biggest budget so far, and actually the revenue side is high, and the spending party is too tense to fulfill the promises made to pensioners, defenders and births, but regardless of what the state will next year increase the expenditure on salaries and social incomes of citizens of around 3 billion kuna compared to this year, these increases will not be felt in individual receipts of budget beneficiaries as they would like. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Croatian Union Association has given this proposal to the 2006 budget, which says that the budget is neither developmental nor social. Inflation has increased and reached 3.2% of GDP growth is stagnating, recall that the former coalition government of GDP from a minus 0.9% at the start of government behaviour has increased to 5.2% in 2002, this government has reduced it to 3.8%. The reduction has been continued, so it is clear that citizens can expect further burdens. The cost of living is increasing, and budget users' salaries have been limited for a long time, so it is obvious that even in 2006 we cannot expect to improve our standard of living. This budget sends citizens a clear message with lower wages and pensions you will be able to buy less because prices are growing faster. It is true that pension spending items are increasing, but this will not eliminate a huge difference in the amount of retirement pensions of old and new generations of pensioners who have risen to 600 kuna. The government will increase the total allocations for maternity benefits, but this does not mean that the monthly amount of maternity leave fees will be changed as the number of women who use the right to paid leave increases. So much for the social side of the budget. As far as development is concerned, it is not clear to me on the basis of which the Government argues that this budget has been developing in a situation where the economy has been stagnating for a long time, there is no possibility of discharging the economy anywhere in the budget. Smaller economic growth means there is no possibility of increasing wages, pensions and improving health services. The government's debt is constantly growing, and the government is trying to create an illusion that it is falling because it stresses that foreign debt has slowed down, and figures say that gross foreign debt was 19.8 billion euros in 12 months 2003, and in 8 months 2005, according to CNB data, 24 billion euros. Internal debt has been increased by 20 billion kuna. Considering all this, it is clear why the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in its annual report "transition report" in 2005 found that Croatia has made no progress in its transition process in any category in the last year. Therefore, it is obvious that Croatia is not running ahead of time but backwards. I would refer to some specific points of the proposal for a State budget for 2006. Last year, we adopted the Protection and Rescue Act in this House, and we all agreed that the protection and rescue system is very important for the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore surprising that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service did not find its place in the 2006 Budget. It, however, has been allocated funds of 760 thousand kuna in the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development because this ministry has clearly recognised the contribution and significance of the HGSS in the development of modern forms of tourism, then there are increasingly developing different adventure forms of tourism that inevitably bear greater risks and dangers for the citizens and then the operation of the HGSS is of invaluable importance. The Mountain Rescue Service also found its place in the Ministry of Health and Social Care in the position of preparing for cases of major accidents and incidents and there were 300 thousand kunas allocated for the mountain rescue service. However, the HGSS did not find its place in the state budget either at the Ministry of Interior or at the positions of the State Protection and Rescue Authority. The security, protection and rescue of human lives is certainly a public need, a strategic precondition for tourism, transport, life and investment in the Republic of Croatia. The HGSS operates where it is most difficult and dangerous, extracting the victims from minefields, searching for crashed aircraft, saving citizens and tourists at sea, underwater, in canyons, etc. We all know that, the public admires them, foreign diplomats write their thanks and express admiration. There is no place for them only in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. More and more frequently in the media, the successful actions of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service are reported but the titles of the type "Saviors themselves must pay for fuel and food" or "Because of the undefined law, members of the mountain rescue service warn of insufficient equipment and too little money" etc. There is an agreement between the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Mountain Rescue Service on the implementation of the programme, improving security outside cities and public roads. An agreement has been reached to build the programme's mountain rescue service and the MUP will finance the implementation of the programme. Now the interior minister says their obligation has shifted to the state's protection and rescue administration. And I wonder if that's the case, so where's the position for Croatia's mountain rescue service? She's gone. But that's why there's an enormous increase of a thousand 111, I mean, of course, the index, on the item "other unremarked operating expenditures", so I don't understand what these unremarked operating expenditures are that such a huge increase is planned. A significant increase of 5 thousand 315 is also foreseen on the item "Promise and Information Service" or, for example, an increase of 5 thousand 333 for intellectual and personal services but the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service has no name and last name anywhere. The Ministry of Health and Social Services. With the budget offered, it seems to me that most of the health care institutions' operating conditions will be worse than those of 2005. The HZZO expenditure plan as part of the position of the Ministry of Health and Social Care provides for expenditure from the Institute in 2006 to be realistically lower than those in 2005, somewhere in the amount of 99.28. Thus, such a reduction points to difficult operating conditions in 2006 and to the creation of new ongoing losses. For the health reform programme, 15 million 420 thousand kuna were planned and 3 million 761 thousand and 680 kuna were planned for 2005 for the health system reform programme. Now, I don't know what kind of health care reform program you're thinking about. If this implies introducing an administrative fee or abolishing travel costs below 100 km away and now, for example, people who go from the island to haemodialysis or chemotherapy in the Split hospital have significant financial costs, that I do not list all other cases and problems that have arisen from the introduction of these measures because it seems to me that this is the only thing we have seen from the health reform. So, if such measures are meant under the health system reform, then we really need to be afraid of what it will bring us in 2006 given the increase in the amount of 409. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48596	Thank you very much. We have four corrections and one replica. The first is the correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48597	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! My colleague said so much inaccuracy that it would take me ten minutes as she had the right to do so. I'll talk a little faster. We didn't stop Croatia. You've been stopping her in all your social and state affairs and we've launched her in the following way by building still highways and roads, Peljesac Bridge, GDP growth this year 4%, since 2004, the best year of tourism. We have restored dignity to Croatian defenders, mothers of childbirth. You said for sure that this year the user would be more in charge of maternity benefits. Thank God that's right, it's the real basis of the economic and political situation in Croatia since the last two years. We pay back the pensioners' debt, we get candidate status to start negotiations with the European Union. Investment in science and education every year from 6% in 2006 to 7%, development plan for education.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48598	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48599	Here's my colleague Martic, we've heard about the budget of everything. Yesterday, even if he was unnatural and today you said that he was overstretched because we made a promise to the retired, the defenders and the births. Well, that's not true. They all got comfortable in the budget because we came from them, because we keep our promises. Your government's budgets had budgets of daughters, I guess, brothers, sisters, ministers' budgets, so budgets outside the budget, but unfortunately it all came down to the expenditure part of the budget that now pays both pensioners, and defenders, and births.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48600	Thank you. Correction of Mr. Krono Peronja's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48601	My colleague pointed out incorrectly that this is not a developmental budget and that it is not social. In fact, the proposed budget also shows that it is balanced because it plans to reduce the deficit to 3.3%, which means that the deficit will be even 3% less than three years ago in the following year. Of course, total annual growth is projected at 6.4% and is also clearly seen where the emphasis is and this is precisely on an increased active employment policy where 150 million kuna is. Of course, it is also important to highlight a 15 million kuna increase to encourage employment. All this says that this is a balanced budget, developed and that there is certainly a future far happier than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48602	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48603	Thank you very much. In her reading of the report, a colleague said that this budget does not give sufficient thought to those who demining. This is of course not true because in this budget the Croatian Mine Action Centre has 21 million kunas more than last year, which means 11% more, not counting naturally donor conferences from abroad. So there is a higher budget for the Croatian Mine Action Centre than there is an increase in the total budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48604	We have a replica of Mr. representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48605	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Jagoda Martic was reading and studying some of the statistics she was talking about, apparently looking only with her left eye. What's this about? It is true that the growth of gross social product in 1999 was a negative 0.9% and the following year it was raised. At the same time, however, the unemployment rate in the last ten years was the largest in 2002 and 2003 and the number of employees was higher in 1999 than in 2000 and this is the result of bankruptcy policies. And I'd like you to explain to me in some way how that growth of the gross social product of 5.2, 4.8 you've had has also resulted in the highest unemployment in the last ten years. So I'd like your comment on this, and it's a segment that I'd like you to explain when it comes to the successes of the former government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48606	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jagoda's reply, Mrs. Jagoda Martic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You're right to say, of course, that numbers and statistics are a concept that you can deal with in one way or another. So some things try to beautify themselves or try to appear in the worse light. The fact is that the past government has really driven the economy and the fact is that as you yourself said from this negative growth of GDP, we have made an extremely large leap, and also this government that is constantly boasting that it is moving Croatia as we have heard before is actually stagnating the economy. And as for the unemployed for a long time, more months, unemployment has been growing. Now we've crossed over 300 thousand unemployed, and I repeat again. This is the third year or third budget that this government brings. So this has already been quite a while so that some indications of Croatia's further development can be read from this budget. But at best, I haven't seen these clues, and I think it's really about time that it stopped justifying some of the former government's moves. It's been a long time, so the former government, if she did something like you said what made it difficult for this government, I think it's already been long enough that this government could have stood on its feet like that, and besides, one more sentence to say, even though you didn't mention it. I wasn't talking about the Mine Action Centre at all. I was talking about the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48608	Thank you very much. And I'm informing the MPs that it's still shrinking, so the trend is to reduce corrections and replicas. Let's say Mr. Hebrang 8, Mrs. March 5, and hopefully we'll go that way. Here's a word from Mr. Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48609	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Here's almost after 20 hours of discussion about this budget I'd try to talk about it in a different way. In a way that is much more related to analyticals, methodology, the breakdown of this budget is the development of analytical methods today is very important in order to make the budget more comprehensive. The budget that contains not thousands but almost tens of thousands of items and their interlink, their interdependence, are all things of analysis that are very important because of what I said more complete and quality and more comprehensive understanding, but also making better decisions. The National Budget Analyst is particularly important, especially complex and today's Croatian Government headed by the Minister, the Ministry of Finance pays special attention to the development of new analytical tools in analysis and calculations The budget will be calculated to make this debate as high as possible, more comprehensive and objective as possible. In order to reduce the number of improvisations and arbitrary interpretations when it comes to such an important basic document of each country. Analytical methods enable new knowledge and therefore I think that they are very important today especially when we speak in the context of the recent negotiations so-called. "bench mark tests" that are related to all those chapters that the Republic of Croatia will negotiate then these different "bench mark tests" can also be a new component to which our Budget will present itself already next year. Whether it is balanced or not, unbalanced, to what extent it is social, to what extent it is developed, such an analyst provides quick and simple, reliable and valuable answers. The very quick use of such new analytical tools is possible to look at what the total sum of all social separations is to be normed to all the overall separations that are focused on development. This in some ways shows the character of this Budget and its balance, its orientation and so on. What is particularly important and I want to stress here is about analysis and quality analysis of investment programmes and projects because it is almost 18 billion kuna. We don't care what the evaluations, judgments and quality analysis of all these programmes and projects look like because investments are limited. It would be very good if we were bigger, but what's most important is that they are quality and efficient. And such new analytical support enables, in particular, to be seen in the context of such programmes and projects by multi-criteral programming which are components of new value added, which particularly highlight programmes and projects as developmental. This is very important to see in all these programmes and projects that characterize the new value of knowledge, new technologies, research and development. If we had such opportunities, we could in any case improve and significantly improve the investment policy of our programmes and give a focus to those programmes where science, new technologies give special added value, and eventually through such technology and methodology we can also install into the evaluation of the programme all those criteria and recommendations that we have talked about here and in some other places very often. Furthermore, the efficiency of the programmes and projects is linked to investments, it is related to the scope of investments. It is related to the amount of funds, but what is very important is further related to the quality of knowledge, skills, organisation and quality of management of people who manage these limited state resources. Therefore, the efficiency of programmes and projects and the entire State budget is practically a product of the amount of resources available multiplied by knowledge, skills, the quality of all those using these limited state resources. Furthermore, certainly when we talk about the analysis of our budget, then I think it would be very important to do a more detailed analysis showing all those budget items that are due to war damage and aggression in the Republic of Croatia. We forget very often today, and to a limited extent, we point out that many of our investments, that many of our wishes cannot be achieved unfortunately because we are forced to compensate, invest in everything that has been fought in Croatia. Economy, people, cities and so on. I think that such a comprehensive analysis will certainly be useful to understand more fully what we have to, we can, where it is most qualitative, invest most effectively but also understand objective restrictions of isolation for the defenders and for all those who have been killed in the Homeland War. Therefore, it is another aspect of the debate that we had yesterday and today, but I think it is also especially important to highlight one aspect of the state budget that is much more highlighted abroad, but not so much in Croatia, is related to inter-resorial, i.e. cooperation between individual ministries on joint programmes and projects. This is very important because this link and ultimately the focus of the financial resources used on such projects gives the specific value and energy to be sought. For example, a very simple but important example is related to border security problems, so-called Border security is one of the key passages that the Republic of Croatia will have to discuss about its entry into the European Union. I spoke to parliamentarians from Bulgaria and Romania the other day. The main obstacle to their recent entry into the European Union is insufficient quality solutions that they protect and can defend common space, insufficient investment in border police, in people, technologies, equipment, investments that move and several billion dollars. Unfortunately, very often, some border security issues, especially those related to the sea, are co-opted equally, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance and other ministries and can be seen by more careful analysis that there are very often investments in very similar technical or technological systems and equipment. And one such analysis will allow these funds to be used more and more fully. Certainly I was going to talk about some other aspects of the budget, especially those relating to the Ministry of Defence, given the shortness of time. I just want to say very briefly and clearly, today's budget, the defence ministry of 1.76% of the estimated GDP, is in line with the budget allocations for the defence that other NATO states have. I'll just list some of the numbers that prove it from NATO's latest statistics where it is, for example. The Czech Republic has 1.88, Latvia 1.75, Lithuania 1.37, then Slovakia 1.83, Slovenia 1.62, etc. Therefore, due to the shortness of time, I will not deal with more detailed analysis of this part of the budget but I will conclude that it makes very sense to continue to work on improving the analysis and development of modern tools, because today we often talk about a knowledge-based society. This knowledge of science and technology certainly makes sense to use all these tools to improve our discussions by the year in that sense, when we talk about the budget, to be more quality, more comprehensive, more fully, I would say far-sighted. And with everything the Ministry of Finance has done so far, I believe that by the year we will have a much more interesting, more reasoned, more objective debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48610	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48611	Well, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Cosic said this was an important basic document of this state, with thousands or tens of thousands of items that were done very analyticalally second time. And he also mentioned that big investments are planned. So I just have to say from this argument of the state budget and the financial plans of the extra budget users for 2006 and the projections for 2007 and 2008, let's say for the investments there is one finding. He said, due to the high base in the previous period, a significant contribution from the construction sector could not be expected to be made to the growth of gross domestic product. And on the other hand you know there's a lot of talk here today, so the deficit mentions... I have to say something, and what I'm about to say, I don't know why it's... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I don't know who it's supposed to be for, but I have to say, the question is how much the ruling structure knows what the deficit is. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I'll read it to you. On page 29 of this same argument that I mentioned, under the term "Croatian Water" the last sentence reads: "The planned revenues shown are greater than planned expenditures. This will produce a deficit that Croatia's water plans to borrow from business banks.". I've never read it before, nor know how to explain it. That's some new definition of deficits where incomes are higher than expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48612	Thank you. Answer Mr. Kresimi Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48613	Well, unfortunately, I have to answer with the conclusion that everything that's been said almost has nothing to do with what I've been saying. Well, at the end of the day, there's a question of deficit interpretation. Therefore, I think it is perfectly consistent with that finding, the diagnosis of President-in-Office of the Parliament that, unfortunately, replicas are used for other purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48614	Replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48615	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ćosic, I appreciate that you have been using new analytical tools. But look at what we're different about. No one argues that you have established with new tools how we will invest 15 or 16 or 18 billion kunas in capital projects. That's not controversial. However, what we are saying in the opposition, give this idea of investing only in the infrastructure to convert into capital investments that will follow agriculture, industry, tourism and move that development rate from 4 to 6.7% and thus move the industry at the rate of development to, between 10 and 15%. This doesn't increase employment when we invest in infrastructure, there's no new knowledge, we don't increase exports. Conversely, we generate imports. It's known that we generate imports with it. If you are committed to supporting knowledge, then we are about to secure a growth rate of 7 or 8%, based on exports and where it will be incorporated into this export product domestic knowledge. Unfortunately, we in this export product build on domestic resources, natural resources, build on tradition, and there is no new knowledge. Our requirement is to change the budgetary policy, including economic policy, for the third time we are discussing the budget, it is high time we try to think differently, if we think Croatia should go in the same direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48616	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48617	Well, here, I'll answer very briefly. I listened to this replica of yours and the previous exhibitions in which you emphasized high rates of growth. It is not a matter of desire, it is a matter of ability and understanding of the complexity and dependence of the final output product on knowledge, technology, organisation, management, efficiency that should be integrated into this product. If you had listened carefully to the first part of my presentation then that was exactly what it was about to select from those 15 billion kunas that were more resourceful to invest in a more high-quality parchment than those programs and projects that have such characteristics and performances and that can then lead to higher separation rates. But that's what you need to understand. It's not enough to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48618	Thank you very much. We're moving on, we're moving on. It's Mr. Agent Anton Perusko's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. These days, especially yesterday in this House of Higher Education, are presenting a proposal for the State budget for 2006. The government is trying to explain to us the representatives and the entire Croatian public that we have before us a proposal for a state budget that is both developed and at the same time social. No one happier than me that it is, not because of this government, but not because of HDZ, not because of the SDP, but because of the citizens of Croatia who, after being poored in the war and especially in the process of conversion and privatisation, are expected and wanted by the process of Croatia, and have the right to a better life already today. But I am convinced that this budget is neither developed nor social but is only a mask for future rebalancing, and I want to say that since I come from Istria, there is nothing good about Istria that I will say a few words about later. This proposal for a state budget is addressed in a parliamentary procedure without social dialogue because, as is known, the GSV conversation has not been held. The announcement of talks with social partners next Monday is a post-festum. After the budget is as it is, and we know from the experience that amendments can't change anything, then it's illusory to talk about the social budget, even for formal reasons, without social dialogue. The budget, as I said, was not discussed with the social partners, but it was certainly discussed at a closed HDZ meeting, which I think is fine and I do not dispute that right for the majority party, but before and after, it was traded and that is what bothers me. Until the last moment, trade was so much so that even the reasons for the budget had not been adjusted in the trade of the commitments undertaken. How social this budget is, in fact, going to be broken on the back of the powerless, is seen from a statement by the Minister of Health who, in the context of the health reform, is all this reform that is being offered, announces new user participations in all health services, which in particular this day has further aroused the spirits among the pensioners and the poor category of our citizens. The government proposes a budget that is 8.7% higher than last year and is based on a target GDP increase of 4% and a lack of revenue over expenditures equivalent to 3.3% of the budget planned to be covered by the revenues of the Ina and HT privatisation final. But I wonder how our country will cover the budget gaps when it sells all the more high-quality state stakes. As a result, budget deficits will be filled in in the coming years when we sell the rest of the state stakes to foreigners. Whether natural resources or marine well - being, islands, or what to cover, may come into order at that time. I am afraid that this budget is only according to the size of the HDZ, the IMF, foreign bankers who are the majority owners of the Croatian financial system and who will be allowed to take over the Croatian market together with the Union's networked large companies, and until then we sit down, we are not preparing for structural adjustments. The fact is that we do not have programmes, that there is no restructuring, that we are not preparing for European standards, and Europe is certainly controlling us. And then when the stop-pani comes, it'll be Europe again, not us, and then we'll be surprised at the citizens of Eurosepticism instead of getting ready for that adjustment. In this context, I would like to say a few words about subsidies and support. Subsidy and support in the objectives of fiscal policy has been indicated to reduce by 2008, but without a clear response, for example, to shipbuilding and agriculture, and in particular to fisheries as a significant activity in the production of healthy food. For example, 70 million kuna is foreseen for long-term plantations. What that means for the traditional coastal olive culture where we had the early 30 million trees in the last century and today all between 3 and 4 million. It is about significant activities that they have within them and a large social component through the fact that a large number of people such as shipbuilding have been employed and which has traditionally been subsidized for decades. It is clear to me that under the pressure of Europe, it will need to go towards a reduction in subsidies even faster, but I am asking the question of what we are doing in the meantime that this significant sector is working. In this segment, change is possible in the long term, and the reduction will certainly be sought quickly. There are no restructuring programmes, and there are no successful ones in the budget for both shipbuilding and fishing sites. Here I find out the other day that the programme for the rehabilitation and restructuring of Croatian shipyards, where the Ministry of Economy worked for a year, will not be referred to the government this year because it has been well considered as a common approach to recovery and restructuring. It is certain, it is almost certain that, unfortunately, the shipbuilding negotiations will begin before the restructuring begins, and again it will be someone else's fault, it will be Europe's fault. We in Istria used to say that when... The rainy cold is all over Istria. [[You don't understand.]] I am afraid that Croatian shipbuilding will sneeze and the whole of Croatia will catch cold, because this adjustment will not be welcomed ready. What about the Croatian fishing boat? We're talking about a foreign fishing fleet in a protected eco-fishing belt. So, of course, it will be there, because there is no Croatian fishing boat, we have neither engine power nor we have the marine capabilities of ships that can fish in that "serp" and now that you see the projection, the definitive draft budget when it comes to the construction of a Croatian fishing boat, the results are devastating. And I am learning by reading the budget that 35 million kuna is foreseen for the Croatian Coast Guard, which is a completely insignificant amount compared to what we want to achieve if we really want Croatia as a maritime country to have the right coast guard and what is more surprising to me, I find that it is classified as part of the Navy. For Croatian Adriatic as one destination, the prestigious nautical destination is completely inappropriate. Totally inappropriate. The warship and control of nautical tourism is incompatible and therefore I will suggest that these funds from the Ministry of Defence, or the Navy, be given to civilian structures. And in the end, because I see time running out. I don't mind that for capital investment in Istria from this budget, it's meant to be 27.2 million kuna. I am for all Croatian community There is no antagonism between the Croatian regions. I am aware of the fact that Istra defended herself in Vukovar, not in Kanfanar, and there must be even development and we must have this unity and I am not against it. I don't mind you saying that it's over a billion-and-a-half tax returns 27 million, and I'm bothered by something else. I am disturbed by the fact that 92% of all tax revenues are poured into the budget of the City of Zagreb, and that only 4% remains for all, almost 550 units of local and regional self-government. And that is the key problem, not the creation of antagonism between Croatian regions, which I especially do not want, but it bothers me when certain requirements are achieved by buying hands. What does it mean I was supposed to secure from Istria 6, 7 hands, so that, if you'll excuse my expression, I'll do something for Istria? No, I don't think that's a good policy, and from what I've said, I won't be able to vote for this draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48620	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48621	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Peru said a syntagma that we heard on several occasions tonight, which was that when the 2006 budget was adopted, it was traded. That's just not true. He probably alluded to the support that certain political parties will provide that are also outside the coalition as well as parliamentary deputies, but that only speaks of the quality of this budget. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, I will repeat what I already said yesterday on several occasions, leads a policy of even development of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm surprised that you are now asking the question of where the 3.3% of the government budget deficit will come back from. And you didn't wonder, you were in the Parliament, where the 6.2 deficits of the state budget that you had in 2002 will come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48622	Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48623	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I've got a couple of things to hold back from this budget proposal. Of course I can't list them all, I'm just going to mention some of which I consider to be the most significant or at this point for the Republic of Croatia have special significance. The first question is its nominal statement in relation to the real value. The fact is that when an inflation rate is rejected from the growth rate, that real value is actually quite different than it is nominally shown. The same situation is also related to the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia shown in relation to the GDP in Croatian counties... in the Republic of Croatia by head of the population, if you take a drop in the dollar in 2004 and 2005. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We practically like the country in what the findings of the Chamber of Commerce show are stagnating. Because we don't actually have growth and development and we don't get 2.3 kunas on the invested kuna. Now the second segment that is particularly important in this respect is actually the issue of the development of the Republic of Croatia by its natural historical units, by its regions, by our counties. And what we particularly want to point out, we cannot be satisfied with such an unequal, unequal and unfounded development of the Republic of Croatia and the budget of the Republic of Croatia at this time would have to give more resources, find opportunities to ensure more uniform and equal development of the Republic of Croatia than it has so far. Not only because it is necessary to actually create certain antagonisms and even tensions within the Republic of Croatia, but among other things, to create an appropriate prerequisite to be economically and socially, and human after all, and to put natural resources into operation as soon as possible for the development of the whole and for the development of its parts. I have to indicate here especially the next situation, let me point that out in the county. According to the 2004 data from the City of Zagreb, which had 23 thousand and 361 dollars per capita, we have come to the situation that all other counties, and the best compared to the City of Zagreb is Istria County with 9 and a half, with lags of 2 and a half times. Then Zagrebačka 4 and a half times lags behind. Puta, I'm not talking about percentages. Krapina-Zagorska 7 times, Sisak-Moslavina 9 times, Karlovačka 4 and a half times, Varazdinska 4.3 times, Koprivnica-križevnica 4,3, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska 7, Primorje-Gorskiska 3 and by road, Ličko-Senjska 12 times, Virovitic-Podravska 10 times, Požečko-Slavonska 9 times, Brod-Posaviska 11 times, Zadar 6 times, Osijek-Baranja 7 times, Sibenik-Kninska lagsalna is almost 10 times, Vukovar-Srijemska 12 times, Split-Dalmatia 5.8 times and of course Dubrovnik-Neretvaska lag 6, slightly less than 6 times, while Međimurska 5 and half times. And we also have a situation that the entire Republic of Croatia is lagging behind more than 3 times compared to its average in relation to the Republic. There is no problem here in the City of Zagreb, not to be misunderstood. In fact, our goal must be to get all parts of the Republic of Croatia to the City of Zagreb as soon as possible and to be equally legally developed, etc. The problem here is that the central government in its economic policy must cover the dimension of regional development in order to ensure overall growth and development and one of the instruments of the Republic of Croatia, one of the instruments of such regional development must be the state budget. Unfortunately, still in situations like this where we are. It is particularly devastating if the natural and historical area of the Republic of Croatia, called Slavonia and Baranja, is taken. I must tell you that of those six counties that are characterized there or which cover the most the area. It is Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, Virovitičko-Podravska, Požeško-Slavonska, Brodsko-Posaviska, Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County, that these counties lag 7 to 12 times in development compared to the City of Zagreb. In such a situation, the question of what is and to what extent is this budget with financial resources and other instruments of budgetary economic policy now raises itself to function in this area of economic growth and development. At the end of the line to ensure not only regional development but also the development of the comparative advantages of this area for the development of the overall Republic of Croatia. When we look at it from that point of view, the question arises. For example, how much funds are provided to put into operation the agricultural and food system, to place it in the function of the water industry, to put it in the function of forestry and wood processing industry and of course the food industry. When we look at it from that point of view, we come up with devastating results once. Nor is it provided enough for irrigation to actually be as high-quality as possible and better at the purpose of exploiting agricultural land and, of course, agricultural resources. And even not enough funds are provided for the exploitation and realization of agricultural land, regardless of the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture that have tried to fight for certain things. Then, the issue of funding for the management of the channel network that is very important for the establishment of the agricultural and food system. Then there's the question of processing capacity. In fact, where are the funds that will put into operation not only conquering new productions and new technologies in the agricultural and food industry. For example, just take the corn. We have only a few products that we produce as products of broad consumption in the food industry, and you know that there are more than four hundred types of such products in the world. Actually, what are we doing? Whether we are able to produce our semi-products and raw materials that we get from warfare, fruit growing, livestock production, viticulture, etc., put in such a function as to create new jobs, employ new capacities and create conditions. This budget does not provide answers to such questions. Of course, it does not give any answers on how to put and provide transport infrastructure that will connect more quality areas with certain parts of the Republic of Croatia from European and world markets. Take, for example, information relating to the development of river ports and river transport. From the question of the port of Osijek, Vukovar, Sisak, Slavonski Brod. To the question, I don't know, air traffic related to Klisa Airport, or it's a matter of rebuilding railways and railways, etc. Because when we look at all these aspects together, we must not forget one important fact. It's not just about restoring traffic routes, like, when it comes to railways, but at the same time hiring the capacities of industry that will create jobs and hire people who already work in these capacities and create jobs for that area where finally human resources will be put into operation. We come to a very serious situation to ask ourselves a very responsible question. Can we continue with this development that does not take into account the regional specificities and needs of the Republic of Croatia? I'm warning all of us it's not good. It's not good for a simple reason, because eventually regional policy will also be through so-called. the statistical though the region also feels in joining, in the accession and membership process, when joining the European Union. What are we going in with, or some of our regions? Fortunately, the City of Zagreb will enter well, but how Slavonia and Baranja will enter Lika, how the Dalmatian hinterland will enter, etc.? We must put on these issues and know to give answers because of us, because of the future of this country and this budget in this respect is absolutely missing, it has not been completed, it is not enough to be careful to put into service the basic potentials. He's just partially opening up... He's opening up new jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Take a further situation that's also very interesting. We have a situation to plan 465 million kuna funds that we will withdraw from the European Union funds for the economic growth of development and regulation of certain issues. At the same time, do we have to provide six hundred million for the projects? Which we do not have, people we have not put into office of these projects, and this is, at least, linked to the institutions and persons of the European Union who should work on these projects. Therefore, we are coming into a situation in fact that one part of us is very questionable and hangs in such a situation we feel it is necessary to take and submit several amendments that would actually further improve this situation in that segment where it is not yet sufficiently defined or in that segment where the issue is open that, for example, additional employment. For example, when it comes to business zones and technical and technological parks that should... to separate and develop especially in areas where we haven't had such opportunities yet, and in that, above all, in Slavonia and Baranja, it's Lika, i.e. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Dalmatian hinterland. We have to understand that, we have to tell ourselves in that part and that we are not enough that we fellow MPs from the fifth constituency will prepare a few dozen such amendments, put into office regardless of whether they pass or not. It is our task, among other things, to point out the fact and phenomenon that is present in order to actually create economic policy, including development policy, and I think the time has come to seriously open the debate in the Republic of Croatia on the economic development strategy of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the development of certain parts of Croatia and in this context of a particularly economic policy that should be separated. Because what happens is you know that, on the one hand, when we present the Government to Parliament, we show one program, that when we approach the International Monetary Fund with another programme, and when we prepare the budget ourselves, then it is actually an attempt to meet the needs and desires, not the development components and not the bearer of growth and development, this is simply not good for us, and whatever government will be in power will not be well, because it will not meet the needs of the future that are necessary for us and, in fact, a future that must give certainty to the position of our children and our generations that will come behind us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48624	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48625	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the budget doesn't take care of regional equality, I haven't heard correctly, something mostly in that style. Well, it's incomprehensible to me. Here's a few examples. Expensive procedures, road heading towards Sisak, road heading towards Osijek, road heading towards Dubrovnik, first two ends were killed in the Homeland War, the second one should connect and make some real whole, the only thing I don't know is what the gentleman means when he says the region.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48626	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48627	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna try to be as short as possible since I've reported in a lot of times and this has been going on for a long time. I'd say why I'm against this budget. Most people in Croatia today live worse than they did before, and indeed there was controversy with them, not with us. Since I personally don't see anything going to change better with this budget, he's not an instrument of development but something else I'm against. There's a lot of people buying cars, going skiing, even having cell phones, home having packers, TVs, vacuum cleaners, irons. We've really come to think of it as a luxury to live normally, and has anyone thought about those who can't pay back the loans for those cars that they took on credit, on leesing, so every day on TV, we have a chance to watch these people who have been thrown on a beggar stick. That's why I think it's a kind of cynicism to talk about their situation like that. The second why I've, I've said it many times in these two days, because you in... and the island development and development of the Adriatic islands decreases compared to the past budget of 60 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I won't even mention how much the islands were spoken of by the primordial, touristic, postcardic because most islands experience on postcards, how beautiful it is, see the beautiful sun, palm trees and other wonders. Go to the islands now, and you'll see how it is. You see on TV how she yells that storm, so just cut them down for that 60 million kuna development, I think it's hard to explain it to anyone. The next reason I'm against this budget is the social system that you talk about a lot, but listen to 3 items, protection of military and civil disability wars, rights and welfare systems, compensation for assistance and care compared to the last budget of 84 million less. It's a clear sign to me that I can't support such a budget. We've heard about health care a lot, but you can also open today's daily newspaper, so see what it looks like to be preparing and some manifestations that would express dissatisfaction with the situation of citizens in relation to health. It seems to me that this is enough reasons for me not to support this budget, and in the end I would just repeat, given all the discussions that were carried by the political idological, party and I don't know what other tone in the budget talks that the budget wasn't a train leaving Zagreb, so it goes from the station to the station across Croatia, so depending on the will of the driver it stops or doesn't fit on some station, goes on or on this or that railway, and you're standing on the stations and he didn't stop, they didn't come out, they didn't bring gifts, and you think why he didn't stop? What am I supposed to do to make him stop? Then we come to that sad story that we were talking about today that we don't talk in figures all kinds of style and there's no Kramarić who imagined this to be a sonnet garland, so I say the numbers are being called imagine. So, the songbook is not one document, this is the most significant debate in a year, and it's good that we disagree, well that we talk from different positions, it's good that we fight if we have to, it's not good that we're only insulting ourselves. So I think that it is necessary to exclude from that volunteerism and volunteerism that he must look at the integrity of Croatia, that he cannot talk about the budget as something that will stop or not fit in your area, and you will now return home as I will come somewhere to Dalmatia, because I am from there and he will tell me you did not manage to fight there. How can a man fight that if not by reason, by argument? It seems the least of it. That's what we'll see when we talk about the amendments. And here's really for last. This morning when I was driving my car towards the Parliament, I listened to the show at 7.30 on Croatian Radio on the 1st program where the citizens spoke about the budget. One citizen said like this: "You know what the budget is?", he said the same in a picturesque way, "You travel to Ljubljana from Zagreb. You can do it through China. You can go through Morocco, but it would be the smartest, most rational to go over Bregana because it's the fastest, because it's the closest and it calls for common sense." Now, by calling for common sense, I end up and I think these arguments that are my arguments are enough not to be for this budget because it lacks reason, of this kind of reason, no offense.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48628	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48629	Here, during the debate on the draft budget, a colleague has already stated several times yesterday that the islands received 60 million less than they had received in the previous period, which is incorrect data. If you see how much they received in 2004 or 2005, it is by island division, the island administration of the 26 million kuna. However, this information should be read for a reason because other divisions, other ministries, complement their direct programmes and amount to more than this island's development places 1509. Namely, the reason why this difference is stated in the management of island development is because only on the basis of accurate project documentation, on the basis of a building permit can be granted funds and only one concrete development that projects of disposal without Croatian waters are foreseen a total of 50 million kuna, water supply also without Croatian waters, school small and large.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48630	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48631	Here, counterpart Jurjevic incorrectly states that colleagues think that if you live normally, it means that people have washing machines, irons, cars, and specifically mentions that people are taking cars because they can't pay off. A colleague of Jurjevic, 94% of the carjacked are high and slightly higher-class cars. So, not those who serve or don't know the poor serve to go to work. But what's the problem here is what you're proving, people are skiing, people are driving cars, people are making phone calls, but everything's coming out of a kilo of heartburn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48632	Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48633	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Jurjevic made one claim, I would say a populist claim that is not true, which is which reads "Most people live worse today than before.". So I wouldn't say it wasn't true, but I will back it up with some facts, which is that the social gross product in 2000 was per capital in Croatia 4000 and 152 dollars, and in 2004, it was 7000 732, that the average salary in 2001 was 3 thousand 541 kuna and in 2004, 4 thousand and 173 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48634	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48635	Well, I'd agree with my colleague Jurevic who apostrophe of the public health problem, but to me, it may not seem as pronounced and not as sufficiently as this problem deserves. I'd say public health has actually been debacled with its budget. Namely, the prevention of alcoholism in young kunas, the treatment and rehabilitation of zero kuna alcoholics, the program of humanization of hospital treatment for women and children only 30 thousand kunas, the preservation and improvement of female reproductive health, you can think of 65 thousand only kunas, the prevention of early detection of breast cancer in women only 250 thousand kunas, the prevention of infectious diseases only 90 thousand kunas. We need to know that the rise in TBC is a disease of poor countries, in Croatia it is on a rapid rise. That's what we're going to single out just 50,000 kunas for this year. We had two great programs to promote healthy nutrition and movement, which is very important in the prevention of zero kuna, we had a great campaign and even this government that was saying our kindness is the beginning of every zero kuna treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48636	Reply to the replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48637	I didn't want to call the unions and their announcements that if it didn't stay, it would stop. Health reform that will go to the streets because no one wants to be a test rabbit and especially not if you're a human being, especially in the field of health. We often deal with naked survival in the sphere of health, Mr. Markovanovic, and not just in this sphere of everyday life. 'Cause you know there's a lot of those 30 kunas I can't spare for those checks or 30 kunas for directions. If you do it as a representative or head of a city.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48638	And you're replicating Mrs. Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48639	Yeah, her, I'm just looking, I'm having trouble with my eyes. Then there's been a lot of talk about someone. /The noise in the hall. You're stealing from me right now. This is about, therefore, that neither we as representatives nor as mayors of municipalities or mayors of cities have the right to not see what every average citizen sees and the purchasing power of Croatian citizens is worse dear gentlemen in relative relations than before and is not easy for them, especially when we bid with him for cheap political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48640	Thank you. The same replica of the respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48641	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Jurjevic, you mentioned the beauty of Croatian islands in your presentation and stressed the exceptional concern of the Croatian Government for these islands. In this context I replicate to you and remind you of a fact which is here today specifically on my home island Rab, Rab is today cut off from land. And I would like those who think about islands to come live today on Rab Island. Today Rab is cut off because of the hurricane storm, after which will come a big chair, it will be a few days without electricity. Islands should not be seen as places to spend a romantic vacation. The islands should be helped in winter. In the summer we have everything too. And as far as Mr. Jurjević is concerned about Croatian islands, there is a reduction in incentives for the construction of Croatian ships in Croatian shipyards by 20 million kunas, investments for port infrastructure are reduced by 50%, funds for island development are reduced for a total of 26 million kunas, funds for subsidising tourism transport are reduced 33 million kuna. Well, that's the concern, Mr. Jurovic, of this government about Croatian islands. Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48642	Did you get it? Yes, it is. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48643	Comrade Antesic, you forgot to say that they even reduced the money compared to last year intended for sea-cleaning ships. It took away 200 thousand kuna. They say it's too clean. Me, there are islanders here, and here's my colleague Peronja is an islander and so on. They certainly know best how to live there. I'm sure you'd all like to live better everywhere. But my initial thesis that keeps everyone living worse then these islands live 30% worse. Because it's getting so much more expensive there and it's harder to live there in general. And he also told counterpart Tadic not to go back to those discussions to solve all those problems on the islands about the transportation of children to school and so on and this and that. So when I said to him, "You will not vote for such a budget that will not be given to you," then the cha went away, she never returned. I am merely warning that there may have been too many political compromises, and too little common understanding for those who have decided on this budget. We're not. We're trying to point out that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the next week when we talk about amendments, you have respect for reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48644	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48645	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, members of the government. For two days now, we've been discussing the 2006 Budget Proposal, and I keep remembering the performance of our prime minister from last year when he represented this year's budget. He acted confidently and in summer, saying that the budget ahead of us was both developed and social, and we adopted him. To then introduce administrative taxes in health care, reduce incentives for the housing of young people, change the formula for harmonising pensions and a number of other firefighting measures. Yesterday, our prime minister here made the impression that he was actually trying to convince more of himself than we and the public that the budget that we are now talking about is both developmental, social, balanced, transparent and ambitious. The only difference from this year's budget is this highlighted ambition. If ambition is to patch up the holes and it will be realized by this budget. If ambition is the development of Croatia, then I'm afraid it won't. If this Budget were ambitious, developmental, social, balanced and transparent then it would not be discussed in the Varazdin Warms but with the social partners because we would have something to brag about if this Budget was really so good then it was an opportunity to get the support of social partners, to achieve consensus and to really have something new and valuable ahead of us. But I'm afraid that's not the case. A lot of literature was mentioned here today, and Mr. Herman said yesterday that this budget could be seen as a literary work. The phone book was also mentioned today. But I think it's even true that it can act, look at it as a literary work because it can actually read out from this budget who is in HDZ and among coalition partners? How much weight does it count for millions of kunas? And after all that talk about Osijek and trade, I have to say that I don't really care if Osijek gets something or not? The problem is not that there is no balanced development of regions but, unfortunately, I'm afraid there is actually no development. And that's not even the new budget he's offering. This whole budget story and literature reminds me of something else. On the fairy tale of the Emperor's new tulip. And we all know that in that fairy tale, there's talk of how citizens were asked to prove their senses, ability, and similarity to admire the nonexistent king's vest. That is how we are asked to admire this Budget and accept it as developmental and social, although it is not. Gentlemen, the Emperor is naked. And it is obvious after three budgets not that there is no movement and development of Croatia but that all this budget offers is actually a tap in place. Because from this calculation it's visible what's not there? No new jobs, no jobs for 300 thousand unemployed among whom 60% are women. Does anyone care? Or it fits perfectly in with the story of how women should move out of the world of work, go back to the kitchen and give them a chance to fix the demographic image. This budget shows that there are no reforms of whole bars, there is no development, there is no more standard, there is no better life. We listened to each other today about the statistics on this one and that one. About the percentages as much or as much and in all of that, I'm afraid we've forgotten the basics. What we're talking about isn't random, it's not dry. It is something that will affect the lives of all of us, the lives of Croatian citizens. And because I claim that this budget is neither developed nor social, it doesn't result from me being a member of the SDP, so I want to reject everything that comes from the HDZ. Regardless of the arguments of this side or the other side, the left and right eye or those who are looking at it, and they read nothing of the fact is that, unfortunately, Croatia's citizens will feel very quickly by their own skin method who is telling the truth, and how advanced and social is this budget? I'm afraid if it continues like this, we won't tap in place, but we'll go back and the story of starting and developing Croatia will remain what it was from the very beginning. Sanader's fairy tale. I love fairy tales very much, but real life is something else and the facts of this story that we are offered and real life are fundamentally different. Gentlemen, today you live far more difficult than two years ago. After this calculation, I'm afraid they'll live harder than they are today. It's true. Expensive cars are being taken away. There is a luxury in this country, but not for the average citizens. For a very small part of them who don't care what our budget looks like because they don't depend on it. They will never be a social category and will never be at the mercy of this country. I'm talking about most average Croatian citizens who have to pay bills, who have to pay for transportation, who have to eat and dress, who have to train children. Who has more than one child at school has a problem. And we're going back to demographics again. How and how many children to give birth to? How do you raise them? How can children survive, not have computers, go skiing, fly? These are things that the average Croats will have to forget for a long time. And that's a fact. And we're talking about those here. Those who do not care are safe, summering, wintering, trading and untouchable. They expect us to do as much as possible to improve their lives because they fill this State budget. And they rightly expect the state to solve their problems. Every government has the task. Let him do it better, let him do it worse, but the task is common. I'm afraid when a relationship with reality is lost, when a relationship with the people is lost, then any projections can be made that will suit this option or that option, but reality will have nothing to do with it. And those ordinary little people will be able to complain, be dissatisfied and unhappy and have an opportunity once in four years to choose and maybe change their condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48646	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48647	Well, I apologize to my colleague for occasionally joining us in the game. We just saw that you're self-sufficient. Now incorrectly, it's incorrect that the emperor is naked if you're thinking about the budget, as it's incorrect that it's against the nature of what we heard from your colleagues because it's actually a dangerous combination. It is also incorrect that Prime Minister Sanader assures himself. It's a shame you weren't in the Varazdin spas, you saw, you'd see how confidently the leader of the biggest party behaves with us. And what's also here, what's also visible here, is that with constant repetition, you're convincing yourself of these untruths.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48648	And Mirjana Brnadić, the correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48649	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague said this is Sanader's fairy tale of Croatia's launch. Dear counterpart Sanader launched Croatia, Sanader reduced the budget deficit from 6.3 below the end of 2003 to 4.9 last year. According to all indicators, the government will achieve 4.2% of GDP this year. The budget projection for next year announces a reduction in the budget deficit to 3.3 gross national products. So this is the launch of Croatia, and the fairy tale you still dream.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48650	Yeah, when you say it's a fairy tale, then the answer is that it's a prose. Real novel. Real novel. Replica, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48651	Thank you, Mr. President. Fellow MPs, so, by fixing a demographic image, it's certainly not a syntagma that should be so ironic and perversely pronounced. Population policy is certainly one of the main policy definitions of a single country. And for nothing, we all develop if we don't have someone to develop it for. Secondly, what this government has done, which is that it has made it possible for women, as well as men at the end to decide whether to work, whether to stop at home with their children because they prefer it, but then to be able to raise those children at home, it has also allowed them to have a career. She gave them education and made it possible for them to have both family and work. That is exactly what this government has made possible by returning to women maternity benefits, allowing young families who decide that they would like children to be able to do so materially. Moreover, it has allowed young families to raise their children to be good and useful citizens of this society, to educate them, not necessarily to go skiing or spend money on the phone. It's certainly nice if I can afford it, but it's primarily to invest and have to be well-educated and well-educated.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48652	Replica reply, respected representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48653	My colleague Lovrin, demographic policy is very important to me, and I have actively proven it. I have three children, but as men have the right to have children and a career I don't see why women can't. And nowadays, when living this difficult is not enough just one salary to give these children a decent life, not often enough are two. And I find demographic policy without responsible parenting, without good partner relations impossible. You can't impute women who want to get out of the kitchen that they're not good mothers and don't want kids. It's just not true. It is just that family life must be organized in another way, and anything is possible with good will. And if you really want to improve demographic policy then let education really be free, let every child have a computer, let them learn another language, let them have sports activities and all that every normal child wants. Why didn't we cancel the VAT and introduce a zero rate on children's clothes and food? Well, to really show that we care and that we want something. If there's nothing else, why not the kids? And then we complain about how hypocritical we are and how we don't really care about the future of this country. But that's not true. The future of this country is in children, but in written, educated, capable children who will be able to engage in life with responsible parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48654	Order there! Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48655	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the ministries, the ladies and gentlemen. And let me, after a lot of time that we've spent on the debate to get involved with a few sentences, too. Well, as a member of the regional party club and as presidents of one regional party, the Međimurje Democratic Alliance, I will also focus most of the exposure on this issue. We have heard from the debate so far that this is both an actual and acute topic. In addition to the dimension, with the social and economic dimension, this particular topic of decentralisation, regionalisation, equal development, even development and fairer distribution of funds was a common topic in these discussions. Well, I'm also not gonna support this budget for that very reason. So, because I think this budget is centralised, that it is therefore still blocking the decentralisation process that Croatia is very much needed. So we warn of the fact that the opposite process is happening, that Croatia is moving towards further centralised rather than decentralisation. That is what the data and the distribution of budgets tell us about. We know, therefore, that most of the budget refers to the budget of the Republic of Croatia 92%, 4% goes to the budget of the City of Zagreb, which is about 5 billion. The new budget is almost 6 billion Zagreb City. And on the budgets of all the other units goes the rest of the remains, we could say about 5 billion kuna on those numerous cities, municipalities and counties that are also closing the budgets these days, but these calculations are very small. As a paradigm example, my Međimurje County, which also has a modest little budget, can serve us. This year, however, it crosses 100 million kunas. It is therefore foreseen to be achieved at an amount of 103 million kuna, but it is interesting to see this relationship between the county budget of our Međimurje and the state budget. He's right in relation, so 11,000, i.e. 1 promil. So the Međimurje County has 100 million kuna, and the state budget is almost 100 billion kuna, so the thousandth part comes into the budget of the Međimurje County. There, then, should consider some other criteria that would help balance these relationships, e.g. to be introduced as a criterion and the number of inhabitants. I told you before that the Međimurje County is participating in the budget with one prominence, only Međimurje, for example. has 2.5% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. So the disproportionate is obvious. If we were to respect, for example. This redistribution criterion would then give Međimurje 2 billion and 250 million kuna to those 2.5%. So we don't expect anything like that to happen, but we certainly expect it to happen as soon as possible in that direction. The latest changes that ensured a little more money coming from the state budget into regional and city administrations and self-government budgets were decentralised funds during the past coalition government. As I said before, these two or three years will be no change in that direction. There were some kind of announcements. There was an initiative here in the Croatian Parliament by individual parties to carry out that redistribution, these laws were rejected. For some time now, the Minister of Finance has also announced some legal initiatives to change this relationship, and we have heard today that it will only be at the end of next year, and if it will apply for, the question is whether it will apply for 2007. I don't think that's a good thing, that this opens up further tensions both in this House and in Croatia. I think it is unnecessary, and if we also want to ensure quality economic growth, I think it is important that our municipalities, cities and counties have enough budgets to activate potentials in their area, and in fact the entire of Croatia would benefit greatly. For example, the municipality as it is, the local community certainly can't do that. It can't activate its potential, it can't open some kind of small economy zone because it has a budget in 2005 of 2 million kuna. But what's worrying about it? It's worrying that her original income, her tax revenues are 500 thousand kuna. Out of these 2 million her original income is 500 thousand, half a million kuna, and she has other incomes from abroad, i.e. of entities within the general state, i.e. capital investments from the county and from the ministry. Now that's where we come into that same problem. We know by this budget that the state is the largest economic operator, the biggest investor in the Republic of Croatia which I don't think is good, but it is also the largest arbitration because it is itself, i.e. Its ministries determine where and how and by what criteria these funds will be allocated. So I don't think that's good, that we have to go to the regionalization and decentralisation process. What does that mean? This means that we give the cities, the districts, the municipalities and the authorities as well as the funds. Thus, by means of these means, through their intermediaries again, they will have indirectly those who create them, and these are citizens who will see directly where these funds are being spent and spent. The other reason I can't support this budget is to invest in my Međimurje County. In this budget, therefore, there are only five projects in this book that are therefore directly decided as projects to be invested in the Međimurje County. So it's a transfer from the Ministry of Finance that's the smallest so far. These are three projects from science, education and sports, Mala Subotica, Kotoriba, Čakovec Civil School, most of the projects that began several years ago. There's the Ministry of Health, the hospital we all look forward to finally working on this new pavilion, and there's the Regional Development Fund from which we get the smallest funding again. We will probably get support for other projects from other common items. I hope there will be as many of them as possible, and I will therefore give them support and help to make those who are better and better, but in this budget we have no information for them, I don't think it's a good thing that we as Parliamentarians actually don't know what's going to happen and what's going to happen in our area. Finally, just to present one amendment of the few I had, so I suggested that the amendment be replaced by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, i.e. increase the amount intended to boost exports that have been in the current budget so far is estimated at 7 million and 600 thousand kuna. I think he's too small. I suggest that it increase multiple to 100 million kuna, because if we want to increase exports, then we need to boost that export and especially because we have branches, our economic branches that are already exporting, where there is a lot of workers employed, here I primarily think of textile, leather, wood, which is without the help of the country so function as they operate, are struggling in the market very hard, we know why, while some other economic branches are receiving hundreds of millions of kuna support and they are installing 30 % or 40% of Croatian products with their products. So I think there should be a fairer, more even distribution of those funds, and then it should be able to reverse the deficit that we have in the balance of payments. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48656	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Ljubica Lalic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48657	Thank you, Vice President. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The budget of each country should be a fundamental indicator of where the government intends to lead the country in the coming year, that is, what citizens should hope for during that period. According to the 2004 budget, and especially for 2005 in Croatia, this is not the case. For 2005 for pre-election purposes, it needed a budget that was very promising, and by the will of the parliamentary majority, it was adopted even though the majority knew it was unrealistic. This has already been confirmed for the first semester so that we have already brought rebalancing in the summer of this year and that for budgeting and rebalancing is enough only 39 hands of representatives from a total of 152 MPs, budgets can change as they will and how many times they want to reduce not only the importance but also the seriousness of a document called the budget with a flattering epithet. Clearly, the government is aware of this, and we have a proposal that will certainly change very quickly because of its unreality. How visible for next year's budget revenues are planned by 9.8% more than last year. In my opinion, this is an unreal plan with a planned rate of GDP growth of 3.2%. So production does not increase, but it increases state revenues. This could mean either a further tax burden on citizens and the economy or a sale of Croatian assets. The increase in tax burdens cannot be tolerated either by citizens or by the economy, and the sale of national assets due to current consumption is inadmissible. It is evident that the state investment does not have or is more precisely not enough for the realization of the so many times mentioned "we will start Croatia". Listening to the explanation of the budget by Mr. Prime Minister, I wondered what sky the Croatian government is living in. Certainly not with the Croatian people, for the people say they are harder to live than last year, and last year they lived harder than before. The people do not feel the benefits of macroeconomic indicators that are so praised by this government. If the people felt that at least part of it then surely the results of a public opinion examination would be quite different. But the government lives in an air - free area intoxicated with the pleasure of favourable macroeconomic indicators and wonders why it is in the pessimistic people and why it thinks it is bad and does not hope for a better life. Living in a world of its own, the prime minister tells us that this budget will ensure economic growth and a better standard of citizens. This is as credible as pre-election promises, for example about reducing VAT rates, reducing state bureaucracy, eradicating crime and corruption, increasing pensions, etc. Promises have been made, but not in person, but in appearance, so I guess this budget will also bring about economic growth and a better standard, which is economic stagnation and a worse life for citizens. As the prime minister said, foreign investment will ensure economic growth. In my Kobash, it's said, "Trust in your beaks as well." Gentlemen from the government, for foreign investors and their courage to invest, it is necessary to create conditions for the rule of law and to combat corruption. There's no success in either one. What's more, this country is even more corrupt than it was two years ago. That's evidence. As it all points out, there will be no and no more significant foreign investment, there will be no and there will be no state investment, and there will be no economic growth. Therefore, Croatia remains the fundamental problem, which is the unemployment and insecurity of the workplace. In this existential uncertainty, the unrealistically optimistic prime minister says the budget will implement a policy of demographic renewal through child support and maternity compensation. The prime minister forgets that the height of the child's allowance has not increased for years and that for 140 kuna children are not born monthly. Responsible parenting wants clear indications of perspective both in their own families and in their families. There is no perspective without economic development. Furthermore, this budget shows that there are not so many needed reforms without which there is no progress. We heard a sleazy announced increase in pension funds. It is said that over the last 2 years, we have been increasing the number of pensioners, and by changing the formula and harmonising pensions, we are falling from the average salary paid. The coalition government left an average pension at 44.71% of the average salary, and in only 2 years it fell to only 42%, indicating that it is moving quickly and safely towards what we found in 1.1.2000, which is 35% of the average salary. So the pensioners have no reason to be optimistic about this, as the prime minister says in the development and social budget. As Slavonka, I can't look back on this budget from the aspect of my region. Already in the 2004 budget, a watering project has been announced, which is very necessary and useful in Slavonia. All of 2004 and 5 years have passed in promises, and Slavons have rejoiced in vain. We are planning funding for the 3rd year of office and the irrigation project is re-emphasised, and even the planned 16 million kunas are likely to be removed. Production in Slavonia will depend exclusively on the wonders of nature and food products will continue to be imported as clearly as possible. I'm sure the Slavs don't. Unlike other parts of the Republic of Croatia, Slavonic projects are on hold despite the fact that they are called strategic for daily political needs. No irrigation funds, no flood protection funds, small producers are excluded from the incentive system and are left with unscrupulous market laws. Incentives are reduced to 50% and unprocessed fields re-emerge. Small and medium-sized producers are turning into social cases, and the Republic of Croatia does not produce food or enough for its own purposes. If primary agricultural production is insufficient, it is unrealistic to expect the development of the food industry. Unemployed peasants, unemployed workers, unengaged natural resources is a sad picture of Slavonia. The political suite gathered to open work on corridor 5C. The acting prime minister's budget calls for Slavonia to need corridor 5C because he will employ a construction operation, he will hire carriers, but the project is worth around 120m euros. This is not one quarter of the value of any other project that is announced in just a few days and, unlike corridors, begins with realization. We are not opposed to any useful project in Croatia, but I am fiercely against the inequality of the criteria for setting priorities. It is the government's task to take care of the uniform development of the region. This government doesn't do it and not just her. Thanks to such politics, Slavonska County is at the bottom of a scale of economic development. There are the lowest average salaries paid, there are the highest unemployment rates, there are the smallest fiscal potentials, even 20 times lower than the first county on the scale. Such a policy supports the idea of regionalisation. Wasn't that a recognizable sign enough? The coalition government has set up a Regional Development Fund with the task of caring for the even development of the region. If we look at the funds that were placed through the Fund then we will see that the Slavon County was invested this year and last year, and the next one will be invested less than in 2003. In Brod-Posavina County, 4.6 million kuna is planned for regional development next year, which is 600 thousand less than in 2004, and 10 million less than in 2003. The Ship-Posavia County should probably be happy to receive 8.7 million kuna from the budget per year, which is in a million and 200 more than this year, but is still a million less than in 2003. These are only small examples of the government's relationship to Slavonia. Slavonia will not help even political trade because trade has not received anything that has not been planned before. What do you tell your Slavs? So there's also the unrealistic budget of Slavonia that has no reason to be optimistic. On the other hand, funds are planned and approved by the ministry, which has proved completely incompetent over the past two years. It has shown that it does not know how to implement programmes and projects related to strengthening the family, providing for young and old. Since they do not know how to implement projects, they do not need such funds. And finally, personally, I can't support this budget, because this budget promises...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48658	Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48659	... economic growth only from 3.8... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48660	Thank you very much. We have 5 corrections and 3 replicas. First corrections, Mr. Bekavac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The distinguished colleague claimed that the state investment is missing and that Croatia is not running which is not true. And it is true, dear colleagues, that HDZ and coalition partners are starting Croatia, and what is visible at every step of ours is beautiful. From continuing to build highways, bridges, schools, hospitals and not counting any further. And it's quite clear why you don't see it from your perspective. And you don't see it out of fear, my colleague, which, after the start of Croatia's HDZ, will long be ruled by the Croatian State for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48662	Correction, Mr. Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48663	It is incorrect that the 2005 budget was voted although I quote: "the majority knew it was unrealistic". You wonder rhetorically which sky the Croatian government lives in. He lives for your information on earth, and the evidence is among other things in co-existence and with you in opposition and in retirement has no reason to be optimistic. So what have you done in the last four years? Has there been a return of debt to the pensioners during the coalition government that you so enthusiastically mention?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48664	Correction, Mr Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48665	The distinguished representative said that the work of this government has nothing better to hope for. It is absolutely incorrect and correct for the sake of it, and for the sake of the public no longer needs to be specifically noted because I will stress this on this occasion. So one of the most important projects related to the retirement population is to repay the debt to the pensioners. Dear and distinguished MPs are precisely this government not only designed this programme and project, but it has actually done everything from regulations to all other assumptions to ensure that this debt is paid to pensioners in the coming year. And the second thing, as far as the budgets in the draft of this budget are concerned, so the government has secured for the next 2006 I really ask you to look at those items that relate to the amount of pension payments and pension coordination in terms of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48666	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48667	Well, here, I'll try to fix it quickly. Like this, says a colleague last year's budget wasn't well drawn up, so a rebalance was brought in. Well, really, I can't believe you guys don't understand the Institute of Rebalancing. Well, it's really adapting and expenditure and income over the years, but any good I think the businessman cares about it all the time. Keep going. ... Normal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The great people are pessimistic. I'll tell you here is not a pessimistic people because the HSS virus didn't move on them because the HSS is almost gone. And third, he says state corruption is bigger than three years ago. Also, construction companies couldn't get a job with you if your employees didn't get insurance with one... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48668	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48669	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Member said that revenue, as proposed in this proposal for a budget, can only be achieved through increased tax burden on citizens or the sale of state property. So that's absolutely incorrect. Here from the personal features of the state budget in the context of the Government budget proposal, one of the features of this budget is to strengthen the tax administration in order to combat the gray economy and successfully implement projects. Therefore, it will not be burdened with additional taxes on citizens, but will be processed, and this law has also adopted in this respect a series of laws on stronger and fairer and more effective collection of existing taxes, which will result in state revenues and something else. This government has proposed and plans only to partially cover the state deficit, which plans for 2006 at 3.3% by selling only minority packages of state-owned enterprises by public tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48670	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lalic reminded me of 2005 and told me the optimism of the adoption of the 2005 budget, but unfortunately and realistically and reality when we implemented that budget this year and reminded us of the rebalancing. Yeah, that's right. What did that rebalancing mean? Convigoration. After 5 months of budgeting, we suddenly sobered up and regained consciousness, so we remember making laws. So what were the laws? The Law on a Taxi to Disease, the Law on the Change of the Retired Formula, the Law on the Reduction of Subsidies for the Savings of Residential, the Law on the Change of VAT and burden on the Businessmen relating to the Return of Their Assets and, of course, the Law on Defence. Yes, after 5 months of the 2005 Budget, we changed all these laws by emergency procedure, burdened the citizens, burdened them with new burdens, and we knew that they were easier to live in, and that was the reason that after the law was implemented, we changed the budget, reduced it, adapted it to opportunities, not promises. We lived through it all in 2005, we're fresh, a few months away from it. We're still cold-blooded today with a budget of nearly 100 billion kuna. I wonder how many months it'll take to regain consciousness.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48672	Answer, Mrs. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48673	Thank you. Well, colleague Linic, obviously you and I get along very well because the rebalancing will come very quickly and the tragedy is that others are aware of it. You were well reminded of the rapid change in the law, so we remember that it was announced to the pensioners in front of the TV cameras, and when the TV cameras were shut down, we were making changes to the Pension Insurance Act and changing the formula for harmonisation and imagine this formula now conditions, i.e. leading to lower pensions compared to the average salary paid. Of course, in this House it's no problem to bring even the budget, it's no problem to bring either rebalancing, so it's not even a problem to pass the law, but it's a problem to look the truth into the eyes. The problem is not to admit statistics, not to admit that pensions are from 31.12.'99. the year from the average pension of 35.41% of the average salary of the Republic of Croatia in 31.12.2003 came to 44.71%. Why? Due to the Debt Reimbursement Act, i.e. an increase in pensions to certain categories, and to the recovery of debt to pensioners. By then, as early as 1.1.2001, Mr. Linic, a colleague of Linic's, began to return his debt to the pensioners. The problem is this Parliament doesn't want to admit it. Well, it shouldn't, but the people see it, and the people will admit it very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48674	These fierce replicas should be addressed to the one who's replicated it so fiercely, not to us. In the end, it's a little small. Yeah. Here's another replica, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48675	My colleague Lalić, you have rightly warned of the fall in standards and the increase in the number of unemployed, but perhaps it was necessary, you dropped it, and you have caused one stream of negligentness and infidelity that this is what you were saying, so I will remind you here all of us together as reported by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Center for Macro-Economic Analysis when it comes to employment and wages. In September, the trend of the decline of craft employees and free professions was restarted. On the labour market in September, there was an increase in the number of unemployed by 45.6%, and these are mostly people with working experience, and they are mostly registered from seasonal activities such as hotels and restaurants, and trade, employment in the agricultural processing industry while our accident is growing the number of employees, you can imagine where, in real estate operations. That goes left left. Further, insolvency and liquidity. Again in this, already since the ninth month has been an increasing number of companies, legal persons whose jury accounts have been blocked that fires... Also when you were talking about... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] It has to be noted that this government that likes to boast that it has solved the entire pensioner problem will pay them at the expense of 12 billion. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] The former coalition government paid 27 billion and only said it had begun to pay back the pensioners. And as far as corruption is concerned, we're here by... We're down here by nine index points. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] They didn't save us from that black number where we even found ourselves protesting our Prime Minister Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48676	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ljubica Lalic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48677	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleagues Ingrid, I can't tell you that it's not true that there's a liquidity downturn because it's accurate and that's exactly where this social uncertainty is hiding and the prime minister assures us that this budget guarantees social security. Individuality of legal persons calls into question and creates job uncertainty. People without a job can't say they have a better standard. However, we may not have to worry about it. So the prime minister said that they would implement the most innovative policy through this budget. Well, then when we read the budget's explanation, then it's here that the family ministry has divided 523 families into computers. They're families with eight and more children. It's because they missed and checked to see if they had electricity. They don't have electricity, but it doesn't matter. They don't have electricity, they can't pay for electricity, but they have my people's computers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48678	Thank you very much. And a replica of Mr. Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will replicate the closing sentence of my colleague Ljubica Lalić but also of all those who seem to me today in this House or who do not understand what relative relationships and percentages are or simply manipulate them. I believe there's been some manipulation by the government, let's just say when it comes to import and export rates we've been listening to lately that actually imports have so dropped or exports have grown so much that we've started to actually reduce the pay deficit difference. The truth is the opposite. The pay deficit is increasing no matter what relative relations change. Look, gentlemen, what it looks like on GDP. Assuming that the GDP of the old European countries is 2% and Croatia is 4% the difference between our GDP and their 23 000 euros in the first year. In the second year, that difference is 23,000 and 320 euros if we're at 4% and they're at 2%. So the difference between us and them is increasing to us. In the third year, the difference is 23,000,641 euros. The conclusion is very simple. We cannot manipulate the satisfaction of having a 4% good GDP development rate or God dearly twice the European rate. It doesn't matter. We need exactly 8.75% of GDP growth in order to equalise with Europe. Not to start arriving, but to get even. Only a 9% rate gives us an annual 30-euro reduction. I know it's not easy to do, but we don't need an ultra liberal policy, we don't need a stabilisation policy, we don't need this unbaptized economic policy that we're hearing about today. We need an original Croatian economic policy. That's what you should know to do and it's your duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48680	Thank you. Reply to the replica of Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48681	Thank you. Well, I don't know why my colleague Tomcic was replicating me because we just seem to agree. I also told my colleague Tomcic that I cannot accept this budget for the reason that it predicts economic growth at a rate of 3.8% and that this is insufficient even though this rate is double the economic growth of European countries. And why do we need a higher rate? Well, all the time we've been convinced that our imperative desire is to achieve a dream of entering the European Union. I agree, we will enter the European Union, explain ourselves to people. You will no longer go to Germany, Sweden, and I don't know where not to reach European standards. That's what you'll have in Croatia. And it is my desire for our citizens to meet European standards but these European standards that in the way and quality of life they cannot and will not achieve a 3.8% growth rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48682	Thank you very much. I ask that these replicas be tempered. Prime Minister Petar Cobankovic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48683	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Representative. Let me just say a few words about your exposure, but also about the budget, and I think there are some things I would say, I'd like to try and figure out what time it is that I have to try to explain to you and make things clear. First of all, I would like to emphasise that the Croatian government has its direction, has its own path, that it is going through once-drawn dynamics of implementing the measures and activities it has drawn and which it has set out. How? In the home field, so is the international field where thank God I think you are extremely happy and happy with it. Croatia gained candidate status and began negotiations. I think it's the interest of everyone in the state of Croatia, and I also think it says certain things in itself enough. Neither a country that has no future nor a country without perspective, nor a country where corruption prevailed, would get a chance to start negotiations to enter the society of European countries where Croatia is. And according to that, I'm not talking too much about other parts, I'm going to focus more on the corridor that I'm covering and that's the issue of agriculture, forestry, the water economy, which is thanking God quite extensively and which is ultimately required. Yes, and in this accession process it is one of the resors that will need to be submitted, I would say a great burden, which is from the very harmonisation of legislation to everything that I would have said even more importantly, which is the preparation of Croatian agriculture to structure, to prepare and that, as such, by entering the European Union, it can obtain even better results. As part of that, I'm obliged to warn you a little bit just, let's take one example where you said, it's a matter of support, a subsidy. I will say that support in this budget is foreseen at the level of the circus of 2 billion and 100 million, that support in 2003 was the order of the circus size of a billion and 600 million. Well, I think from that amount of difference, I think she speaks for herself enough. But more importantly, the more important it is when we talk about support, the more we go towards strengthening certain support models. First of all, I would like to point out that last year, by amending the Act, we strengthened the income support model which I hold as a very important model that is just going in the direction of one definitely and finally separating that part of the social support that is important for those market-oriented commercial farmers and accordingly we have increased that support to 12 thousand kunas. We have introduced a second category, and here we thank God this course and dynamics and the number of those entering this support model, the support for income is increasing year by year, thus increasing financial resources for this support model. Another very important model is investment support for capital investments. I believe that exactly what is most needed in Croatian agriculture these are investments because only with investments can change the structure but only with investments can increase production and accordingly through the model investment support here and this year they are, and now they are projected to increase 13% so that they will come in 2006 compared to 2005 when 80 million will come to the circus 90 million. I would also like to emphasise the same in the context of our need to increase the rise of long-term plantations means vineyards, orchards, olive groves not for the reason of entering the European Union but for the very fact that Croatia is disabled in these productions. We, with our areas under the vineyards due to the consequences of war, carelessness and everything like this, have come to very low branches, so that we hardly meet our own production and meet our own needs, and Croatia was once a major exporter of wine and according to this and the implementation of the programmes that we brought immediately last year after shooting the situation and after establishing strategic directions for the development of Croatian agriculture we go in this direction. We halve certain results, increase the financial resources for these purposes, and accordingly, there are also areas under vineyards and fields under the orchards, and in particular what is a very perspective of olive industry for a part of our country where there is a possibility and a significant expansion. And accordingly, here they are increasing in this, this 2006 budget predicts an increase of 10%. The next thing I would like to point out is the issue of needs and strategic definition of livestock development primarily in the function of meat and milk production. It means an increase in cattle production. Increase of pig-goose production. Here in this context, I have to stress if I'm talking about livestock farming that only in the peradarity sector do we get very good results. We have self-sufficientness, and here I would like to stress that this is one of the more well-organised sectors. When we talk about livestock, we have brought in an operational increase program, increasing livestock production raising facilities. That chain, I would say, is a bit of a rush, and that is something that moves, in any case, significantly triggers Croatian agriculture. Because the issue of cattle production or the general issue of livestock production is not just a question of cattle farming. It is also a question of plant production, it is a question of increasing the consumption of war-culture products that are built into livestock food and the like. And here's how we follow that program, increase the funding. These weeks will be at the government, we've just finished it, it's been through the process of harmonising the pig's production program and, accordingly, we're already predicting the budget for next year, some financial resources that will accompany it. And that's the way, I don't think I'm going any further, if I didn't talk about all those things, I'd say big results we're getting. This is the way to lead a particular policy, how a particular sector should be run. Let me say a few words, there's a lot of talk about external trade balances, and I'm going to limit myself to the agriculture and food sector, the sector that, when speaking as a rule, the highest association when it comes to large imports, is then the highest association to that sector. And I agree. That's where the big imports are. Large imports are largely due to market liberalisation, agreement signing and WTO entry, but the signing of an agreement with very poorly embedded protection elements. The signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and so on, but thank God, and this period is slowly going behind us by increasing production, by establishing strategic direction of development, we come to this year that we have a significant increase in exports, which is what is important. In a liberalised market, it is difficult to disrupt the traffic of goods, but it is important if we import that we also have exports. And most importantly, this is exactly the biggest increase in exports, and I said that for the first 10 months, it is 31% in the countries of the European Union where the increase in exports is over 65%, and in EU countries 15 the increase in agricultural food exports is over 80%. I would say enough talking about the future of Croatian agriculture and the future of the food industry. So that Croatia can create a product that can be placed we just need to change these relationships that we have had so far. We need to make structural changes and we need to help those productions that are deficiting and which will be the backbone and raw materials of the food industry so that they can go out on this market and place their products. I'm very sorry, I'd be as a minister extremely happy and pleased that in these programs, in these I'd say operational programs, in these strategic directions it's started before. Then it would be easier for all of us. But it's got to go sometime. Once the vineyard has to be planted, the farm has to go up once, and in this context, here we go, thank God. Let me just say a few more words, there were speeches about Slavonia and here in this context, in this context I would just say that this government primarily takes care of the even development of all Croatian counties, all Croatian regions. And according to that, since the space of Slavonian County...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48684	Finish it, Minister. It's past time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48685	It's certainly lagging behind normally that investments, projects are largely directed towards these areas. And finally, the citizens do, too. They see, the citizens finally do it on a set when they have a chance then they show it. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Well, eventually, in these last elections, they understood what was done for Slavonia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48686	Thank you. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. First is Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48687	So I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's false claim that the budget, that there's inconclusiveness in the budget. Mr. Minister, there's no misunderstanding. It's all clear. We're headed in, towards the European Union. Negotiations have begun, and we're afraid of that. We fear your success in the negotiations as they say success in negotiating with sugar export quotas. As for encouraging cattle, Mr. Secretary, something strange is happening to us. We encourage cattle, we don't buy milk. It's an incentive in these long-standing crops. Yes, Mr. Minister. It's something inherited and it's incorrect that it's not before, but you give too little money, and you don't realize what you're planning. Let's make Mr. Minister a harmony. When we encourage production, we must also secure the market. We can't encourage cattle, not buy milk. We can't encourage anything else, not take those products. Mr. Minister, we can't sacrifice sugar just because it's the most important thing right now and only competitive right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48688	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Agent Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48689	It is incorrect that he chose to say Mr. Minister that the merit of this government is to open negotiations with the European Union. It's a credit to the former government, as the prime minister said. But it is true that the great merits belong to both you and this change by 180% of the policy that you have unresponsibly led in the opposition, one autistic, one irresponsible policy when it was fought by posters, the negation of The Hague, you have not voted in favour of this agreement, etc. But what's important is what's important. You're talking about a lot of successes, and even agriculture itself, you said by saying that you've received great results, and these great results have been just since September. The increase of the unemployed right in agriculture by 3.1%, and in the processing industry. Even a representative of this insolent world... /The speaker went off, then turned it back on./... speaks really well on purpose and says turn to economic problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48690	Thank you very much. Don't make these epithets irresponsible government policy and so, you can take it a little bit easier, it'll be nicer safe to keep quiet. It's a little nicer. You know? Because I was hoping just before with those replicas that were moderate that we would take that one as a yes. Okay. We still have a correction to the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48691	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary is talking about productions, new plantations, pigs, cattle, of course we understand that. It says that Croatia can create a product that can be successfully placed, of course we understand. But, Mr. Minister, you forgot that there is a man in agriculture, except for pigs, there is a man. You know that little peasants are on their knees, you know that well. You know that the middle peasants are bowing down and you know that there's still only 12 thousand more peasants who are big, who work 100 acres of land because they have, I don't know, 500, 600 passengers, etc. They're big companies, capital companies that you gave back subsidies and incentives to when you abolished the price of one and a half million kuna. That's what the little peasants are missing today. ... Two, okay. That's what the little peasants are missing today. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Minister, I'm surprised you're a peasant and you're a peasant child, but you're creating 350,000 peasant orphans.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48692	Thank you very much. We're moving on, we're moving on. It's Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48693	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's one of the most accurate markings of this budget that it's a conservative budget, but not in terms of these ideological relations on the left-right, because it's actually not what it means for us, so often times in the world, but in the sense that this budget is more or less the same, the budget that was the previous year and the previous years. And you can't actually expect a different budget in the third year of government. What's the problem is that the conservative budget has actually been for the past two years. So in the years when it could be opened to development, the budget was also mostly social, and of course in the third year of the mandate it is difficult to expect that the budget could be a development budget. Therefore, this is a fundamental feature of that budget, that it is conservative and that this budget does not make any more or less distance compared to what it was last year. which they knew that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as far as the countries are concerned, could hardly expect any shift. There will be some small shifts for some people a little further, for some a little bit back, but essentially in terms of perspective they will all lose, because the Republic of Croatia has definitely missed the opportunity to make some more important rephoric steps in any segment. So if you just look at salaries for 200 thousand civil servants and tenants in all sectors of the country's salaries rise by 2.6%. This means that wages will not actually follow any inflation that will be next year. Therefore, there is no talking about any reforms in this regard. For the past five years, the only more serious reform in terms of reducing the state administration has happened in the Ministry of Defence when it has been cut by 15 thousand people, and everything else is just moving, moving from one form, from one organization to another, but there are no real reforms. It would be ideally, of course, that our state administration, which is massive, is reduced by one-fifty thousand people, and that, of course, wages increase by one-fifty percent if we could then have a competitor, a modern one, etc. State administration. This is, of course, leaving relationships the way they are, so civil servants a massive administration, dissatisfied with small wages, etc. and, of course, in such circumstances as economic possibilities are opened that these people will flee from the state administration, and then only those who cannot go elsewhere will remain in the state administration, so unfortunately they will be even less capable than they are today. When you look here at some other items in these individual divisions, I'll only talk about two divisions, it's agriculture and forestry. The minister's gone. He was just talking about it. ... The Minister of Agriculture and Forestry is not here, and I'm talking about the water economy, and that's, that's, that's two really important things, and even if I don't do agriculture, it's not kind of my topic in political action. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I have to mention what many have said here, which is that last year it was 63 million kuna, the next year it will be 70 million kuna according to plan, and according to the 2007 projections of 80 and 2008 90 million kuna. And we should raise about 15 thousand acres of vineyards and about 50 thousand acres of orchards and olive groves with these coins. With that money, you can raise about a thousand acres a year. Thus, by 2010, when we should enter the European Union and when we are no longer able to increase our areas for commercial purposes, we will be able to raise a total of 15,000 hectares, any orchards, any vineyards. So 10 times less than necessary. If we had ambitions and had the power to move significantly in that segment, then those assets should be 10 times higher. Not 70 million kuna for next year, but 700 million kuna if we could expect to raise some 10 thousand acres, any vineyards, any orchards, or olive groves. And equally such a situation, or of course an even worse situation is with irrigation. Two years ago, the minister said it was our strategic policy, and indeed, the very minor percentage of our agricultural area was irrigated. But in recent years, it's been ridiculous numbers of ten, 20 million kuna. This year it is 16 million kuna, as it was last year, i.e. 16 million kuna next year as it is this year. There's nothing you can do about it. Perhaps you should recommend the Minister for the next government to make good projects, not the Minister of Finance, but the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Schuker. So, at least make good irrigation projects in the Republic of Croatia so that maybe work, start working with these relatively good projects because with 16 million kunas in such a strategic area you really can't do anything, so that's probably also the rebalancing that's going to be taken down, but that's if for the next set that will lead the country at least make good projects that would be something. And something about an area that wasn't much of a speech, which is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which grows only 6.5%, so less than the total sum of inflation and growth of gross social product. Even when the budget was adopted, we heard from the minister, and the media spoke about it, as it is a huge increase, and that is exactly what the ministry is an example of a new technology in our political action. It's absolutely irrelevant what it seems to be, what's important is what's being told so the minister announces some major bombing shifts. When you look at that budget, and you see that these shifts are gone. So the minister announced a few years ago that he would ask for a billion and a half kuna more for education. He didn't get that billion kuna, I don't know if he was looking for them, but after that, nothing matters that it was written for a few days. This was also announced as a major shift, and in fact, the increase in education costs does not follow a set of inflation and the growth of gross social product. Otherwise, the Programme for Educational Sports is constantly talking about reforms. The Bologna process, external evaluation of education, national graduation, etc. When you look at the items you're supposed to wear then you see that there's really no talking about it. The salaries of those people who are actually the most underrated highly educated group in the country, rise by 2%, that means actually there's no growth in their salary will actually fall next year. It is the most undervalued group of highly educated officials and tenants, but if it had gone to the heart of some of the strong shifts in this reform part, then it would have been understandable, but unfortunately it did not happen. So the Center for the External Evaluation of Education only has 6 million kunas. Last year he was nine, so he was taken down to 2 million kuna rebalancing, so now it's a 300 percent increase. Such manipulations absolutely will not lead to any result, and the same is the situation with the Bologna process when the total funds for the implementation of the Bologna process are 7 million kuna, which is of course absolutely not enough. New jobs in the higher education system are zero percent. Therefore, wages do not increase, and this means that new scientific money cannot actually be received, and they could take part in the increased commitments imposed by the Bologna process by their improvement and by their progress in the education system. Unfortunately, that's not going to happen here. So what's said in the rationale bombistic at the beginning of the Bologna process, the state prom is actually seen here also by the fact that for the external evaluation of education and for the Bologna process, scientific recruits are not giving enough money to actually be just a mere declaration, and that there is no talking about really having to be a significant shift, a shift or a breakthrough in the segment of education whether it's basic, middle or high education. These are the reasons why I believe that this budget is a conservative budget, and of course the next budget, the last budget, if it will be of course in the term of this government, can also be nothing but a conservative budget and these are reasons why I will not be able to give my voice to this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48694	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First Mr. Marco Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48695	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Dear counterpart Rados said in his presentation the following. For irrigation in this budget, 16 million kuna is provided, it is too little, nothing can be done. It would be best if this government made a project documentation and then some other government would continue to implement the irrigation programme. My colleague, Radoš, this is an incorrect and incorrect claim. It's a programme the government has promised to start implementing in four years. This is the only way to talk about this program for those who do not have the right idea of the realization of such problems and programs that require real investigative work, real pilot projects and, of course, it is one activity that has really lagged behind in our country because in the past 60 years, no kuna has really invested in this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48696	Thank you. The correction is like 90% of others, because the correction of opinion is true, but we tolerate it if it is. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48697	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, respected counterpart Rados said as far as education is concerned, that it is lagging behind, that there is no investment in education at all, that wages will grow to 2%. From what we get in the salary budget, it won't grow much, but it's still going to grow 3-4%, and I believe that they would grow and more that this government didn't have to pay back those debts that the last government left behind. 105 million just for shifts this year has been paid off, it's a 2002 debt. – 260 million kuna to repay the debt for the 2001 regression. So he's still investing in education, debt returns. As far as scientific recruits are concerned, the following data are available. In 2003, no scientific recruit was employed. 2004. — 588, 2005. – 162, so in two years 750 scientific recruits, which is certainly very significant because these are really the best personnel, they enter the system of higher education science, and this year they will also be employed because they are already some applications in the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48698	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mrs. Ivana Posavec's turn. ... I'm sorry, I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48699	So Mrs. Roksandić and my colleague, Širac, were injured by the Rules of Procedure because they reported for correcting the incorrect allegations, and in fact none of my fellow MPs corrected any of my incorrect allegations. They confirmed exactly what I said. Mrs. Roksandic agreed that there was no increase in wages, so did I, and Mr. Širac said there were no investments in this segment of irrigation in which much investment should be made. Therefore, they reported a correction to the incorrect quote, and they did not correct the incorrect one, it would have been more correct if they had gone with the replica, then I could have answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48700	It is also true, I also told Mr. Shirtz, but you also did not comply with the Rules of Procedure because you should have applied for the article of the Rules of Procedure as soon as you objected. ... I didn't hear that, and maybe you did. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So let's not go about these corrections of the incorrect allegation, because 95% of it is dared to say, they are not at all correcters of the false allegation but answers to opinions and replicas that are called corrections of an incorrect quote, so they are wrongly called, right? Now, if you'll excuse me, ma'am. Here you go, Mrs. Ivana Posavec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am sorry to conclude that it is obvious what the government's position is in the opinion of our parliamentarians here when here is the second day of debate, unfortunately we are discussing without a representative of the Government. It is true that during yesterday and today, much has been said here about the document in front of us. That he's characterized differently. The question is, how are we going to characterize it and what are we going to conclude from it? The question arises whether the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 is developed and social, the question is whether it is ambitious and feasible, as the prime minister and finance minister claim. The financial lines of the budget, as well as all its additional documents, make it clear that it is as well as the two current budgets of the HDZ Government without a vision of economic development. The budget has no answer for the economic empowerment of the country, for so often mentioning the movement of Croatia. The upward trend of economic growth achieved in the previous term at a negative rate of -0.9% in 2000 to 5.2% in 2002 and 5.1% in the first half of 2003, respectively, this government reduced and reduced to 3.8%. The tendency of further continuous reduction is equally present. It is indeed the launch of Croatia, it is indeed what we were promised, but not the launch of the economy in a positive but unfortunately in a negative direction. It is simple and logical to conclude that reducing economic growth is not possible to increase wages, there is no possibility of increasing pensions, of better health service or perhaps reform at all that we are not talking about. The overall standard of living is at stake because this budget does not offer a vision of the improvement of our fellow citizens. This budget throws us into reality and raises the question that was asked here yesterday. How do you survive with 31 kuna a day? This is a question that will be raised in the coming year before an increasing number of Croatian citizens because the increase in living standards is an illusion. Social decomposition is getting more and more pronounced. The number of poor, unfortunately, is growing, and more and more people are on the border of existence. As said on a loaf of bread and a liter of milk a day. The pensioners may not have it either, because there is an additional 30 kuna of administrative fees imposed by this government this year, and tell me which pensioner does not need to visit a doctor 3 times a month. Since the start of Croatia, there has been nothing since the 3rd financial year. All of these are empty promises from a guarantee card that's long since expired. Investments in development are insufficient. Tax bonds will not live better, on the contrary, it will be them who will bear the greatest burden of all these compromises, not to say commercial, solutions to this budget which has taken their final drafts not as usual in social dialogue but in a clause of similar party leaders. This budget outlines the ruling coalition, compromises that provide enough hands in the Croatian Parliament for its adoption. And it's the right of the ruling and so the budget became transparent. It is transparent what were the requirements and what was the price of the support. It is nice to hear the prime minister talking about the government's efforts to maintain the usual policy practice of a balanced development of all Croatian parts. It is commendable, but it is saddened that for the prime minister and this government, some are more and some are less Croatian. It is a pity for Croatia that the government is headed by the prime minister of a selective approach to local communities in which the government behaves HDZ or its coalition partners and environments in which the opposition is in power at the state level. Such a selective approach to investment will certainly not be sufficient to further launch such a desired development and put the implementation of a series of successfully launched projects at risk. The prime minister says, among other things, that the budget is ambitious. It becomes unclear to me the word "ambitious" when the level of decentralised assets remains the same compared to this year. Where did the further decentralisation get so announced? She was left behind, colleagues and colleagues, just as many of the government's announced projects were missing. When we talk about encouraging investment, for example, in island spaces, I stress that it's only virtual. In this development, what development we're talking about when we're reducing resources for islands by a total of 60 million. The lessons learned over the past 2 years are clear that it is a budget that meets the needs of the parliamentary majority and does not follow the announced structural reforms and announced development. For example, in the paper we read about the announcements of the Minister of Health, about preventive measures, specifically about free mammography for women of risky age. And while the minister announces it in the media in the budget of his ministry for the prevention and early detection of breast cancer stands, he will not believe, with a letter and 250 thousand kuna. My colleagues and colleagues, and only one Zagreb County here in the environment for a mobile mammography project each year is set aside 300 thousand kunas. A review of these means is made by 2 and a half thousand women and then a question is raised again if 2 and a half thousand women review costs 300 thousand kuna, what is this about? It is, colleagues and colleagues, again about the Celephan packaging and the presentation of the budget to the public. Who would suspect such caring wishes and announced preventive measures by the minister. There's no doubt there'll be free checks, we don't doubt that, it's just a question as much as the question is for who. Once again we come to the fact of selective approach because 250 thousand kunas certainly are not enough to prevent such malignant diseases. The ambition of this budget is obvious in relation to the unemployment problem, and we will all agree here that this is one of the main priorities for resolving it because its solution means new revenues, means increasing the gross social product and then reducing unemployment in the period from March 2003 to August 2005. Out of nearly 80,000 new employees and to find out, this was found here in fact also in the light of this budget on page 277 under the basis of the Development and Employment Fund. Then you characterize it as bad. And then after 3 years, the government abolishes the measures that led to this reduction and ambitiously announces the achievement of 5,000 jobs during 2006. In his remarks, the other person at the Ministry of Finance, Ms. Secretary of State Martina Dalic, confirms it. It is this ambitious programme, which starts only in the third financial year and its ambitious, but also with the real dynamics of the Government of Ivo Sanader that will solve the problem of 300 thousand unemployed precisely in 60 years. Apparently, the old unemployment reduction program was too ambitious for this government, and that alone could be the reason for its abolition. Because whatever you're looking at, the fact remains that 20,000 jobs have been achieved four times as many as the announced 5,000 unemployed less per year. Budgetary increase in resources for science and overall education that will create a knowledge country from Croatia has also been announced. These increases are on average 6.6% compared to this year's budget rebalance, while the nominal GDP growth is projected to be 7.4%. This means that the share of science and education in GDP has fallen significantly. Instead of growing in accordance with the European Union guidelines. This is a concrete remark from the Croatian Union and Public Service Matica. They stress that the average disbursement from public funds for science and education in European Union countries is 6.18% of GDP, and in Croatia only 4.52%. This is a proposal for a budget that is contrary to modern democratic principles adopted without social partners. This is a budget that does not suggest development, but through recession leads us to a crisis. This is the path that HDZ leads Croatia, a path and strategy that HDZ has confirmed for the third time in the adoption of a budget that has no vision, let alone the power to be developed. At the very end, I will quote the prime minister: "I don't think the SDP will support the budget, but that they are objective and that they care about the common good they would support it." Well, you see for us and for me in the SDP, general interests and general well-being are always ahead of the personal and therefore there is no talking about accepting these appropriations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48702	Thank you very much. We have three corrections and one replica. First, please, first of all, there is a correction by Mrs Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48703	Mr. President, my dear colleague, I will not repeat myself what I have answered to your friend, my colleague and yours. The Croatian Democratic Community has launched Croatia forward, so I will continue to say a waste management strategy totaled over 3 years and 500 million kuna, so far 200 million kuna has been paid. Unlawful construction has been stopped, and you have done until 2003 what you have done 50 years in connection with illegal construction. For the first time, a state council has also been established in the hope that it will preserve what can still be preserved in Croatia. Three hundred thousand unemployed today, unlike in 2002, there are four hundred thousand. Today, there was no mention of what was very important, and that is small and medium entrepreneurship. For two years we gave faster and cheaper loans, 2 billion kunas were granted to entrepreneurs, so far they have been financed 234... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48704	Thank you very much. Leave it for the second correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48705	It's worth 150 million kuna. I'll move on if I get a chance, and I'll get one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48706	Thank you very much. We have another correction, Mr. Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48707	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Krivec is almost completely wrong, and she said, "I'll correct two allegations first says we've been arguing without a government representative for two days." That's not true because yesterday the entire government was here, and a full two days here is the finance minister of a number of other ministers. And the next thing I want to fix is her statement by which the government is selective depending on where it is in the local community in HDZ, and where the opposition is relative to the state level. That's also not true, and I'm asking you to tell us at least one example of where it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48708	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48709	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Posavec said the government announced the opening of 5,000 new jobs in 2006. That's not true. Namely, not one member of the government, nor the president, nor the finance minister, nor any other member of the government mentioned that amount at all. The government has created a macroeconomic framework in which next year's employment will certainly be far above the trend it was during your government. I'll just remind you, the highest unemployment rate was in 2002, and the number of unemployed in the 9th month of 2003, I think it even exceeded 400 grand. Therefore, when it comes to unemployment, and then you as a member of the party that formed the former government do not have much competence to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48710	Thank you very much. We have a replica, Mr. Slavko Linic. ... I didn't see it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mrs. Brnadić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48711	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd fix my colleague in the part where she talked, I could fix a lot of things, but here I think we've already fixed so much, so I don't really know how we're gonna prove that most of the allegations are wrong, but here's a colleague who thinks that breast cancer prevention should be financed by a special item in the state budget. I have to tell you colleagues that breast cancer prevention is financed through regular work of primary, secondary, health care and public health care, and further in the prevention of breast cancer, many civil society, many people of good faith who don't spare their free time to work on breast cancer prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48712	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48713	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague tried to point out that there are insufficient resources for the health care of Croatian citizens and it is obvious that with the growth of inflation with the problematic I would say the lower wage growth and pensions will be increasingly difficult by the citizens to raise funds for the financing of healthcare. All this suggests that in the third year of the term of office of our Croatian government, significant reforms in the system of health and health insurance were to be made, and it is certain that the absence of this health move, the absence of this... The way of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the reason why we are unable to provide the necessary resources for the health of citizens, for investing in health, for preventing Croatian citizens from being healthy. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] And, of course, since there is not enough of these funds then the problem of constantly burdening citizens, the constant poverty of citizens, but it is not the only problem, the problem is that the full salary of workers, the employer is burdened with contributions to health insurance, and then the problem is to weaken the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, and that is one of the reasons why the Croatian economy has export problems, with the exit of goods to European markets because it is simply not able to bear at its cost of costing health reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48714	Thank you. Answer, Posavec the Insect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48715	Well, I thank my colleague Linic for a little bit of complementing this rhetoric and in fact showing how we have equally tried to look at the aspect of some things, but I am sorry that my colleagues here do not want to see what the situation in Croatia will look like by adopting this budget. They do not want to see that health care spending in the following year is at the level of rebalancing in 2005, they do not want to see that there will be no increase in wages and pensions, i.e. that our citizens will find it much more difficult to achieve primary health care in the following year, thanks to those payments of 30 kuna, and I will also rely on what is said that the Government has given 220 million kunas for the disposal of waste disposal sites. This is not true because it is not the government's funds, it was paid by taxpayers when registering their motor vehicles, and those funds were not allocated, but were intended for signed contracts, and these contracts would be realised within 5 years. So that's not what happened, it's what's going to happen from taxpayers' funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48716	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48717	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives, Your Honor, Mr. Minister! Hard of heart, but first of all, I have to make investments when it comes to the County of Istria that knows this budget. This means the primary school "Vrban" 500 thousand kuna, the Italian school Buje 300 thousand kuna, the sports hall of the Italian secondary school in Pula 3 million kuna, the regular activity of the University of Pula million kuna, the Home for Children Pula 800,000 kuna, the House for Children and Youth Pula 400 thousand, Villa Marija Pula, it is a nursing home, 2 million 598 thousand kuna, the General Hospital Pula 13 million and 400 thousand kuna and the House for Mentally Sick Persons in Motovun 2 million kuna and the regional development of Istria County million kuna. A total of 27 million 238,000 786 kuna. Even certain projects that are otherwise signed between the competent ministries that, by logic, things should have been included in this annual budget have not found places there. Okay. The transmission is probably not looking in Croatia anyway. They look over the satellite and then I translate it on them, a reasonable language. That 27.2 million kuna is somewhere around 3.7 million euros or 4.5 million US dollars. I say that these amounts are kind of humiliated, but in some ways gentlemen are telling us that if you're not with me, if you don't hold on to this budget, or if you don't support this budget, if you don't vote for it, not that you're my opponent, then I guess you're the enemy that can't be true. But on the other hand, forgets the government that state budget to fill both Istria and Rijeka and... etc. And not only those whom these great coins are guided. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Last year, from capital investments in the budget, we were represented with 28 million kuna, this year with 1 million kuna less. And I say, gentlemen, it's simply humiliating. I agree that part of the money will also be transferred to Istria to call it from these pairs of state funds, let's say Croatian roads. It may be 10 to 15 million kunas from the talks with Director Mr. Boban mentions the shares of Novigrad-Nova you 2 kilometers of asphalt above Buzet, the bypass of Vranje, the asphalting... To Brest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the citizens of Istria if they keep in mind that Osijek as it is all day today is talking about yesterday, etc. He gets a billion and a half kuna, which, to be honest, I doubt, they deserve. If the state budget stands out two to three times as much as the national average, I don't suppose they're knowingly punished. Someone may mention those 182.4 million kunas for the Istria stage, but when it comes to that, I want to say the following. Istria, as my colleague, Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, said, is the only county that has no mile in Croatia, not one metre of highways. Ipsilon, more specifically this concession on the ypsilon, is the political project by Franjo Tudjman, whom we are talking about, that concession, could not have been suspended by any government, regardless of what I claim to have been harmful and that with these means, those concessions could have been done twice as many miles as they seem. The tunnel Učka which has 5 thousand 200 meters of Istria, Rijeka, etc. and all those arriving in Istria or exiting Istria pay 28 kuna and 160km of highway, half highway from Rijeka to Zagreb on whose route is at least 8 thousand meters of tunnel we pay 56 kuna. Crossing over the Mirna bridge 400 to 1,000 and 500 meters is about, don't catch me by word, Istrians or those who come to Istria, they pay 14 kuna. The Krk Bridge, as I've heard, as you all know about all the locals, I think of all the islanders, is simply free and we're getting skins. And now it is still being considered in this country that wherever these roads are run by the Croatian highways during the winter period, they are being brought into a state that their toll is 30% smaller than the ipsion, except on that unfortunate bridge as if gentlemen were holding us to the treasure. It's just not right. You just show him that the gentlemen don't understand Istria. Only from tolls, means excise duty on oil derivatives, etc. Istrians in the state budget pay more than 400 million kuna and from this concession, the concessionary collects more than 400 million kuna. The situation is similar with the Primorje-Gorski County. It mentions 92.2 million kuna, though, for the Bakar Sports Hall 8 million 450 thousand kuna. I didn't mean to ask who was in power in Bakru, but I'm sure by this point that HDZ is, which I'm sure of and I didn't want to ask anyone. Accommodation and nutrition of students in Rijeka 22 million kuna, then the University of Rijeka 22 million kuna, the hospital in Rijeka, come on it is a decent item, 34 million kuna, in Lovran 461 thousand kuna, the restoration of the building in Rijeka 900 thousand kuna, the regional development of 2.6 million kuna. A total of 92.2 million kunas like we managed it. The conclusion is simply transparent. Where the HDZs are in power, they'll get there and where they're not or some others and they don't support the budget and they'll vote against, and you won't get there. Clearly, it would be no dispute if only HDZ's budget were filled by both SDPs and HSS and those who do not go to elections, both the HNS and IDS, etc. Then, it is estimated that in 2006, the profits will be collected, that I am going to this particular 4 billion kuna, and in 2005, 3 billion kuna did not add up. How? I just don't understand it. But since the dividends in 2005, a billion 868 million kunas have been collected, in 2006, only a billion 537 are planned. But neither will it be, especially if the government intends to return pensions by selling those most profitable Croatian companies, I mean here on HT and INA as well as intends to sell the share in those thousands of other companies. Why are we planning only 350 million kunas or 225 million kunas from 2006 concessions less than in 2004 when we pass a good law as proposed by the Government on tourist land based on which hoteliers will probably start to pay rent in camps. Imagine, for 13 years, they've been using camps without paying this country a single kuna fee. We see punishments flying into the sky, etc. I'm saying we can lie to each other, promise this or that, but it's true that our people live harder every year. We can boast now and Europe, etc. But the small craftsmen of them 18 thousand are with blocked accounts. Tomorrow, we will ban these same craftsmen from working on Sundays, and by the end of 2006, we will have 28 thousand craftsmen with blocked accounts. It is becoming more difficult to live in this Croatia. They're all over-indebted. The church is asking for a ban. But the church doesn't fill the state budget, it's filled with these I don't know how many hundred thousand small craftsmen there are. Don't tell them not to work at least in the season when they can get something. For a thousand EUR in this country you can clearly buy a car, car right away and you will get both helmet and mandatory insurance but without cash in this country we can't buy a pig's half through the Trade Unions. We now praise the return of debt to pensioners through the sale of Croatia. And the new pensioners, we know what position they're in. There's no doubt about me at all. This budget will take place in one way or another, but developments in this country happen by momentum, and that is fortunately Croatia's luck that this economy is in some way running on its own even though duty is what it is. The only way to prevail means this one unreasonable financial situation is decentralisation. Will that happen, when? Is there going to be a change of government for that to happen? We will see but without it there is no more uniform development of the Republic of Croatia, but in the future, simply one space will be punished, the other will not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48718	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48719	And another sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48720	Thank you very much. [[/Intruders: Done! He can't!]] We have three incorrect corrections, I like to say how much you can prepare yourself. First is Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48721	Thank you. So here's the first incorrect quote is HDZ where it's in power all gets. If it were true, St. Peter in the woods would have at least a four-way road. And there isn't, is there? Is there? [[Intruder: There.]] That's impossible. Secondly, it is incorrect to ban Sunday’s craftsmen from working. We're talking about traders. The craftsmen don't work on Sundays, but they do warehouses of construction material. Still if you're talking about decentralisation it's doing it in a very strange way. Because you're actually creating a new centralization and it's just a center, I don't know in Austria or Italy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48722	Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48723	Well, here's colleague Damir Cain speaking in his very emotional speech about the citizens of Istria. He was talking about filling Istrana with the State Budget. So he talked about people coming to Istria, the Istrians, he doesn't know... Where is Istra anyway, where is she? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm gonna fix this. It says, "The budget...... Please, just a little bit. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] "The budget is not only filled by HDZ, but by SDP, IDS, HNS, HSS and so on." Well, that's incorrect. Remember that the budget is filled with workers and citizens, working class, avant-garde working class, workers, peasants and honest intelligence. That's what you need to know. If you had said that, I would have supported the land of Istria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48724	Thank you. Correction of Mr. Krono Peronja's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48725	He repeatedly pointed out that this budget is not being developed, as it is happening all by itself, but it is true that it is just being developed, precisely the data on developments are talking about one development trend and not only for 2006 but also in the projection for 2007 and 2008, and the indicators are such, and also people, the government that is talking and showing how it is done and how we can rightly support this budget as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48726	Thank you. We're moving on, we're moving on. Mr. Agent Jena Adam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48727	Honored Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If it is true that the satisfaction of citizens with the rule and even life in the country is the strongest support in building a picture of the country in the International Community then in the 2006 budget, sufficient resources should be provided for areas of special state concern with the aim of recognising the specificity of these areas. In the past, a lot has been done but not enough first of all I think about areas of special state concern where problems are resolved slowly and ineffectively. We expect concrete steps towards promoting development of the settlement, building infrastructure and improving living conditions where the indigenous Hungarian population lives. Baranja area, Baranja triangle is one of the most lagging areas of development in every respect not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in the area of Osijek-Baranja County. It is in this area, and since it is fully occupied during the Homeland War and now the area of special state care lives over 50% of the Hungarian national minority. War destruction as well as a great delay in privatising the uncontested largest economic operator of this area of combinations Belje d.d. Before the war almost 70% of economic potential led to a local unit of the Baranja municipality in a very complex situation and in the inability to solve the country's necessary infrastructure problems for successful economic overall development in view of the private resources of the area. Thanks to the understanding of certain ministries, above all, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development as well as the major state systems of the Croatian Road, Croatian Water and Croatian Electricity, positive shifts have been recorded. However, as a result of the dispute, I would say state red tape within these systems very important procedures for the overall development of the area for almost a year and more are waiting for resolution. In some villages in the municipality of Knezeva vineyards, the only municipality in the Republic of Croatia where members of the Hungarian national minority make up a relative majority of us have a street where there is no stone and in winter, entering those streets is not possible for personal cars. In December 2002, the Interstate Agreement on the Mixed Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary accepted that the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to build a gym for physical and health culture at the Dragonjevac elementary school. Since the vast majority of inhabitants live on agriculture, given the elemental disasters that hit the municipality's planned revenues in 2005 do not come true and are also questionable for 2006. I would remind you that the Joint Committee on the Cooperation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary at the fourth session in Plitvice this year has drawn up projects of importance within the Joint Committee. Building a bridge over Mura, providing material coverage for the publication of a new Croatian-Hungarian and Hungarian-Croatian dictionary, organising Hungarian professional and language training at the University of Osijek, expanding cooperation in the field of environmental and nature protection, and starting negotiations to sign a bilateral agreement on ensuring the visibility of the common state border. Of course, there are other things that we are not satisfied with, but I am convinced that all the problems that have arisen can be resolved to the mutual benefit with correct cooperation. I must express my satisfaction that the government adheres to an agreement with representatives of national minorities on the means of publishing or the cultural needs of national minorities. I ask for an understanding of the allocation of 2006 funds to accept the highlighted remarks and proposals and I am ready to support the 2006 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48728	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Frano Piploic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48729	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So here's two days we've been listening to this debate and I just feel the need to make some kind of comment, some of my vision of the current course of debate. The first thing that fell into my eyes is the next fact if anyone currently in Croatia has any functional similarities with the legendary Santa Claus but Santa Claus, then it's certainly our finance minister, Mr. Ivan Shuker. From him, or he from the government, we received recent gifts from a thick package of papers, which show who will receive any gifts in 2006 if he is good, he knows how to use them, etc., etc. Otherwise,......... Well, there are some. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's literally when it comes to such a legendary figure, then it's always a matter of the good fortune of Santa Claus, or Santa Claus, when we unpacked those contents, then things went a little differently. There's been some big confidence in Santa Claus but Santa Claus, and in fact, this debate has taken on the currents we've had these two days. However, what was still in the eyes before these gifts were actually unpacked by those who had already, some knew in advance what they would get, so they boasted through the press that they had received the best part. However, the debate itself has shown that there are also those who do not correspond to such distribution, who are not satisfied and are rightly rejuvenated, are they? But there are also those who still believe that in some hidden bags of Santa Claus bags there are some gifts that will be donated in some later procedure. And that's the same legitimate thing, so let's face it, who's got the hooks, who's got the both of them. Otherwise, when the budget is passed, it's actually impossible to bring it without two halfs. On the one hand you have a position, on the other hand the opposition. It's one democratic standard where the budget is bragged like that. Even in the most perfect system in the world in which we have lived, the system has also taken care of this two-ochemia, meaning opposition and position. So instead of the actual opposition, some of the opposition members played a fined opposition. Why? So to show how smart the position is and how it really takes what the people want and that it's actually in the bright future. This mere-teacher part of budgeting is actually mandatory to pass. It's better to spend those two days than to have fun that way later in the year. I was delighted with, say, yesterday's equation by my colleague Milanka Opacic with a basket. And let's say I was doing it, I'd say with that basket, I'd put on a folk costume, like the folk costume of these dolca bitches, so that actually the atmosphere, that mere-theated far more effective. I'm sorry my co-worker's gone, and let's say a few of the things she's brought out, I don't agree. I don't agree with that when it comes to the price of a heart attack. I think she neglected the markets, that the market is what sets the price. I don't know where she got the price of 16 kunas. I have experience with this kind of fish and as far as I know in the course of the tourist season when the biggest fish consumption in the morning the price of the grill is about 10 kuna. About 12 hours you can get them between 3 and 5 kuna, and at 2 p.m. you can wear them for free. It's about the price itself. And as for the combination of baskets, I don't agree with her. It's one side of an insult to tradition. When it goes, it can't go milk, it has to go wine, don't say mass, it can go mass, and it can go even what they call an antabus in Slavonia. Yesterday, Prime Minister Sanader spoke here of strategic goals reflecting the proposed budget. During the entire debate, I did not see anyone challenge strategic goals. And all one difference in approach during the debate stemmed from the corner of some fear that, for example, strategic goals could not be achieved, that dynamics would not be realized, that the price would be large and that the consequences would probably be for some segments of society. One of the goals is to continue the construction of our road infrastructure, meaning capital facilities such as highways, and our wish is to get foreign investors on that highway, if possible, with their resources to invest there. We also wish that the part that makes Croatia at least retain some time to turn around at least one investment cycle so that Croatia can benefit from it. I'm aware that all our wishes can't fit into the budget bag and that they would actually satisfy that syntagm used by the position and opposition here all the time, so those who wanted to support it, those who wanted to reject it. In fact, this budget should be in the function of waking up and developing the resources with which Croatia has no or no resources. Let's hold on, say, and I need to say a few words from the corner of the party that I belong to. We believe that the status of these strategic objectives should have been given to some more segments. However, if they have not now, I hope there will be opportunities in some budget rebalancing or possibly in the next budget. But it is not appropriate to say that one of the important goals should be to fight corruption in society, that funds should be allocated for both staff and organisation. Another goal, which is given the proper importance in this budget, seems to me not enough, is demining. This is especially important from the corner of Slavonia, because in Slavonia, if someone went to Vukovar a week ago, he could see the board to the table that the areas were still mined. And Croatia will not be able to run effectively if Slavonia is busy with mines. Furthermore, another segment that I believe is important, that it should be placed in the future, is the protection of biomass, i.e. bioresurs in the Croatian Adriatic. First of all, fish and marine organisms. There's one item here today, the construction of a fishing wholesaler. I think it's a small item, that should be increased. Why? Because fish are sold in places where it's impossible to control. So according to one estimate, about $250m means fish and marine organisms are gone, and Croatia has no use for that. And another item, it refers to the preparation of the burned surfaces. That's where my colleague mentioned it earlier. In Dalmatia and in islands for new cultures, above all for olive growing because there is an indication that at certain attractive locations where fires occurred, that certain mechanics want to build facilities of entertainment and luxury, which is otherwise an insult to our citizen himself. And now just a few words about it, I'll be very brief. ... We in Slavonski when we looked at this budget, we didn't find ourselves in the way we expected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We won, you know very well where the Slavon ship is and what it experienced during the Homeland War and as a reward after the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the famous Dayton Agreement we received as the main hit of 25 thousand Posaviaks. We are left with the Posavinas and their lives, and the Serbs with Posavina. I mentioned this, however, that we should not be deaf about the position of the Slavon ship because we cannot solve our problems without the help of the state. I wonder why there aren't any objects that have been...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48730	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48731	... first of all the port of Brod, east bypass roads. I will submit a few amendments, but regardless of the amendments I will vote for this budget. I believe the minister and the government will hear about the Slavon ship.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48732	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Jakša Marasovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. It doesn't either. Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48733	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, and now for cultural news, I've adapted usually when it comes to public television so that for the first time I've been informed someone's going to say something about culture, you might have said it before, but we've had a lot of recent jobs. Now we're going to see how far past these are or not so far past jobs. First of all, I would like to say that by commenting on the basic principles of this budget and the first paragraph when we saw it, we were inclined to praise this budget, but the Ministry of Culture is one of the three ministries that did not bring the paper with explanations, which is what is in that budget so that only when we got the paper we could see a little bit better how things actually stand with money for culture and perspective culture within the budget. So first of all, let me say about this piece of paper that's been waiting a little longer than it's supposed to be, it'll be interesting to see, first of all, how justice increases the costs of the Ministry of Culture itself. He says it'll be because of the increased volume of the program. This is what I warn linguists from the college party who are very sensitive to these terms, that the Ministry of Culture is increasing its scope. But that's not all, there's another reason why it's also going to be growing the resources of the ministry itself because I say it's going to increase control over a number of archaeological research. I thought the Ministry of Culture provided surveillance of the localities, but I can see that he is now engaged in and supervision of the research, and as I heard that just some experts have been replaced recently by researchers, I guess that's why it really takes quite a lot of resources, so now there's going to be an expansion of the surveillance of the localities and to oversee the research of these sites. Then the logic of this paper is also interesting where it is said to be an increase among other things and because it appears as a new phenomenon of intensive international co-operation. Otherwise, that's exactly the point that's been reduced by two million. So I don't know how something gets bigger than what's smaller. But that's so, it's how I do it now, about the very skills of paper. Let's leave the paperwork, get to the point. The criteria in culture are to simplify all stories whether we're in inflation as much or as much and whether we have liquidity like this or not, I'll forget all that. It consists of, say, four main Corpses. One is a cultural development programme, the other is heritage, the third is the work of institutions in culture and the fourth is investment. Here's the thing. First of all, as far as the program is concerned. The programmes of cultural, or cultural development and creation programme as the item is called is a key item of the Ministry of Culture. She deals with everything considered a living culture. So there's publishing and film, there's all possible projects, there's exhibitions, etc. etc. In order to assess, because when it comes to the budget, I have to say that this item has grown in such a way that it has not actually yet reached but is some close to 100 million below the item that was for this head in 2003 when it was 666 million, and now it is 570 million including something that should be added to it, which is investments, but it has its own and special structure and it will be seen that it is not. So it is still contrary to the regular and annual increase in cultural resources for the Ministry of Culture around 12% annually from 2000 to 2003 not only have not yet been achieved but most of them are rejected the elements of the amount, which is about this way. In contrast to the 59 million paid for publishing and library, 50 million are now being given, so 9 million less. Contrary to the cultural heritage of 155 million, 117 million are now being given for 38 million less. These are unfortunately numbers, these aren't my comments. You will come and you will be able to compare it. For that so-called. international cooperation 3 million less, etc. etc. I could go from item to item. So on what we call a cultural development programme, we're not here, not only have we not reached the level since 2003, but we're still fat under that level. But since it's not the only thing about the ministry we go to the second item, it's a legacy. Some cultural ministries in the world and in Europe are not even called the Ministry of Culture but are called the Ministry of Cultural Heritage because it is believed that if all of this could somehow somehow function spontaneously, so to speak up to the activities of people, cultural workers, enthusiasts, etc. The heritage is something the state must always worry about because it's some foundation they need, the services they need it for, so the funds. In that position, having 38 million kunas less today than in 2003 means really ignoring something very important. But it's not the worst thing, it's even worse than that, which is that the Law on Monumental Rent, that is, the law within the second law, is just a monumental rent that we've all fought for, and for which also respected colleagues from HDZ then voted to substitute, because of that, there will be no means to protect cultural heritage. Please use the picture, it's very simple, I may have used it a few times, but as it's simple, it's best for her. The funds for the protection of cultural heritage are for Euphrazi basilica, and the funds for the Poreč monumental rent and the state cannot get out of care for Euphrazi basilica, but Poreč has to raise funds that except that the tourist town in some way paints its core, that some other infrastructure facilities work, etc. etc. If we're changing our rent for state care and if we're not growing our cultural budget year by year, if we're growing significantly now compared to earlier funds, but we're still 38 million below 2003, I don't know who's going to lift the bat to something, that's unfortunately the facts, that's what it looks like. It's not all black. It's not all black, because I also want to not look a little left, a little right eye, but constantly with both eyes and inside both eyes I see one serious growth in terms of investment. It really did, and there it jumped, actually the index is 171% of 111 million to 191 million. I'm glad it happened, but I'm glad and the next thing I know, it's finally gonna stop the arguments that were coming out that someone's made someone a debt. This is the debt that has been made before but is realized with a few years of delay because they are committed to what is proudly listed by the Museum of Contemporary Art in Zagreb, the Museum... in Vido, the Museum of Krapina Pred human... Museum of Contemporary Art in Rijeka, etc. etc. Because it's a real pride of every country, so I'm glad that even though we're late at this point, we've taken off the question of alleged debt because at these points there were these so-called. Debts, it was simply obligations that were planned in culture and that needed money so much, and I'm glad the government realized that it was finally to be realized and that it had done so. [[You don't understand.]] And I hope that there won't be anything different solved in rebalancing. Though I must honestly say that I am afraid. I'm going to express concern about the next argument that I find in the structure of what's being described where it's going to go, so that 191 million. In addition to what I've listed, there are a few other things, but I don't see some things that have also been going on, so it's not saying investments in the course that this refers to, for example, the music-smart complex that is being built in Zadar, which includes the reconstruction of the theatre plus some additional buildings, etc., which was in the program, it's not here. There is no continuation of works on Meštrovic's pavilion, which is one of the priority tasks, which is the monument of one of the highest categories. It's not there. That red light! But there's one for the Marco Paul Museum in Korčula. I'm very interested in which museum council will approve its funds for the Mark Paul Museum in Korčula. I must also warn you that in museum councils, they are under the law of institutions where experts sit, indeed. It is even an art that is quite autonomous of the ministry, so I am very interested in what councils will approve the funds for the Mark Paul Museum in Korčula. Otherwise, I wish very, very, very good luck...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48734	Finish it, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48735	... The Korčulans with, to put it this way, the idea of building some attractive things through Mark Paul. Unfortunately, there it is, interrupting my time. There's no rule by which because we... The debater in the Parliament is talking about culture for a little while, maybe a little longer, so I'm withdrawing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you to take what I've been saying to your conscience. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48736	Thank you very much. Accordingly, there will be one replica from the culture. Mrs. Jagoda Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48737	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm not going to do, and I deliberately answered the line because Mr. Representative Vujic said a lot and there wouldn't be enough time to correct the incorrect allegations. However, I am very glad that Mr. Vujic was able to commend something, and these are the investments in the culture that grew compared to 2005. 71%. But Mr. Vujic has repeatedly avoided saying the basic fact. That the Ministry of Culture totaled 22% higher, which is almost incomparable to any other ministry. So, that 22% more says the opposite, Mr. Vujic, of all the details you've given here, with which some of me may disagree. Especially when you're talking about a cultural development program. It has 12% more which is within the existing possibilities simply as it is, and you yourself said that investments are what they deserve and thank you very much for getting them. However, 22% more compared to last year, it is an enormous increase that will in many ways improve everything that could not, precisely because of those debts we discussed, which you mentioned today. But please, we don't want to talk about old sins because as you can see, we're very successful in fixing them. Also, you have avoided saying that 4 new conservatory departments will be opened in 2006. In Krapina, Bjelovar, Sisak and Slavonski Brod. It is also a very important fact that speaks a lot about the care that decentralisations both activities and resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48738	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48739	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48740	Replication response, Mr. Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48741	First, I must thank Mrs. Martincevic for giving me the opportunity to replicate, together we have some interests. But right away, I said that he would be very pleased with the increase in the budget from the Ministry of Culture if it didn't apply exclusively to investments. This refers exclusively to investments, not to the so-called cultural development programme, because in this programme I have just told you and cited items. They're a relative increase compared to last year, but they haven't reached nearly 2003 yet, and I was undermining it. But to shorten our impressions and speak again in light of the facts. Which means, let's say, the support of publishing is what it is. Maybe the other day you saw a chart, it looks like this, from 2000 to 2003, like a Christmas tree. Now I didn't bring it, and now it's falling down to the bottom. Less headlines. We had a trend that we got over a hundred new bookstores that are the indicator that this is about industry, that it's about trade. So according to the fact that you're also producing and reading now you have a drop below 60. That's what we should be joint solidarity to see, a small language, a relatively small culture, can't pull the state out of responsibility to it, and we actually did it. Except that we finally understood what it deserves to praise as a partial supplement and what it deserves to praise as a gradual strengthening of the culture ministry's budget in relation to itself, but not in relation to expected growth for culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48742	Thank you very much. Mr. Zdenko Antesic is up. He's gone, so he's losing his right. And as the last in an individual debate, Mr. Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48743	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've finally come to order as last. I won't be long and I promise I won't ask for anything. Anyway, if I was looking for anything, I wouldn't get it, of course. Moreover, all today or most speakers today are looking for something, and it seems to me that all these discussions in which something is sought are actually missing the very essence of the budget. The budget made me sad, to be honest. Not because he's extremely bad. This budget, I'm free to say, didn't miss anything significant. It's all wrapped up like a bun in a white coffee, there's everything, everybody's got a little something. But this budget didn't hit anything either. But he didn't hit anything. The budget is namely an act of policy that should be given and which gives some messages. The first message is that money will be collected, taxed, sold, leased, concessions, borrowing and so on. Another message about how the money will be distributed fairly. Just according to what the government and the finance minister find fair. And the third message that comes from the very essence of the budget is where this country goes and sees where the government leads. Messages a) and b), 1 and 2 are clear. The government has made it clear that the money will, I guess, be that it will, clearly says that it intends to be just how much it is in its power, to give each one something little so that no one is too unhappy, that no one blooms too much. However, there is a problem message number 3, messages c) which should, and especially because it is also money from the sale of assets and borrowings which should answer the question of where Croatia is actually going and how it will come where it intends to come from. It's wrong to say the bright future is by definition in the future, of course it's true, but it promises us one 50, 60, 70 in recent years, and it's impossible for us to come in the light of the future. I don't think this budget is exactly what you're seeing. The only real message, the clear message that this budget gives, is "let us rule, and we will try to calm everyone down a little bit, and at least the ones we need to rule on." This follows a series of illogical and non-consistent priorities. As a good priority of the Ministry of Culture with 124% investment in culture, but such as the lack of investment, real, real investment in education, in knowledge, and we have sworn for many years that we are the state of knowledge, that we will be the state of knowledge, as we will be in Europe of knowledge. Some countries to which we are also called by the type of Ireland, Finland, some far east countries have understood the path to this society, in which it is necessary to move and triple, tripled in a number of years their investments in knowledge and education. I'm not just talking about the formal school system here, I'm talking about knowledge as a position in the international labour market, knowledge as a commodity to be sold, which is a profitable commodity. Higher education in the United States, third export goods. So if a third of America's entire eastern coast can live well from higher education, some parts of Croatia could be convinced. And finally knowledge as an assumption of accepting new technologies, that's what we need most right now. It's not there. That in this budget, with a 7% increase in the education position, is definitely not there. Where are the new schools? There are 10 new schools being built inside, and we promise ourselves that within the next year or two we will move into one-way work in primary schools. Where's the early learning of foreign languages? I guess they all expect kids to learn from MTV English. He won't. They will not teach him enough to deal equally with his peers in the world. Where is finally all those who will stand evenly for 4.5 years, if you want to confront the market for ideas, on the knowledge market, on the investment market with their peers in Europe? No new higher education employment, investments are cut to a minimum, no network expansion. The prime minister now promises in the paper next year the opening of the University of Gospić, the University of Gospić in the budget, where will he open it? I guess he knows a man. All in all, Croatia stands, with this budget it does not move, and it should smite. It should be a simple reason for us not to fall behind and welcome as soon as possible here in 2007. We will not be ready until the end, but to be ready enough not to break us into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48744	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48745	I'm giving up, Mr. Vice President. It's for nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48746	Thank you very much. Now we've got a five-minute club debate. The first is on behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48747	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister of Finance, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. This is a typical HDZ budget. Once again I will say, where my parents are there I will direct the money, those who support me which is legitimate you will get, the others will get nothing. And once again I will say, the County of Istria gets 27.2 million kuna, but once again I will say in this or for this state budget all HDZ's, SDP's and HNS's, and I don't know the LS's, IDS's, etc. and those who clearly do not vote and as Mr. Loncar would say and honest intelligence and working class etc. And that's why the government has to be a government of everyone, not just some, because it leads to a decomposition that sooner or later will lead to someone having to say a lot of such self-will. The government is currently controlling 105.9 billion kuna. Mayor of Zagreb 6.3 billion kuna and all 400 other mayors, 150 mayors, 20 mayors of the remaining 6 to 7 billion kuna. This budget also comes from the fact that in 2006, I have this data from the budget that will end up with 5 thousand 400 jobs more than there were in 2005. It's a disaster in a country where a pensioner gets 1,37 workers, and if we refuse those who work in... for companies, i.e. on the national salary, the ratio is 1 to 1. The subsidies will not be touched, e.g. 18 thousand craftsmen are blocked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The budget is higher by 7.9 billion kuna in 2006 without the incomes of the HAK and Croatian roads. It's about six and a half billion kuna, and there's not a single item in this budget that's an intransparency couple of excellency that can lead to self-will tomorrow. This goes beyond the entire budget of the MORH and half of the Croatian police budget. We welcome the 3.3% deficit, the central state of 2%, but whether local self-government can be normally in debt now or whether there will be volunteering again, I will give to my own people, and I will not give it to others. Otherwise, local self-government deficit 0.3%, Croatian roads and other funds 1%, right. In 2006, there will be an impact on health standards, privatisation will be ruthless, the economy is developing by momentum, the state administration of the judiciary here is reducing rather than increasing revenues. Today half of the secondary schools in Croatia are blocked by an account, schools are left without heating and electricity, shipbuilding is down to $930 million, more specifically "Brodo Split" $400 million, "Tri Maj" 340, "Brodo Trogir" 120, Queen 80 million, and it is fortunate that "Oljinik" is not in such dubiosis even though he has finished this year or will end up with a loss of $150 million and no 260 million loan from that branch will hardly survive in February. So I won't envy and clearly and not envy the government, and I'm even able to say we're all in the same boat and position and opposition, but gentlemen, let's not train the strictness of politics, I'll give it to my own, and I won't give it to the others. It's a short breath policy, no one got a mandate for it, and that's why, or, above all, I'll be against it. This budget should not lead to social earthquakes we are all aware of, but based on this budget no one in this country will be satisfied. The new pensioners because they are older in a better position than they are, unemployed because they will not continue to work would say Mr. Linic to those who live on subsidies because they remain at last level, the businessmen because they will be further treated through the financial police, but it is easy to share, it is far harder to create and therefore at least gentlemen finally agree on two things, on pension and on employment policy. Anything else in this country will go for some momentum, but we need to reach a minimum consensus on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48748	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club 5 minutes Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48749	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 is a sign of the three-year work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this term. Therefore, the most important year of government work in one term. What can we conclude? The budget size of 100 billion kuna, perhaps a little more and 72% of that amount goes to health care, goes to pensions, goes to public sector salaries. Most of the budget goes to three important sectors. There are three important sectors we can claim to be without reform in the three years of the government's work. There's no reform in the pension system. In fact, new pensioners with huge problems, with 600 kuna behind their average pensions. What is also important is the pension system with imposes, with taxes on disease and not with reforms and of course the public sector huge, many people and citizens of economies unhappy and at the same time low wages in the public sector. There is no reform and that is what characterizes the third most important year of this government's mandate. And something else is characteristic, the growth rates that slide down. 3.8, 3.6, battle to succeed in the next three years at least project 4%. I doubt the results so far can be secured. But the biggest tragedy is that it's a visible result of a lower growth rate, 300 thousand unemployed in three years. We don't see a significant reduction in the unemployed. Also, of course such a low growth rate does not provide money for reforms, so it is a problem to implement reforms without money that development does not provide. There is no investment in energy, there is no investment in institutions that will encourage the Croatian economy to export, which will boost competitiveness of both Croatian products and Croatian services. There is no investment in science that can simply give people, quality people to implement reforms in the Croatian economy. And of course, another one with this budget. 4.1%) inflation, an inflation that means cost growth, which means that this kind of cost of life will not be able to catch up with either salary or pension. Simply, inflation that must intimidate us, especially our citizens who fear it. And then that's the final finding. We estimate that most Croatian citizens live hard. Two thousand and 600 will live even harder. This comes from the macroeconomic sizes shown in these budgets and the inadequate moves of the Croatian government that are seen through this budget. So most citizens in 2006 will live even harder. This is a message for 600,000 pensioners who have a lower pension than the average, for 600,000 workers who have a lower salary than the average, but also for those pensioners who have a pension of 826, which is an average pension of which they cannot live. There is also a clear reason, then, that because of these findings in the 2006 budget, the SDP Club will not support the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48750	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48751	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister! The government of the Republic of Croatia and Prime Minister Sanader are here in the third financial year. Meanwhile, we have received negotiations on accession to the European Union, but we have not yet received a strategy for Croatia's development. We also received no significant pre-election promise from the government or HDZ on tax reform. It is tragic that we have received one silent budget rebalance in progress if it is true that there will be a redistribution of some billions and 500 million kunas in the current budget. And we got another number of 300 thousand unemployed who showed up back a few weeks and apparently has a tendency not to go to 200 grand but to stay at that level. In the debates we had here, it was put into conflict between the former and the current government because obviously the former government is guilty even after three years when there are no other arguments. She's guilty of moving her development rate from negative 0.9 to 4 and 5%, and apparently this new government has won the election on promises that from these 4 or 5 will come to 6 or 7% of what we all expect. Definitely, by projection of this budget we stay at 4%. We at the HSS Club have proposed a conclusion which I hope you will support which we oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver to us within 30 days, meaning to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Because we haven't discussed the budget strategy that has already been adopted or which are also in the process have no developmental character. They are adapted to current political opportunities and needs. This is why the development rate and the planned trend are currently being around 4%, unemployment is the same and capital investment is being made exclusively in infrastructure. What else would be done when we don't have a strategy. We believe that capital investments should be directed into industry, agriculture, tourism and thus increase employment and thus increase production and exports. Of course, we must also take care of the even development of all regions in Croatia. This is particularly important because the Republic of Croatia has started negotiations on joining the European Union without the adoption of a development strategy or a starting point for negotiations when entering Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48752	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HSLS, DC and LS, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48753	Dear Mr. Vice President, honorary ministers with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues! No matter what the club and the individual debate, we have declared that the club LS, DC and HSLS will vote for this budget, it still does not mean that we do not have certain objections or better to say some suggestions that should indeed help Croatia to overcome all these diseases of a late transition. What we were pleased with is that this government is clear that Croatia cannot develop only around Zagreb and that as much as possible to develop all parts of the Republic of Croatia more evenly, and that in some way we Parliamentarians should have this necessary feeling that some times it is better to have some spaces, cities and parts of Croatia more this year as well as there is certainly a greater possibility that next year someone else should come in line and that we really balance what is clearly evident now, and that there is indeed one, the rich part of Croatia and that there is that part of Croatia that still cannot catch the rhythm, and indeed there are resources and there are all assumptions that it really does happen. I have here the last statistical data. That's the difference in the average salary to the county. It is probably not going to be seen, but it is really visible that the city of Zagreb and Zagreb County is a front-end, that there is almost 22% of the salary in Zagreb is higher than elsewhere, in Zagreb County around 14% and Krapina-Zagorska 4.4, and this is becoming more and more equal to something little Istrian and slightly higher and then let's say Osijek-Baranjska, Sisak-Moslavačka there is somewhere moving but what concerns it is Požeška, Virovitička, Bjelovarska, Vukovar, Sibenik, Brod-Posavska. These are the counties that are significantly lagging behind these counties that are slightly better standing. And that's certainly, we who deal with politics that we need to do everything to really get between the Inga and through the Budget, try to create this conjecture of this one balanced development. That's not gonna happen. So I say these are ours, these suggestions. If, in fact, if our economic doctrine is not reconsidered and if we really think that all our problems can be solved by public works in infrastructure, personal consumption or one excessive, excessive imports which, obviously in some way, the Croatian economy narrows down, puts it in a more inferior position. So, first of all, obviously everything needs to be done to make the export. Somewhere, I don't remember exactly, in the 1990s it is in Copenhagen and, the members of the European Union have concluded: "There is no entry, no real entry into the European Union if the economies of other countries which are now candidates cannot become competitive on the European market. And that is what we think is really the only point and that Croatia must ask for, as well, its place for its, its economy, its products to be competitive there, and in fact it is the only purpose of creating this European family that we can, then, play by the rules that apply to everyone, rather than constantly being in a subordinate position. The same privatisation that is coming must be controlled, it must be socially sensitive, and indeed some indicators show that those countries that have been a little more cautious with the entry of foreign capital have passed better. Before, you see, this foreign capital has been mastered by us and finance through the banks. Through it, lords and slaves. The masters and, in fact, our market and our masters at the end and the labour market. And I have repeatedly pointed out from this place that correlation between entering foreign capital and ours, and increased or unemployment that in some way cannot, in any way, reduce it. Because apparently foreign capital still has one single goal, and that is actually to make profits, and it doesn't, it doesn't matter to him to invest in the development of the Croatian economy and actually hire people here. I think that again there must be wisdom to really prevent this buying of social peace rather than just what I say, this privatisation to be controlled, to see what we can keep in our hands and what it really is to prevent us from being, to come into an unspeakable and semi-colonial position in relation to other these developed members of the European Union. Here's what I'm saying, I'm saying these suggestions and I'm saying it again. Our vote goes for this budget right out of these some yet indicators that show that let's have a slight optimism. You don't need to be overly optimistic. [[Thank you very much.]] And to believe that next year and these, these remarks will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48754	Thank you, thank you very much. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker will speak briefly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48755	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's after 19 and a half hours of very bile and dynamic debate I hope this 19 and a half hours of information that we're all going to agree on is like that. Obviously, in this debate we had every vision but on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia I thank those who supported the Budget. I also thank you for the discussion of those who have sent critical tones to the budget and who have made it clear that they will not support the budget. So thank you all. Maybe a little debate was dynamic in certain moments but it's always like that when it comes to the Budget and it's a normal thing. If it weren't for that, it probably wouldn't be good. So thank you very much to both the right and the middle and left sides of this assembly. And I hope that this budget will be carried out as proposed. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, of course, I didn't think we were gonna see each other, but this one, in the last 19 and a half hours. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48756	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I had an intention on behalf of the HDZ Club to discuss it for five minutes, but I'm not being replaced here. I wanted to, I just wanted to say that neither are good general disqualifications nor are some... That's a good one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's about reality. The pessimists and the catastrophics have no right. Convinced, moderate optimism is reality and even in connection with this Budget, this Budget, so I'm joining the Minister as well. I thank all of us because they are also the fiercest critics and those who have praised have actually helped us to come to a real situation and that this budget that we will adopt after the Government has been shown to the amendments is passed in this House and that it will be... You can have the amendments by 12 o'clock tomorrow. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, it's not short. [[Intruder: Short.]] How's the short one? We have two days to write the amendments and even after the debate by 12 o'clock tomorrow. Well, I don't know, is it such a small time that you can't write an amendment? I think that's real. The amendments are due tomorrow to 12 o'clock. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48757	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. We are now going to the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. Debate and vote on amendments. The debate on the proposal for a text on, the draft budget is over. We are moving on to the applicant's statement and the vote on the amendments tabled. The amendments submitted shall be made by the Proposer. Only the applicant of the amendment may be referred to after the submission of the amendment to the applicant. Its speech cannot last longer than two minutes as provided for in Article 168. Rules of Procedure. The amendment provides for a special voting method for the Rules of Procedure. If it is obvious that the amendment has not received the required number of votes by the majority, then it is not voted against or abstention but is immediately determined that the amendment has not received the required majority only if it is controversial then it goes to the vote. Please, we have a table of amendments. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go. Amendment 1 to the respected representative, Nenad Stazic. [[/Agreement: Amendment?]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48758	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government does not accept for reasons other than the increase of 54% as provided for in the Budget this year, and the funds at the position of 3 thousand 238 computer services amounting to EUR million and 75 000 and for the implementation of the project of parliamentary television million and 400,000 kuna and finally, and ultimately, these funds exceed the amount proposed by Mr. Representative in his amendment. We therefore believe that the total proposed funds are far above the proposed amendment and therefore the normal thing to do is that we cannot accept the amendments because the adoption of the amendment would generally reduce these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48759	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48760	Dear Ministers, you would not reduce funds because the amount of 2 million 580,000 would be increased to 4 million 580,000. That means first, it's for 2 million more than you... It turns out to you that more is because you included this project of constituency television. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this is not about increasing money for the parliamentary television, it is about informing the Croatian Parliament. When you look at what these representative benches look like, you see this pile of paper, a bunch of material. There is a clean memory of the less forest for each session of the Parliament, instead of moving on to a normal work that is possible to organise and which the government itself has organised for the previous term. And the funds are projected to be removed from the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the restoration of the rolling stock. We're all witnesses, the government recently restored the fleet, maybe it had to do it, maybe not so expensive cars, but well, it restored the fleet, so now that it's restored, there's no need to rebuild it. Because the government doesn't think now and those new cars are replacing some more recent ones. Therefore, in the interest of this Parliament, in the interest of improving the quality of its work, I ask for a vote, I expect the MPs to support that it will enable us all to do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48761	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Secondly,...... Please, so we vote, I said, according to article 229, so let's vote manually because it's far faster because according to the article,... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? ... as referred to in Article 229 of the Treaty on the [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The Rules of Procedure shall, please, exceptionally from the provision of paragraph 4 of this Article, if, when voting on the amendment for its adoption, a declaration of less than half of the present representatives is made, the Chair may immediately conclude that the amendment has been rejected. So if we agree to vote this way...... We'll vote manually. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. Let's go to the second amendment of the respected representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48762	Mr. President, the government does not accept the funds provided for, and since the previous amendment also provides for the withdrawal of car supplies, it would practically be spent with the previous amendment. And the other thing is, it's not overlooked in next year buying new cars for the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48763	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48764	Thank you very much. If you're not planning to buy new cars for the government, then why do you need that item in the budget of 3 or 3 and a half million kuna? You have rejected the previous amendment, so the money is available for now, when we vote on this amendment and this amendment can be accepted because the money has not been downloaded by the first amendment. And now you're saying that you've provided sufficient funds for the compensation of the well-deserved citizens. Well, you're not ministers. You have 200 convictions, you'll have to pay for it. You've got 200 convictions of that already 15 of them, they're going to go to work, it's going to be a court decision removed from your account. And I'm just wondering, why don't you plan on doing the most normal thing right now, and why do you think these well-deserved citizens, look, they're artists and scientists, people who owe their work to the country, and today there's no legal obligation to pay them the fees that the law pays...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48765	Minister Shuker, I warn you. For the last time, don't comment on the representative. You can answer when giving an introductory explanation why you accept or do not accept the amendment and that is all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48766	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But you took some of my time along with Minister Schooker and his pitching. So you'll have to pay for it. You'll have to pay for it in court terms. I'm telling you, you already have 200 convictions. You'll have more. It'll be removed from your account by the end of the day. In this way, you are putting our citizens in a position to sue their country because it does not pay them its fees provided by law. They're protected by law. Therefore, I ask you nicely to pay for it in a peaceful procedure. Accept the amendment, pay them off, you won't have to in court judgments, and you won't have those people-deserved artists, scientists to sue their own state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48767	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the need for most of it. Third, representative of Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48768	The government does not accept for the reason that the development of civil society is financed through the National Foundation for Civil Society Development from the revenue from gambling. And those funds provided in those positions will be quite enough for this, although, to be clear, far from investing for the development of civil society. However, given the budgetary possibilities, I believe that these funds will be sufficient in the budget next year. If there's a chance and there's more to be singled out, more will stand out.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48769	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48770	Mr. Minister, it's really weird that you're cutting from last year's budget. In fact, there you gave 2 million 134 thousand and 500 kuna. And now you're reducing it by 279 thousand and 500 kuna. I really need to ask myself why these 500 kunas. To be cynical. I mean, it's actually about a sum that's not big. Let's get out of the games of chance, etc. it is funded as previously funded, but this government symbolically shows its relationship to the development of civil... /The speaker has turned off, and has re-enabled./... which is bad for Croatia's image. Because really, if we cut this small amount, the development of civil society, I don't know what kind of message we're sending to the world. Here, that's why I insist on voting on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48771	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fourth, Alenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48772	The government does not accept for reasons why it considers that the budget resources provided are sufficient for the normal functioning of the internal audit and the offices and bodies of the public authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48773	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48774	Thank you, Mr. Minister. However, I disagree that the funds are sufficient. In fact, these very days we are witnessing very frequent contract conclusions by various units, which locally, which other authorities, directly and directly contracted, and I think it is necessary for the revision and internal control to be significantly strengthened in order to make better use of our taxpayers' funds. I demand a vote on this amendment. I mean, we're witnessing specifically the work of Peljesac, the Peljesac Bridge. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48775	Thank you. Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The Fifth Amendment, also representing Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48776	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons that, in addition to the above mentioned funds, in 2006, the CARDS funding for the human trafficking of people amounting to 2 million and 600 thousand kuna was provided. Therefore, in addition to this position provided for in the budget, the CARDS funds of the 2 million and 600,000 kuna programme are still foreseen. So the funds in this position that you've given the amendment is the CARDS program's resources are sufficient because it's working at a total amount of 3 million and 295 thousand kuna and these funds are far higher than this amount that you've proposed by the amendment. For 2 million kunas, they're almost higher.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48777	Thank you. I also agree with your argument that it's $3 million and it could be about giving up the amendment. However, I couldn't read it from this transparent budget, so that's why in this particular position I asked for an increase in funds because I simply don't believe that in this Western Balkans, where human trafficking is so common and these are sufficient resources for us to restrain them. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48778	Thank you very much. Amendment number five withdrawn. Six, MPs Mato Arlovic. ... Did you say vote? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, I heard the other one. Who's for that amendment number five? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number six, MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48779	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that for 2006 the funds are in position A508-015, compensation for the responsible persons provided by the foundation of a solution of the administrative commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and cannot be reduced. For this reason, since if the Administrative Commission has designated and requested that amount, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide that amount in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48780	Dear Representative Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48781	We don't mind the Ministry of Finance and the government's position that money can't be taken off this item, but it can be done by someone else, let the ministry decide. However, our amendment goes primarily in this direction to increase the amount of funds to protect and promote and respect human rights from a million and 550,000 to 5 million kuna. This is very important not only for the development of civil society and, in particular, associations dealing with this problem, but also for the fact that in this situation, these associations compete in front of the relevant or appropriate European Union funds for the withdrawal of additional funds that the European Union should give for this purpose and for this purpose and for the development of projects. That is why they need to be given increased funds, and we suggest that the position change however and that this amendment be accepted. The vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48782	Thank you very much. The vote. I'd like all MPs to make it clear in the end that they're voting, that they're looking for it. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48783	The 7th amendment of the honourable MPs is completely identical to the previous amendment only to predicting the removal from only one position. Therefore, for the same reason that the decision of the Administrative Commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia provides for funds for the compensation of the persons who deserve it and that position simply cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48784	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48785	Thank you very much. It would emphasize the importance of NGOs in our society, especially by forming such a civilized environment as we are. I think that the funds provided are far below what NGOs would need to carry out their activities, and as far as other positions hidden in this budget are concerned, the funds as they were in that amendment that you gave me the last explanation. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48786	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8th Amendment of Representatives Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48787	The government does not accept because the funds are secured from the CARDS programme. So, in addition to these funds that are in this position for which Mrs MPs and Mrs. MPs have given an amendment to the position of the CARDS programme is still provided, therefore, for the fight against drug trafficking and drug abuse of 2 million kunas. So basically when these two positions are summed up then the amount secured in the budget is far higher than that proposed by the amendment. And otherwise, the CARDS program is particularly explained in the text section because the budget is explained by the activities. Therefore, the budget appropriations are above the resources proposed by this amendment. They're only secured in two positions, and the CARDS program is one continuity and the former and this government. Therefore, these are programs that take place in continuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48788	Representative, Vice President Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48789	As far as the total funds are concerned, they're much bigger. I completely agree, Mr. Minister, with you. For this position, however, the promotion and information service for the fight to combat drug abuse, for the management of such a media campaign, 300 thousand kuna is absolutely too little and it certainly cannot meet the needs of our current situation in the Republic of Croatia. It is very important to provide a media campaign and educational content that should ensure the fight for the control and abuse of intoxicating drugs, not only for young people but also for the rest of the population. For a simple reason, because the monster has deeply affected the Republic of Croatia and should be made to the fullest extent possible to correct it. I therefore propose to increase these funds in this item, and of course such an increase actually allows the media project for media combat and to report to the CARDS programme to be added, and to provide additional funding from the CARDS funding programme by the European Union. That is why we propose, Minister, that you reconsider and accept that amendment. If not, then the vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48790	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 9. Alenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48791	The amendment is completely identical. So, the CARDS program is along with 300 thousand kuna which is secured at the position of the CARDS program is secured another 2 million and 199 thousand 995 kuna. Which is nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand kuna more than is proposed by the amendment, and therefore the Government cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48792	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48793	Thank you. I'd just warn Mr. Minister, you're probably a witness to the very common situations that drugs leave in our society. Cities such as Split, Zadar, Pula, Varazdin, Zagreb and Osijek, etc., young people, young generations are exposed to drugs even more, especially since the Age of Homeland War. I think this item that was proposed here to finance the promotion against the use and harmful use of intoxicating drugs is far too small. Is there somewhere, as you say, more funds are provided in the CARDS, then the CARDS must be one hand of the world that shares the money either way. I don't see, however, that from last year to this year, the number of people who do drugs has dropped in this country. Therefore, it seems to me that these funds are far below what is necessary. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48794	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10th, MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48795	It is not accepted for the reason that the PHARE programme provides 187,000 and 500 kuna for the gender equality community programme. Therefore, these funds are secured in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48796	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48797	It's just not true. If you analyze a little why you have provided precisely for this purpose of promoting, knowledge and awareness of gender equality, it is precisely to make these programs for which you have allocated this money that you are talking about effective. In fact, in order to be able to spend time with people, in our population, this campaign has been carried out by our citizens, not so intensely, but with certain means still being implemented in recent years. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48798	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11 also MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48799	The government does not accept the amendment because since the training of civil servants and deputies is on the move for the first time in 2006 only the projected funds will be sufficient for the first year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48800	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48801	Those funds, the appropriations, or the resources provided for in this amount, will not be sufficient for you. If we only do a parallel when a few years ago when we started with Centro for the education of judges and judicial officials who are far away, far less than civil servants and tenants have shown a truly symbolic amount in the first year. Therefore, you cannot say with this amount that in the first year at all, that is to say, we started with the education of civil servants and tenants when we know how much, especially in the last year, and already more, for a year and a half, the administration of the state. And often exactly the government's programme stands out in the government's programme that, as education of civil servants and deputies is just "condicio son qua non" any meaningful reform of the state administration. Therefore, with this amount, there is no reform of the state administration. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48802	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 12, also represented by Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48803	Amendment 12 provides for the completion of what the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not predict in 2006, which is the restoration of the rolling stock. The government therefore considers that in 2006 as regards the central office, the State Administration Office should not renew the rolling stock and therefore did not provide for funds for the position.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48804	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48805	Here you see, it has already been pointed out here that the government has renovated its own rolling stock, which would not be declared here or commented, but the state administration needs vehicles. You can imagine when a civil servant, i.e. an inspector goes to an old "renault 4 to prey on someone's property or something to apply, any provision, any law where that address, or where it came from, I don't know of the "mercedes", "toyote" and so on. How can it even be with the citizens... a luxury car, but something suitable for the state service, and this train has not been restarted for years and years. [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48806	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13th Amendment of the Honorable Representative, Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48807	The government doesn't accept it for the reason we believe that the funds... In 2006, he expects that, given the amendments to the Income Tax Act, the revenues of the local self-government units will be significantly higher than they were in 2005. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48808	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48809	Well, by not accepting the 13th Amendment, although I was hoping that the figures would at least accept it, I think you're saying that there will be nothing since decentralisation in 2006 and that the Law on Local Self-Government will not apply. I remind you that you sent instructions to the mayors, mayors, mayors how to draft the 2006 budget and the 2007 projections, in 2008 where you said there would be changes in the funding system, you did not say that it would come exactly where you predicted how much income and profit tax increases should be planned, and that this is the only item that increased by 1.69%, and I suggest that it increase to what you in the 2005 budget were foreseen as a projection of the 2006 budget. Since one billion kunas in this year will not be enough in the Fund to pay for decentralised functions by the end of the year, but probably 11 and 12 months will be transferred next year, it is obvious that billions and 200 will not be enough in the next year and this is talking about going towards further centralization of the state against what the decorative government stands for, and that is to go to the second step of decentralisation. Therefore, this Budget does not foresee that units of local self-government will be able to implement the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which we adopted 10 days ago, nor that it will be able to ensure the functioning of decentralised functions at the level of 2005. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48810	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14th Representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48811	The government doesn't accept for two reasons. First of all, because for this government, the development of a state treasure system is one of the priority projects and we cannot accept the proposal that the funds provided for the development and completion of individual modules in the Treasury, that these funds are reduced, because the state treasure is indeed one of the priorities, not only of these, but certainly of each government, and another thing about helping Croatian minorities at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations to the activity and assistance of national minorities abroad is foreseen by a million and a half kuna. So one is the reason from the position from which it is projected with a smaller asset, which is simply unacceptable for this government, and the other is that these funds are secured in another position.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48812	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48813	Minister, I can't be surprised by your answer. I honestly believed that you would accept this. You have even predicted a million-and-a-half kuna by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to assist Croats in other countries, those whose mouth was filled with the need to help Croats in other countries. The former Ivica Racan coalition government predicted to assist Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina 25 million kuna and 10 million kuna to help Croats in other countries, and now you have reduced those 10 million to a million and a half, and you say that you are generously helping. Because you didn't predict the funds for last year and you didn't pay me. The Croatian academic society in Subotica couldn't even get minimum funding to continue the issue of lexicons of Vojvodina Croats and had to suspend the project because you didn't send them money, and when they came for money in Zagreb, you said there was no such money because they weren't foreseen in the budget. I now foresee the item, please enter the item at least as much as Racan's government, 10 million kuna for them. She gave, she had planned, you refuse to do it and you claim that a million and a half kuna is enough for them. Well, I'm calling, I'm going to watch how the HDZ MPs vote, Mrs. Babić Petricevic, watch you vote for it. Are you in favour of helping Croats in neighbouring countries with 10... Or you'll consider it. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Don't shut me out, Mrs. Babic. Or you'll think as well as your minister that for them a million and a half kuna is quite enough, I'm very interested. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48814	Please, don't mention your colleague Stazic to other MPs, invite them all together. Take your stand, don't invite MPs in this way you do it, it's causing one atmosphere again. Peace, please. Who's for this amendment please? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15. Representatives Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48815	This 15th amendment, as well as most of the amendments to the previous, unfortunately, has not been implemented in all positions. In addition to the funds referred to for purposes at the position of the Ministry of Finance, funds were still provided at the position of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for the University of Mostar of 15 million, and at the Ministry of Health and Social Care for the hospital in Mostar 18 million and a total of 33 million kuna, and probably not all the positions as in the previous amendment were seen by the representatives, and therefore they submitted an amendment to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48816	Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48817	First of all, I must say thank you to the Minister for repeating this information, we have seen these data, but regardless of them we propose this amendment for the reason that we have provided here not only for the hospital in Mostar and for the University of Mostar, but also for... , for Matica Croatia in Herzegovina, the cultural art society "Renaissance", the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar as well as the second, and by this second, we think of world and sacral content that should be restored and which should enable them to work qualityly and continue their work in the Bosnian Posavina, and let's say in the construction of a cathedral church in Mostar which you know among other things that she had to seek donations to restore the organ she received in a donation so that she could install them in that church. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] That is why we propose that these funds increase and that this amendment be adopted and we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48818	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16th Representative of Bozidar Pankretić, Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48819	The amendment is not accepted by the Government for the reason that a year in advance it is impossible to predict what kind of an elemental disaster would be, they would be larger or smaller, so the Government proposes a sum of 20 million kuna if God did not give greater harm the government has other instruments to compensate for the elemental damage to those who suffered damage due to the elemental disasters.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48820	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48821	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, of course we want there to be no natural disasters at all, and with the increase in funds in this item we do not cause no God-given some elemental disaster, but it has been confirmed so far as we have suggested in the rebalancing that those 6 million kunas that were proposed in the budget last year and it was worth this year that it wasn't enough. And it's evident that we couldn't help our farmers because of the damage they had this year since the flood. What's positive is that you've increased that item by realizing this year, and that means that we were right almost six times as accurately. But I have to say that the problem we had this year was that the government, for example, when it was in Slavonski Brod or when it was in Međimurje, was not a measure that was transparent. We have a commission that determines with regard to the overall procedures of committees from municipalities, cities, counties, etc. to this last part and we think that this 10 million kuna increase is quite realistic in that part to avoid any I would say reaching into a reserve held by the Government of the Republic of Croatia rather than trying to sow enough funds in that part and everyone in any way pray to God that there are no elementary disasters and that we won't need to allocate these funds to them. But when they do, then it should certainly be in a way that we have the means to do so, so here's what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48822	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority, the 17th MP, Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48823	Just as an explanation for the previous amendment, I must point out that the government cannot accept the proposal to reduce the grant in shipyards in view of the situation and situation in Croatian shipyards.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48824	Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48825	I am also on the point that it is therefore more important to increase the compensation for damages from natural disasters. A year ago, she was six million kunas and now they're rising to 20 million kunas. I suggest that it be 60 million kunas because unfortunately we are witnessing that these damages are growing dramatically year after year, that there are no more millions or tens of millions of kunas but hundreds of millions of kunas a year, so damage is achieved on different grounds from floods, beatings, etc. Well, only in my County of Međimurje was there about 20 million damages this year, seven to eight million were from the flood on the Mura River. So there were several storms in Međimurje so I think that even if these funds are increased they won't be enough to compensate for the damage, the same thing that was said must be at all times so we're ready to help people who have been killed in elemental disasters and this is not about days often but also about hours, so to repair these damages. So I think that in the budget we must always have enough resources available to help these people. So, I suggest that funds be raised and therefore I suggest that votes be voted and I ask support for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48826	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18th Representatives Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48827	The government doesn't accept. And allow me a bit of a broader explanation with this amendment. Therefore, aid to local self-government units from the state budget is defined by the Law on the implementation of the budget with a clear and precise methodology for how this is calculated. So it starts with the fiscal capacity of local self-government units based on the implementation of the 2004 budget. The next important factor is population density and density coefficient. Based on this, aid to local self-government units is calculated, however, it should be noted that 225 units of local self-government regulated by the Law on areas of special state care in mountain-mounted areas annually on behalf of paid income tax and profit tax, which is therefore the basis of these laws, the Government of the Republic of Croatia direct concessions to local self-government units and local self-government units receive a billion and 200 million kuna annually. I would also like to point out that, since 2004, income tax returns and profits have not been made with the jury accounts of these 225 units of local self-government located in areas of special state concern but are carried out directly from the state budget. So, when all these units of local self-government are summed up, then it's 225 units or total funds that will in this way be focused and not seen in the budget because it goes directly to the jury accounts of those local self-government units in 2005 will be close to a billion and 300 million kuna. And especially the city of Vukovar gets special funding from the state budget. Under the Law on the City of Vukovar, the funds amounted to 25.5 million in 2004, will be close to 40 million in 2005. Thus, with these funds provided for in the state budget, another billion and 300 million kunas go to local self-government units in the areas of special state care and the city of Vukovar and local self-government units that have the status of mountain-mounted areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48828	Vice-President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48829	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for explaining all these sources of income received by local self-government units. And about the Law on the City of Vukovar and about the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and the Law on areas of special state care. The fact is that the former coalition government led by Ivica Racan proposed most of these laws and that they were adopted in the Croatian Parliament. The fact is that according to these laws, a lot of funding belongs to local self-government units in these areas, but it is also a fact that, unfortunately, units of local self-government or better said their counties are very much lagging behind in the development of the national gross product in the Republic of Croatia compared to the number of inhabitants in relation to the most developed Republic of Croatia and that it is also impossible in fact not to stimulate the development of these regions by additional means that they are brought into an equal legal position and the possibility to develop equally with other parts of the Republic of Croatia. And of course, at the same time they contribute to the development of the whole of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, we have proposed the first increase in these funds, which is otherwise foreseen in the budget for the city of Lipik from 407,000 per million kuna and for the city of Pakrac million kuna, which has been completely left out as an area that has suffered and been destroyed and we propose that this part be adopted. That is why I propose that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48830	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19th also representing Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48831	Mr. President, with the conclusion that I am based on these three laws, one billion and 300 million kuna are directed towards units of special care, it should also be added that from decentralised funds a billion and 200 million annually is directed towards units of local and regional regional self-government for financing and co-financing of primary and secondary education. And what is very important is that the funds mentioned in the Regional Development Fund are precisely intended for units that have weaker or lower fiscal power as aid for the development of municipal infrastructure and, in general, for the development of infrastructure as one of the basic preconditions for faster and easier economic development, and these funds are precisely used in the areas of those units that have been destroyed by war and where their complete economic infrastructure has been destroyed. So, with these funds that I have said with three sources, we still have the Regional Development Fund from which it is financed and what is very important to note for such units of local self-government are essentially grants. And we still have a Fund for Development and Employment which is far more favourable loans, helping to rebuild businesses from these areas. And even after we add to this the funds that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, based on a grant from the state budget of 600 million kuna, gives more favourable loans for areas with special state concerns where these companies can receive loans at 2% interest rate. So this is a series of incentives that are given precisely for these areas and for these cities, only cities should have projects, the funds have, and then they can certainly be obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48832	Representative, vice president, Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48833	I must say that we insist on this amendment and remain when it comes to the ongoing assistance of the city of Ilock just for the sake of municipal infrastructure and for the arrangement of certain premises in the city of Ilock which unfortunately, with all these facts the minister spoke of did not receive funds last year so that the project for example of editing... which is inside itself... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which is within the city of Ilock, then the issue of municipal infrastructure in the narrow centre of the city is practically standing and should be provided for additional funds, here we propose an increase of these funds by only one million kuna and we propose a vote on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48834	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20. Also represented by Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48835	The government cannot, therefore, accept from all the 5.6 sources I mentioned in the explanation of the previous two amendments when we talk about the city of Vukovar, the hero city, then it should also be noted that the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance last year concluded a research and reconstruction contract for the historical cores of Vukovar and Ilock in total amount of 700 and something else, 700 million kuna, therefore, is a joint credit co-financed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a loan from the World Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48836	Representative Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48837	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is precisely this part of the financing of cultural sites, i.e. archaeological sites in the area of Vukovar and the city of Ilock, which is actually credited with loans. But it is trying to finance and ensure that the national wealth that is of national importance is actually made possible and protected in, in these areas on behalf of and for the interest of the Republic of Croatia. However, you know when the city of Vukovar is mentioned as a hero city and the current aid of the general state, the local self-government unit for doing the work itself from the municipal infrastructure, that if you want from general administration to social protection, then 3631 kuna is placed in that section. Then it's a little sad, regardless of what... the criteria the minister spoke of, but I think that these are precisely the criteria that show, and these are the ones that are completely insufficient to see the overall situation and the weight of the problem in which one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The local self-government finds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We all know that the city is a city destroyed, that it is a city in complete recovery, and it is necessary to actually come from every source of additional funding and assistance to the city of Vukovar, so we suggest that this amount be increased to at least one million and 500 thousand kuna. Thank you very much. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48838	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21st Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48839	The government does not accept for the reason that the Law on Areas of Special State Care has given the city of Glina 10 times more than the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48840	There's no representative. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 22. Representatives Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48841	So the same explanation as the previous foundation of the Law on Areas of Special State Care, the town of Okucani, in fact the municipality of Okucani received far more funds than is provided for in this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48842	Representative Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48843	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. You know... Amendment, Pakrac, Lipik, Vukovar, Okucani, all our cities in Eastern Slavonia, Western Srijem and Western Slavonia, which have been killed and destroyed by war, which need not only the restoration of municipal infrastructure but the entire life and economy in their own areas, but at the same time the assistance of a country of such minimality, we feel that this is simply wrong and we feel it is necessary to show greater concern for regional development, especially for the development of the war of the affected areas by the central government, so, the state of the Republic of Croatia, for this reason, we are firmly staying with this amendment and are asking to vote on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that by revoted this amendment will be rejected but we must say that the problems in the cities of Vukovar, Okucani, Pakrac, Lipik, Iloku will not fall away and Croatia, the central government will not be able to... of this question without seeing another fact that is slowly defeated for all of us and actually from these cities, mostly from the city of Ilock, which is the border city of our citizens go and supply themselves to a neighbouring country, among other things because it is more favourable and beneficial for them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we need to take care of these things and insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48844	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 23. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48845	So the government doesn't accept for reasons like... in the previous amendments, to base the Law on areas of special state care, the state has waived the share of income tax and profit tax of €1 billion and €300 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd also like to point out that 2003. 90% of these units in the area of special state care were blocked by giro accounts in the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th months because of their giro-accounts' return to income tax. In 2004, by virtue of the Law on Budgetary Implementation, Article 33 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on the implementation of the state budget of income tax from a unit from a specific state concerned no longer carries out with their giro account but from the state of the Treasury, therefore, and this is another form of assistance to local self-government units. And that assistance must be a few times larger than is foreseen in this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48846	Dear representative Ljubica Lalic, on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48847	Thank you. Mr. Minister, this amendment proposes to add a new item, Galovac municipality belonging to a million-and-a-half kuna amount, and your argument is completely inappropriate, and the amendment refers to the explanation, the colony project for the sculptures and the clerics in Galovac's flat-out settlement is one of the few projects adopted by the European Union, and the Galovac municipality consumes and support the European Union in the project. Due to the failure to meet the obligations of the Municipality of Galovac, according to the Institute of Health Insurance and Pension Insurance, caused by the non-detectable funds for the salaries of developed defenders since September 2004 by the state, there has been... The giro-accounts of the Municipality of Glaovac, which has caused major financial difficulties, so the project cannot be completed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As it is an archaeological site and the project contributes to the development of the Municipality of Galovac, co-financing by the state is needed and therefore we have proposed a solution through this amendment. Unfortunately, you did not recognize the importance of the project, you did not recognize the specificity of Galovac municipality, your explanation is totally unacceptable and therefore we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48848	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24th Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48849	The government does not accept for reasons why units of local self-government which require state aid for the production of spatial project documentation are provided at the position of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and any units of local self-government can compete for those funds in the jurisdiction of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48850	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48851	Thank you very much. It is just a matter of helping local self-government in the context of spatial plans and all those planning documents as a prerequisite for the development of especially those municipalities that have managed in some way in these few years to build and become a strong foundation for their citizens such as the Muč municipality. The lack of planning documentation is unfortunately difficult to look for in the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection for the reasons that these funds are primarily intended for spatial plans... However, a lower order radio plan, i.e. a plan to define the work area as a prerequisite for economic development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it was therefore considered that from the position of the Ministry of Finance as much as it could be provided it was welcome because these funds, as I said in other positions, were practically allocated.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48852	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 25th Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48853	The Government does not accept amendments for the simple reason that a clearly prescribed methodology for calculating the aid to local self-government units should this amendment be accepted then the methodology for calculating aid to local self-government units would be violated. It would also injure the State budget law where the method and methodology for calculating aid to local self-government units is defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48854	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48855	So on these items, the ongoing aid within the general state that applies to counties from year to year is reduced, here's a third year in a row. And I'm here asking to increase funds for Krapina-Zagorian County. It's one of the underdeveloped but also the most densely populated counties. There are almost 120 inhabitants per square mile, slightly less than Međimurje. Average income per capita is only 930 kuna. The vast majority of these funds are used in municipalities to pave the way for unclassified roads that total about 3 and a half thousand kilometers. Forty more of them are unfalsified. I don't think there are such criteria that would thus reduce resources in these very environments. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48856	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26th Alenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48857	The government does not accept with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48858	There's no representative. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27th Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48859	The government does not accept for reasons why the funds to assist the Varazdin County as well as for these previous two counties are secured by the methodology defined by the Law on the implementation of the budget and any amendments to those funds, then the provision of the Law on the implementation of the budget and the methodology for the assistance of local self-government units is no longer unique and thus we violate the system to provide assistance to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48860	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48861	Well, I believe the methodology is correct, but the fact is that the Varazdin County has not received any help in the last two years. And I believe that with this amount of 633 thousand kuna counties, which unfortunately, at this point with the lowest personal income, has earned one more quality position in the budget and please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48862	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 28th Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48863	So as with previous amendments, there is a methodology for calculating aid in local self-government units. Two basic criteria are: fiscal capacity of local self-government units. Therefore, in 2004, the average population density is therefore two basic elements which account for aid in local self-government units and for this reason, Zadar County did not enter the criteria for granting aid by, from the State budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48864	There's no representative. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 29th representative of William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48865	The same criterion with the need to point out that all counties through funding, through other users of the State budget on average received between half a billion kuna and a billion kuna in 2006. This is only helping those units of local self-government so in this position that have less fiscal power. Therefore, under the same criteria as for the previous four counties that were in the previous four amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48866	Representative William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48867	Mr. Minister, it's a misunderstanding, but let me remind you before I may briefly remind you of a program that you too sign as finance minister and supported by the ruling majority. So it's a government programme, December 2003. In order to ensure a faster, simpler, cheaper and more efficient support system for small and medium-sized family economies, the Government plans to set up Agro Bank, encourage faster adaptation and more active role of the banking sector in the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and here I am finishing a quote, and you are certainly unusually familiar because if I had said the first letter, you would remember because you know your program. So the amendment was intended simply through the County of Osijek to encourage the establishment of Agro Bank. That's what this amendment is about. You obviously didn't, Mr. Minister, without wanting me to insult him, or even read him. But I've confirmed myself because I've been investing in the same amendment for the third year in a row. So it wouldn't surprise me at all now if I had the support of the ruling majority of HDZ and coalition partners, and I don't doubt the support of the opposition. Mr. Minister, I hope you don't mind, but I'm asking for a vote just in case.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48868	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 30th Representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48869	The government does not accept with the same explanation, therefore, there is a methodology for calculating aid to local self-government units. So as for the previous few amendments. The reason the government doesn't accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48870	Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48871	I don't get it now. Yes, there is a methodology but the 2004 budget has increased by nearly 20 billion kuna. From 80 billion to almost 100 billion this year. At the same time, there is a reduction of funds not only to the County of Međimurje but to all counties from 40 to 20 million kuna. What does that mean for the County of Međimurje? That she received three and a half million kunas in 2004. This year he gets a million-and-a-half kuna, so based on this law. At the same time, there was no increase in the average salary in Međimurje, which remains the smallest in Croatia and thus our budgets are also among the smallest in Croatia. As an example, the municipality of Domassinec, which has a budget of 2 million kuna, is an extraordinary tax revenue of only 500 thousand kuna. So everything else comes from the county, comes from the state. In this way our municipalities are not independent but dependant on higher instances. Therefore, I think that this should be changed and it would not be clear really that fact, so within 3 years, there has been an increase in the 20 billion budget, and at the same time there is a reduction in funds, total funds for all counties and so on for the County of Međimurje. This is why I ask that amendments be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48872	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Minister. We're going to the Home Office. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Amendment of 31st Representatives Mate Gavran and Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48873	Thank you very much. The government does not accept that amendment. The Ministry has a capital investment plan and we are aware that there are several police administrations or police station buildings that require either significant investments or the construction of completely new ones. Among them is the Brodsko-Posaviska Police Administration building and the Ministry is looking for funding models so that they can address not only one police administration but more police administrations and police stations at the same time. Because I say like I said, there are more problems. That is why we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48874	Thank you. Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48875	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, it is pleasant to hear that the Ministry has problems and this nature. Of course we know you have a plan, but we don't see when you'll realize that plan. For these reasons we have also submitted this amendment, and allow me to remind you of Brodo-Posavina County and the police administration is working under really difficult conditions. Not only is this a problem for police administration employees, it means for all citizens who are inevitably seeking any help or any activity they have in the police administration. It is noted that project documentation has been produced so far, that the city has donated construction land without compensation, fully built infrastructure and that more than 500 thousand kuna have been invested in the project documentation. I hold the inadmissible that the budget for next year should not include the construction of this police administration building. Because as far as we know, and especially to me, some other police administrations that haven't even started with project documentation, location and construction permits have already entered your ministry's project. I'd like to hear when you're going to put in and when that plan for the realisation of the ship's police administration will be resolved. We planned this year, and finally next year we open up that new police administration building. But here's what this looks like won't be for long. I'm looking for a vote. And I'm looking for backup, here's a special colleague from the position.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48876	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 32nd Amendment of Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48877	It's the same explanation. The amendment is denied with the explanation I said. With that, I repeat, we are aware of the problems with the buildings. And that 4 police administrations are critical, Brod-Posaviska, Virovitica-Podravska, Sisak-Moslavina and Lika-Senjska, and we are looking for funding models to start building these 4 police offices and some other police stations in other areas already next year. We are looking at the possibility of funding through leasing or through other funding models, and we are going to try to work out the next year of these four most critical police administrations. The amendment is denied.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48878	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48879	Well, I have to express regret that the model hasn't been found yet. Unfortunately, as in the case of Slavonski Brod, the City of Sisak has secured the land, all the necessary infrastructure, and it is truly a beautiful place and in agreement with the police. I don't want to say that we are more concerned about what conditions our police are doing than the ministry does, but we also care about our fellow citizens who really now at 5 locations in extremely inappropriate conditions meet their needs and I won't ask for a vote on this amendment by realizing that, as you said yourself, you will recognize it as a priority that at least a year behind that we are going to build a police administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48880	Thank you very much. That means the amendment has been withdrawn? Thank you. 33rd Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48881	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, management, protection and rescue funds are provided for the activities of different services within the Protection and Rescue Authority. Therefore, also for Croatia's mountain rescue service. That's why the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48882	Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48883	I can't accept this argument. Although we had already had a chance to hear from the government last night that no amendment would be accepted, but I was hoping that at least some exceptions would be made. So I was so hoping that the Mountain Rescue Service would come up with a name and a last name, because I can't accept what you said collectively that she was supposed to be here somewhere. It means that it will find its place somewhere in the Republic of Croatia's 2006 budget. She's got a folk's "Hope Is Save", so I hoped so, but it seems that saying for this government and this Parliament is not worth it. I was hoping that the more we know that last year, in this House, we passed the Protection and Rescue Act and the tasks that come out of it, the impossible is actually to implement without funds. The plan is to adopt, as I know, and the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service which is somewhere in the final stage of production. And I don't need to mention that it's actually a public need that is undoubtedly on the rise. The number of accidents and interventions is growing year after year and it is clear to all that without basic material resources, demanding tasks cannot be carried out to save human lives. And that's why I'm asking for this amendment to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48884	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're done with the Home Office. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, Deputy Prime Minister, Defence Minister, Family and Intergenerational Solidarity, Jadranka Kosor. Amendment of 34 MPs to the Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48885	The government does not accept this amendment. Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, the amendment concerns funds for the recruitment of Croatian defenders. As MPs and MPs know, we have increased these funds in the 2006 budget by 5 million kuna and are now worth 35 million kuna. So, the increase is 17%, and we are convinced that all the projects that we have predicted will succeed in that position, i.e. through the employment of Croatian defenders through 6 measures, thanks to the increased resources, I repeat, 17%. In this year, through various measures where the best measure was to establish and encourage the establishment of Croatian defenders' cooperatives, we, through measures and at the end of 2004 and in 2005, hired about 3 and a half thousand Croatian defenders and children who were killed, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, because employment measures also refer to those children. This makes 14% of the newly employed Croatian defenders and we think that we can implement all the programmes through increased funding in the following year. I repeat, the more some programs have proved particularly good, the more we will support the cooperative programme in the coming year, the more we will strengthen it. Here, this year we have supported the money to date, but also in various other ways to establish 18 cooperatives. We'll be waiting this week, or next week, signing a contract with another cooperative. And in the coming years, it's safe from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48886	Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48887	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister. No matter what the government has done and which has praised the number of unemployed Croatian defenders, unfortunately, has been growing for the second year. And you will agree that the best way of social integration of Croatian defenders is employment. And this increase as you say of 17% is actually a drop of a few dozen because a whole series of government measures have been abolished for the employment of Croatian defenders, as well as other groups in Croatian society. Therefore, the estimated amount of 35 million kuna will only contribute to a further increase in the unemployment of Croatian defenders, and especially if we know about the problems with the non-transparentity that you have in the ministry, which also testifys last year against your officials for taking bribes from the unemployed Croatian defenders. The proposed amount of 50 million kuna, of course, assuming legally their spending... /The speaker was turned off and subsequently turned on./... So the proposed amount... /The speaker went off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48888	Please be careful not to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48889	So, the 50 million kuna I am proposing and I am reading for the third time, assuming, of course, that their legal spending will be enough to stop this trend of the increase in the number of unemployed Croatian defenders, which I think we should all be interested in regardless of our opposition or position. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48890	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 35, MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48891	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment, referring to psychosocial aid to the victims of the Homeland War. I would like to remind the Croatian Parliament that on 3 February this year, the government has brought a new psychosocial health assistance programme to participants and victims of the Homeland War, a national programme that provides for several news and I believe that we have succeeded in this year through a year of implementation of this programme to prove that it is very effective. I'll give you some information. In 2004, we had over 150,000 interventions through our PSP centers, this year in six months over 66,000. This programme, of course, is shown well and through the fact that we have created PSP centres in a new way, so we have made it possible to hire experts constantly, so those who will be able to really help the victims and participants from the Homeland War at all times. This system is still being perfected, and I am quite sure that, just next year, we will form our centers by the end of the year, but also allow for consistent implementation of the new national programme. We have increased these funds in this year, but I remind you that we have increased the total funds for the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity by 8.65%. The majority of course refers precisely to the care of Croatian defenders and members of their families, the care of the defenders, that we included in this amount the repayment of the debt according to the 2001 law, so for 2001 and 2002. That debt, ladies and gentlemen, is 141 million kuna. Also in next year's budget projection, we provided a new 187 million to pay back the debt from 2003 and early 2004 when the old law was implemented. We also provided additional means of identification, for exhumations, which, of course, also belongs to part of the program of actually psychosocial assistance, because when you help people solve fates, then you certainly helped in this psychosocial treatment. We also in the budget for this year, i.e. the following year 2006, ensure the implementation of legal obligations that were not carried out in 2003, for example, which is the purchase of cars to 100% disabled groups. We ensure the purchase of 141 cars, solve some problems that are related to the housing of 100% people with disabilities, so I believe that at the beginning of next year we will be able to say that we have really solved the housing issues of all 100% of the disabled groups in the entire country.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48892	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48893	This explanation of the Honorable Madam Minister, Vice-President of the Government, in logical conclusion is called a second-generation transition. I'm here asking for help for, psychological assistance to the victims of the Homeland War, and that amount that the government has envisioned in the amount of 12 million 585 thousand less compared to the previous year, and I am asking for an increase of 20 million kuna regardless of these other increases in some other items in the ministry that are not disputed that you have said here, but that is not an explanation for my amendment here, especially the end of the sad and sad fact that these kinds of help to the victims of the Homeland War, unfortunately, everything is more necessary because they still feel great injustice, great promises, and little of it achieved, and especially in addition to the tragic facts... / We have a tragic fact about increasing the number of suicides among this population. It's not funny, Madam Minister, especially in the last year and a half. And that's why I'm asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48894	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 36, representative of the Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48895	Mr. President, the government does not accept this amendment. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment. It is not true that the government has not increased the funds in these positions. The government has increased funds in these positions. The government is also very careful, especially through the Ministry of Croatian Defence, to monitor everything that is happening among the defenders, to try to correct the injustices, to restore dignity, of course. We, as you know, are the first to go public and with numbers that are tied to the suicide of the defender, these are painful numbers and I appeal that we do not politicize about numbers and that we do not begin to bid on them, because it would be devastating for all of us, but of course it would be very bad for defenders, especially those who are suffering from post-traumatic terrible disorder. What I can also say is that when we took over the ministry among the first measures, we abolished the MNPI II test, which greatly freaked out Croatian defenders who had suffered from this disease, we did a number of other measures that they sought, above all in the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders who entered into force on January 1st of this year, we installed all their requests regarding the recognition of the disease and what they can say that we received the support of the Association of Croatian defenders treated with post-traumatic stress disorder. Of course, about the number of suicides, Mrs Anticevic-Marinović said earlier, we can open the debate, but once again I repeat, it is not, of course, an accurate finding that the number of suicides is growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48896	Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48897	Thank you. Well, fortunately, it's a relatively small number of amendments, because by reason we could welcome midnight. ... The unclean conscience is treated by the amount of words spoken. [[You don't understand.]] It must be determined that the centres for psychosocial assistance are least said, not working. The number of employees in them has been halved. Regional centres are also not fully formed as you have confirmed yourself. It is therefore an amazing reduction from 15 million kuna, which has been in the budget since 1999 to these 12.5 million kunas. That's why I suggest the amount at which you, Madam Minister, have always insisted while you were in opposition. It would not be good if the government advocates a more effective psychosocial aid system for Croatian defenders only from the declarative and as you have stated here, political initiatives. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48898	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 37, representative of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48899	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept this amendment. It refers to positions related to the implementation of youth policy, i.e. the implementation of a national programme of action for young people. I must say that the implementation of measures under the National Youth Action Programme is actually carried out through three activities. In the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, in this family section, through the Family Administration. It is a policy for young people, support for programmes aimed at children and young people and, in part, through the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Commission for Persons with Disabilities, of course, for young people and children. I must point out that we have increased the funds for these positions and that the increase index is 231,70%. So we've secured 12 million 139 thousand kuna, which is twice as much as the insurance in the State budget for 2005 when the funds amounted to 5 million 239 thousand kuna. So, the government does not accept this amendment, but I believe that the MP will accept this explanation of actually a total, more than a significant increase in youth policy resources, to support programmes aimed at children and young people. I repeat, the amount, i.e. the index, is 231,70% and we will, of course, ensure that all our programmes are implemented in a very good way. So to finance 43 youth clubs throughout Croatia, projects of associations intended for children and young people, but also all projects aimed at fighting drugs, or all forms of addiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48900	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48901	Your Honor, Madam Minister, I cannot accept your argument for several reasons. First, I ask this amendment to change the name of the item so that, for example, assistance to eight families is re-interpreted as a youth policy, as you once replied to me, given that the youth policy in this country is defined by the national youth action programme. I hope that at least we could accept that renaming just to make it completely unequivocal. Two, about the amount. In the youth policy item, the amount is 2 million 343 thousand kuna, which was exactly the same as last year and which was less for exactly one million and 657 thousand kuna than it was in 2003 when there were 5 million kuna in that item. This second item that you mentioned in the next amendment, and I just want to say that last year we abolished two items relating to monitoring and improving youth policy and promoting social participation for young people. However, it has not been too surprising to all of me so far how surprised I am to say that, as president of the Youth Council, you have probably confused with the mind that, if not already these days, an operational programme for young people, an operational programme for national youth action, where around 8 million kuna is foreseen for activities in your ministry. I'm only looking for 5 here, aware of some reality, and those items in no way have you introduced. And I want to warn you that only the Ministry of Health has put the measures from the operational programme into the budget, and no other ministry has entered. Therefore, because the funds for youth policy, i.e. for the implementation of the National Youth Action Programme, are reduced in this budget and because no operational plan adopted by your Government is monitored, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48902	Thank you very much. Are you looking for a vote? Who's in favour of this amendment? [[/Intruder: Yes, yes.]] Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving on to Amendment 38, also Ms. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government does not accept this amendment. I believe that after an explanation on why the government does not accept this amendment, Ms. Lugaric will consider withdrawing the amendments. It is, in fact, support for programmes aimed at children and young people, i.e. the representative proposes a separation of programmes for children and youth programmes. I would like to say that the funds in the State budget for 2006 for these programmes are 9 million 370 thousand kuna and that they are higher by 6 million 800,000 kuna than the collateral for 2005 that amounted to 2 million 570 thousand kuna. The index is, therefore, even 364,59. So, I believe that the MP will welcome this really big increase for programmes intended for children and young people. And I don't see what would be controversial in that because the 2006 funding has been increased several times. It will focus on programmes aimed at children and young peoples stemming from the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the National Youth Action Programme. By the way, the operational plan, here it is, just today, passed the Co-ordination for Social Activities and is going to the government's session. Then, the National Programme for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and the Implementation of Natural National Family Policy. So, here I repeat once again, the funds have increased by 6 million 800,000 kuna. It's a substantial asset. The index, I repeat, is 364,59 and I believe that MP Lugaric will welcome this orientation, namely this decision by the Government to further support programmes intended for children and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48904	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48905	Your Honor, Madam Minister, we did not understand each other about the amendment. I, of course, welcome these funds but it's not at all, at least as spectacular as you're saying it right now because we finally went back to the amounts we had in 2003. And I'm glad that in this budget you've increased those funds, and here's the third one, this time the first budget that I didn't have to write amendments to that content because you finally accepted these things to return at least to where they were. So I didn't write the amendment to the amount. This is, I guess, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the only amendment that does not require an increase in the amount, which is met with the amounts provided for in the budget. This amendment only requires that additional transparency be introduced. It is precisely the explanation of the Deputy Prime Minister who says that for example, programmes to combat abuse of addiction will also give me the right to ask that the item be separated specifically into youth programmes and especially children's programmes. To make it perfectly clear and completely unequivocal to whom what and how far it goes. I can agree with a different distribution than I suggested here according to your changes. I repeat, no financial resources are required here but only to introduce one transparency in the budget that was up to the 2005 budget. Since this is how we heard from the Minister's explanation, clearly under the programmes for children and young people, everything and everything, not the very two programmes that should be implemented. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48906	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to the 39th Amendment of Ms. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48907	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government does not accept this amendment. It refers to one actually brand-new item. The representative proposes to build a family Roma centre in Čakovec and proposes 3 million kuna funds. Madam MPs, here I want to tell you that actually the need to introduce such a new item in the budget of the Ministry of the Family, the defender and intergenerational solidarity is unnecessary. In accordance with our 2006 and 2007 plan, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity is moving forward, or rather, with the project of establishing family centres. We have already established them 6 and in this programme, i.e. the establishment of the Family Centre in Čakovec, for which millions of kunas have been planned, so for the family centre's programme activities along with the prescribed part of the family and its members' needs in the area of a particular county, this will, of course, be in the area of your county, so the Međimurje County and we think that the establishment of such a centre in Čakovec will create professional, programming and other assumptions for more effective implementation of the programme of affirmation and successful parenting and for members of Roma families, of course, will also be an opportunity to agree with the County of Međimurje, with the town of Čakovec and its neighbouring municipalities, to consider the possibility of the internal structure of the Family Centre, which will correspond naturally and specificities of Roma families living in this area. Finally, I would also like to present the information that will certainly interest both the honourable representative and all of you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government for the implementation of the decade for the Roma, or the Roma programme next year through the positions of different ministries predicts almost 12 million kuna in the 2006 Budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48908	Thank you very much. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48909	Well, it's obvious that Mrs. Vice President hasn't read the explanation of this item. Namely, one is the Family Centres that you are talking about, and this is actually one activity of the town of Čakovec that has so far been involved in many projects that have been involved in improving the position of both the social and the material Roma population. The Roma national minority is actually the most financially vulnerable minority and a group of citizens in Croatia at all. In fact, here it is proposed that the city plan to build what they called the conditional Family Roma Centre of a single space, which would cover 20 thousand square meters, would not build one business building, bus stop, playground and sports playground. The building itself would have a gross surface area of 560 square meters and would actually provide certain needs in that village. It's a village of Kursanec that you've reminded several times, even in an election campaign, as I recall. So there would be a small school, there would be certain gatherings of these users, then for the health care activities of the general practitioner, so something that would be in their hands. So, I don't think that can be compared to what you've tried to explain to me here, I think you should go from state level to projects like this that the town of Čakovec is doing, I would say here that in the area of Međimurje County lives more than one third of the Roma population in Croatia. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48910	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, President. Mr. Ivan Shuker, Minister of Finance, 40th Amendment of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48911	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration considers that the funds provided will be sufficient, and thus more so as Mr. MP practically foresees redistribution within the foreign ministry's positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48912	Thank you. Mr. Agent Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48913	Thank you very much. Well, the government refuses to propose a significant increase in the funds for the implementation of the communication strategy on Croatia's accession to the European Union. It seems to me that, in the end, even more than I do, it will be necessary to regret the foreign and European integration minister when it is shown that the communication strategy will still not be able to be fully implemented because of the lack of funds, and I fear that it will also be necessary for the government to regret it when it is shown that because of the inadequate and insufficient communication of Europe, citizens do not end up with sufficiently convincing conditions for the implementation of the referendum on Croatia's accession to the European Union, which the vast majority will have to declare that the success of the referendum would have been guaranteed, and I think only significant means for Europe to communicate to citizens, that only great funds can guarantee success in this referendum. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48914	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I pray to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship State Secretary. [[Intruder: State Secretary.]] Here you go. Representative Marijan Jurjevic and 41st Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government does not accept this amendment because the funds for shipbuilding subsidy activities are planned according to contracted shipbuilding dynamics.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48916	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48917	Dear Madam Secretary of State, if this proposal is accepted and otherwise this Budget I believe that Croatian shipbuilding is a written thing in Croatia, at this point the funds needed, i.e. the losses in shipbuilding shown to the Government are 7 billion kuna, so about a billion euros. You predict 390 million subsidies to shipyards, I suggest that it rises by 500 million, so to 890 million kuna. I think it is a minimum of what can be done at this time to do something for the shipbuilding by which a large number of us who live by the sea live in an indirect way, and this only says that there is no one designed plan or development policy of Croatia, so neither do I appeal to my colleagues to accept this amendment and ask for a vote for all those who do not only live from shipbuilding, because I believe that Croatia can live in an indirect way from shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48918	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 42. IDS representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48919	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted for reasons because the funds for the corporate infrastructure amounting to 92 million and 100 thousand kuna are sufficient for the financing of infrastructure entrepreneurs. For business infrastructure in 2005 4 million and 630 kuna were allocated to Istria County and there is no reason not to continue such dynamics during this period in 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48920	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48921	Yeah here's just this definition where you're asked to take 2 million kunas, i.e. the funds are delivered together to the Istrian Zone in Umag, i.e. 2 million kuna for the Vodnjan industrial zone. Which means development, which means entrepreneurship, I think it's deplaced at this point to even talk about it, but bearing in mind that the County of Istria in the budget is directly completed with only 27 million kuna, I believe that it would be opportunised to include these symbolic under quotes 4 million kuna, which is a significant asset for both Umag and Vodnjan, i.e. these funds in this year's budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48922	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of 43rd Representative Željko Pavlica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48923	Thank you very much, Vice President. The amendment 43 is not accepted because the funds amounting to 7 million and 600,000 kuna are sufficient for the export incentive programme. These funds are related to a programme of foreign fairs, however, within the Ministry of Economy the means of stimulating exports are also available on other activities such as the 63.6 million kuna for increasing the competitiveness of the processing industry, 9 million kuna for marketing activities, 17 million kuna for new technologies, quality system, innovations which are all prerequisites for some entrepreneur to export if he raises his competitiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48924	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48925	Well, in the budget, it's decadent that these are the means that are meant to encourage exports, and that's how I understood it. And in my view, it is now too little money no matter how it was used. So the data tells us that Croatia supports mainly transport, shipbuilding and tourism in support of certain sectors while less support is provided by economic operators, so to speak. horizontal level, i.e. These are the support for all businesses and not just some. In my view, we should support more evenly as far as exports are concerned, we know what our trade-export balance is, especially according to some economic branches compared to some other economic branches, for example our text, our wood industry, our economic industry is very neglected, it almost has no help at all. Here are the conclusions from the section meeting of the textile and footwear industry that have been activated these days in which they also require that certain export stimulations be introduced for export companies, i.e. what they are asking to equalise with other economic branches, especially as regards shipbuilding, trade, tourism, etc. So I hope it's precisely because we're turning our reality into a trade deficit to support this amendment. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48926	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to 44 MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48927	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds are planned in the amount of €92 million for entrepreneurship infrastructure sufficient to finance. Just to point out that the cities in the counties for which the proposal was made this year have received 24 million and 835 kuna from the Ministry of Economy, i.e. for entrepreneurship infrastructure and 33 million kuna from other funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48928	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter of the amendment, Mr. Vice-President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48929	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues, Your Honors Secretary of State! Well, look, I can hardly understand this claim that there are sufficient funds to finance entrepreneurial activity. Now I'll tell you why. We have prepared several amendments, one of them is this amendment which supports entrepreneurial activity, growth and development in areas which are particularly lagging behind in the Republic of Croatia for its development in order to actually win new production, new products, create jobs and employment and soon grow and development in these areas. Dear colleagues and colleagues, compared to 2003, the city of Zagreb increased by $4000 115 per capita. It is twice as much as the growth total of the current national gross product per capita in Vukovar-Srijem County, twice as much as it is in Brod-Posavia County, for example to which this amendment applies and almost twice as much as it is... Of course, this is not the fault of the city of Zagreb, we are again pointing out but the Republic of Croatia as a central government must do something to reduce these differences and that the Republic of Croatia is developing equally and uniformly, of course using its comparative, primarily regional, economic, natural and human resources. [[Because of the noise, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, what we would like to say is the real backlog shows the fact that Vukovar-Srijem County for the development of the city of Zagreb towards 2004 is 12 times behind, Brod-Posaviska eleven times and Požesko-Slavon County nine times. I have nothing else to comment on but that we are trying to do so with these minimum funds that should increase this entry for the establishment where they are not yet founded for the modernisation and promotion of entrepreneurship zones where they are founded, in fact to increase by 40 million but for all cities such as Vukovar, Vinkovci, Ilock, Požega, Županja, Gunja, Slavonski Brod, Okucani, Nova Gradiška, Pakrac, Lipik, therefore areas that have otherwise been affected by war and war destruction and which really need to be helped to do something else to speed up growth and development. I am convinced that the Parliament will vote this amendment because I simply cannot believe that it will not vote in view of the needs of these areas and of what these areas for the Republic of Croatia have given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48930	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48931	Please establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48932	All right. Confirm the quorum. We don't have a quorum. We have 65 MPs in the assembly. Please ensure the quorum of those responsible for this. And in the meantime, we'll wait for the time to live and continue voting on the amendments. Well, we won't vote. We won't vote when we have the quorum. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. We've got 81 MPs. We can vote. We move on to the 45th amendment of Mr. Zlatko Koračević's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48933	Thank you very much, Vice-President, the esteemed representative Koračević has submitted 11 amendments to the same activity, therefore, relating to the funds related to the entrepreneurial infrastructure. None of the amendments shall be accepted for reasons why the funds are sufficient according to the dynamics to encourage entrepreneurship infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48934	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48935	Since this is a concrete project in the town of Ivanac, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48936	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't make it. He didn't get the votes he needed. On the 46th, the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48937	The same is not accepted for the same reason as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48938	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48939	Since this is a business zone project in the Sracanec municipality, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48940	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. Amendment 47 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48941	It's not acceptable either.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48942	It's about... Zones, on the municipality of special state care and the municipality of Cestica which has not received any support from the central budget in the past two years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48943	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 48 of the same agent?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48944	Same answer as the last one. It's not acceptable because the funds are enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48945	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48946	It's about... Zones in the city of Varazdin spa. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48947	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 49 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48948	It's not accepted for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48949	Mr. Representative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48950	It's about... Zones in the city of Ludbreg, please vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48951	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 50 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48952	It's not accepted the same as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48954	It's about the new... Zones in the city of Varazdin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48955	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 51st is the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48956	Amendments are not accepted for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48957	It's about... Zones in the city of Novi Marof. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48958	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 52nd amendment of the same representative, Koračević, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48959	Thank you very much for the same answer. It's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48960	It's about... Areas of the municipalities... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the municipality of special public concern which has not received support from the Central Budget in the last two years and I ask the vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48961	Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 53 of the same representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48962	Thank you very much. Same answer, unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48963	It's about... Zones in the town of Leprechaun, mountain mountain status. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48964	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 54 of the same representative please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48965	It's not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48966	It's about... the municipalities... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And please vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48967	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 55, Amendment 55 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48968	Same answer. It is not accepted because the funds are sufficient according to the dynamics to encourage entrepreneurship infrastructure for 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48969	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48970	It's about... the municipality of the Upper Library. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48971	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to the 56th Amendment of the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48972	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned amount of 30 million kuna is sufficient to pay all pension benefits based on physical damage and compensation for other people's assistance and care in 2006. The proposal to increase that activity by an amount of 300 million kuna on behalf of national pensions prior to the adoption of national pension rules is considered premature, i.e. legally unfounded. Only after the entry into force of that Regulation in accordance with the provisions of that Regulation will it be possible to plan and determine the amount of funds necessary for the payment of national pensions as well as sources of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48973	Thank you. On behalf of Mrs. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48974	I thank Mr. Vice President, so it's not exactly like that because a certain legal project would have to have the intended resources in the state budget otherwise the law cannot be passed. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the Republic of Croatia is a social state. As a social state, it is necessary to take care of the weakest and most needed. Today in the Republic of Croatia there are 65,000 citizens who have no income and who are over 65 years old and are unable to work. In addition, if we add that part of the rural population that is being squeezed out of the support system by a new support system, then that social picture is getting worse. And if we're the social state we swear to. If we have so prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then the resources for the social care of those unable to obtain work must be provided. In particular, it is an unfounded and unfounded argument that there is no legal obligation now. The legal obligation does not exist, such a bill was in the procedure, the explanation of your ministry is that no law can be passed until the budget provides the funds. By believing in the honesty and social sensitivity of the government in which the government swears, we have therefore proposed this amendment. But social sensitivity is evident right now by rejecting this amendment, and therefore we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48975	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank Secretary of State Tajani Kesic-Sakic. Now we move on to this set of amendments from the Ministry of Culture. Please, State Secretary Mr Antolovic. Here you go. 57 amendments by representatives Mate Gavran and Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48976	The government does not accept the amendment in the positions of protection of cultural heritage. There's enough money in the bank. And in the particular case of the Church of St. Ivana Baptizer in the municipality of Sibinj, despite having sufficient documentation for the restoration, gives priority to upgrading the pastoral hall and not to protecting works on the restoration of the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48977	Thank you very much, Mr Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48978	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'm glad that Mr. President is here at this very moment to enter the House, Mr. Secretary of State, and I'm glad that you have the means to provide for this church. I'll remind you that the Church is two hundred thirty years old. This year, he's celebrating that anniversary. That 36 years is a protected monument of culture. And for four years we've been trying to find the means to get the Church settled, not to look, as it looks now exactly as it is now. He's not a controversial priest, I talked to the priest today and make sure it's the least of the obstacles. If you provide the means to which I believe you will secure, the Church should look at least a little more beautiful and neater as a young girl, let's say, no matter what 230 years old. How is Mr. Shakespeare here as an honorary citizen of the municipality... I am sure that you will support this proposal and that we will finally bring this church to the part that, I would say, is minimally necessary for religious rituals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48979	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48980	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In addition to the funds for "Croatian Voice" Croatian HRT are provided in the Budget... For North America, Australia and New Zealand, the total necessary funds for both purposes cannot be assessed until the end of the assessment, as part of the funds is achieved by the coding of programmes or by the sale of cards that allow the monitoring of the coded programmes and these funds are secured at the level as for 2005. [[You don't understand it because of the bell.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48981	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48982	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State. Here's the story again about the care of the Croats. Everyone drills into their chests, oh, when they need to talk about that care for Croats outside their homeland, and when they need... And when there's money to be provided in the budget, then there's no worry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I know there's no money in the budget. That's quite clear. Here's Mr. Bergman announcing your resignation yesterday because he's missing... Mr. Bergman announces his resignation because he lacks 2 billion kuna for the health system. People won't be able to heal themselves. So here are the MPs here even looking for a Voice...... Mr. President... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48983	Please be careful, don't
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48984	Either let me go to the pay phone or give me time because this doesn't make sense. This doesn't make sense. Discipline representatives from your Club [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48985	Don't associate Stazic, whether someone is wrong or wrong, don't go to a particular club immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48986	So it's clear, there's no in this budget as we can see, nor is there one for the defenders. There's nothing we can see about rebuilding the church. Salaries won't grow above inflation. It's going to be below inflation, so it's going to fall, but this is a legal obligation. The HRT Act states that the obligation to finance this programme is assumed by the government and will conclude a contract with HRT. And they gave you, gave you a calculation, and it takes 505,000 and 700 kuna more than this to pay. That's how much it costs. That's how much it costs. And now I'm curious why the government won't comply with the legal obligation, but it's getting out of it, look at the sales, I don't know, satellite program. Well, let them sell. The HRT Act says you need to finance this. You have to. That's what the government has to finance. And you won't follow the law. You won't, you won't. You're above the law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48987	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 59th Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48988	The government doesn't accept the amendment. As regards the adaptations and the funds for the adaptation of the Castle of Opek, we point out that the private-public partnership project is planned to provide funds for the reconstruction of the castle, which does not necessarily exclude the financial support of the Ministry if this occurs during the renovation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48989	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48990	In view of the good intentions of the Ministry of the Arboretum of "Opeka" I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48991	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 60th Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48992	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In the framework of the adopted government strategy for the development of the island, the opening of the archive store in Zrnovo and the arrangement of the Arneri Palace are envisaged and the necessary funds are provided for this purpose under the programme. As a result, there is no need to secure funds in two places.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48993	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48994	Thank you very much. Mr. President, it is clear that Korčula is one of our largest historical seats, a cultural heritage that surpasses not only that area but also the whole of Croatia that in the last few years there has been a revitalisation of just cultural heritage in that city. And in view of the Korčula Archival Assembly Centre, which really needs to be the cap of all these events, it is one point to note that the city has solved property relations, that they are ensured, that the location is secured, that the building permit and all necessary documentation is established and that is why it is necessary, for the sake of validity of the building permit, to approach the realization of this collection centre of archival construction and, as the promoter says, that the funds are already provided in other positions, I am pleased that we can conclude and that this Archive Centre will continue to be uninterrupted. I'm withdrawing the amendment then.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48995	Thank you. Amendment 60 has been withdrawn. 61st Alenka Koshasa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48996	The government does not accept the amendment, the government does not accept the amendment. The amendment proposes an increase in the position envisaged for investment in culture, and explains that the additional 10 million would be spent on rebuilding the old town of Sisak and Veliki Kaptol. They are registered cultural monuments and their reconstruction is financed from another position.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48997	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48998	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me just say that I proposed this amendment last year as well as some other amendments. Namely, if it's a protected cultural heritage, it would be good enough for you to go and see how it's protected? It's not that it's not protected but it's so ruined that it's a shame that it's our cultural heritage at all. So it doesn't really matter what position the funds are in for this, I just want to tell you that nothing happened from last year to this year. Nothing was restored either in the old city of Sisak, nor on the Great Kaptol. And you know that this is a national object, that the first opera "Juran and Sofia" has just been performed in Sisak in the Great Kaptola, so I ask you to see if you could still find some means to help rebuild it in that county. Thank you. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u48999	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 62. Ante Markov?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49000	The government doesn't accept the amendment. At the position of investments in culture, 72% more funds were provided than last year, and the funds were provided in this way and for the financing of investment works in the homes of culture and cultural centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49001	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49002	Thank you very much. I'd like to explain a little bit. It is an upgrade of the second floor of the existing building, and it is the municipality of Pirovac located in Sibenik-Knin County. Given the modest municipal budget and a number of priorities that are particularly important for the standard and functioning of the municipality itself, this project is planned to be implemented in a three-year, three-year solution with the fact that certain funds from the Ministry would be necessary in order to be realised together with the municipal budget. I didn't quite understand if part of the funds mentioned by the esteemed promoter were also related to the municipality of Pirovac? If part of these funds are related to the municipality of Pirovac, then of course I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49003	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 63rd Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49004	The government doesn't accept the amendment. At the position of investment in culture as I have already said 72% is more funds than this year and these funds also provide funds for co-financing of investment works in libraries as proposed by the amendment for the Lepoglava library.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49005	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49006	If this project is included in the position of the Ministry of Amendment, I withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49007	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn 63. 64th Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49008	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The Draganic Palace in Pirovac financed comprehensive works to rebuild the roof in 2003, which were completed on that occasion. The following is not a priority for Draganic's palace, and if it is about its adjustment to tourism, we believe it should be provided from funds collected on behalf of the monumental rent at local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49009	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49010	Thank you very much. It is true that part of Draganic's palace in Pirovac was reconstructed as far as the roof was concerned. But it is also true that it is one of the most valuable cultural treasures in the area, of course it represents the same tourist and, attraction, but one cultural value that certainly has its wider and larger characteristics. Given the state of the Budget of the Municipality of Pirovac it is simply impossible to expect that from the modest budget a total reconstruction of the Draganić Palace will be possible and therefore we held that it would be quite appropriate and in line with the government's ability to make part of the funds, not such large funds, it is the amount of 120 thousand kuna separate for that purpose. Unless there's funds for that kind of thing, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49011	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 65th Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49012	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Namely, we are just respecting the reasons for the reasons of the MPs in which it states that this monument should be arranged for, as a contribution to the tourist offer, and we stress that it is the remains of the mljetska fortress which is difficult to reach and, if it should be invested here, it should also be invested from the funds of the monumental rent collected on the local... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49013	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49014	Thank you very much. Well, I mean, it's the same starting points, the same target we were just talking about. Of course, it's a valuable cultural monument, that it's a heritage that, of course, always has been implemented on tourism content, but I just think that in the last few years, it's a mature belief that it's just hard to just separate how we are now trying to mathematically separate what it is that belongs to cultural heritage and what it is about tourism. Simply tourism, of course, includes cultural heritage and no cultural heritage and without what we can show, and what is the subject and reason for arrival and guests and all visitors to Croatia. We just can't share it. That's why it's a little bit of a surprise that it's being shared, so let's find it in the positions of the tourism ministry or somewhere else. I don't think it's a good thing that we have to see it integrally because tourism and we can't develop it, but as our common product in which we all participate, and in which culture participates, as well as natural beauty, as well as upbuilding, as well as smiles and all that happens within tourism. So, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49015	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 66th for also Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49016	The government doesn't accept the amendment. In fact, we must very much share when, the criteria for sharing the resources of the state budget for the protection and preservation of cultural goods, as these funds from the budget should be given at the risk priority to preserve the largest cultural heritage fund. And where adjustment is involved, visiting from tourists should be invested in the resources of those who will collect tourist income from such a tourist attraction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49017	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49018	Thank you very much. Here, now we're on that set of questions that we can explain so nicely. Of course, they look very different on the ground. The Tower of Canellici is necessarily a need for recovery, it is evident, that all those who have been there can be convinced. Not only us, but, of course, tourists see it very well. The local self-government issued a building permit. For works the truth is approved 300 thousand kuna, which is of course both insufficient and insufficient. Even that wasn't enough to set up a skeleton. One part of the funds that will be needed to resuscitate the tower itself has provided the City of Korčula with funds of monumental rent, which unfortunately amounts to only 200 thousand kuna, although when we talk about this monumental rent for those who pay it again for the tourist industry, it is often the subject of criticism, it is often the subject of a dispute that affects competitiveness and all together. Despite all that is expensive and worth 200 thousand kunas, however, it is not even nearly enough to perform these works, and it would really be good for that tower that is truly separate, special, whether it is at first priority or not to be judged this way from the eye. But I think it's a good thing that the ministry is taking care of it and trying to find any way this year, any sources of resources to try to help renovate the tower as soon as possible and to be in office for both citizens and visitors. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49019	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 67th Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49020	The government does not accept this amendment seeking insurance of 3 and a half million kuna for the reconstruction of the County Palace in Varazdin and that is because this year, the same reconstruction has provided an amount of 400,000 kuna, which has not been spent so far. In fact, at least we don't have the justification for spending that amount, which confirms that there are still no conditions for starting a comprehensive reconstruction at the reconstruction of the County Palace in Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49021	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49022	The process of rebuilding the County Palace is long term. The funds provided for this year are also agreed and will be spent. Since the need for reconstruction of the installation, reconstruction of the entrance of the staircase and other contents necessary for the overall functioning of this palace, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49023	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 68th MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49024	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Namely, the restoration of the cathedral of St. Teresa of Avril is under way and ongoing financing of reconstruction works is being financed. Also in Požega the 24th of November was solemnly completed renewal... In the Square of the Holy Trinity, a romantic portal at the Franciscan monastery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which shows that the funds are invested in the restoration of the posjelj monuments and that they continue to last.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49025	Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49026	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. Well, I don't have the illusion that this 68th amendment will go away too, because it's just that none of them have passed so far. But since these items are not in the budget, we have also predicted 500 thousand kunas to speed up the work and one of the most beautiful baroque churches in Slavonia, and in Požega County certainly brings the end as soon as possible. In the explanation of the church in Sibinj which is a protective monument of culture, you said you were being prevented by a priest, which is simply not true. No one here crosses you, and we invite you to single out these 500 thousand kunas and get the church into full function and full glory as soon as possible. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49027	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 69th, also from representatives Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49028	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. In fact, he cannot accept it because this amendment seeks funds for the reconstruction of the Parish Church in Gunja, which simply is not a monument of culture and cannot be financed from the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49029	Vice-President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49030	First of all, it is not true that there can be no funding for the restoration of the church just because it is not a monument of culture. Among other things, funds are allocated from the state budget, and funds can be allocated to help religious communities, and we would like to point out that Gunja is a border crossing between 3 countries and that in such a situation it is very important to restore sacral objects in which even believers can fill their religious, cultural and in-house facilities. And that's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49031	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 70th Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49032	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Namely, the reconstruction of the Erdödy Palace is ongoing and is also being provided in this year with funding from the state budget. Next, it is planned to continue over the next year, and the funds are secured at the position of protecting the preservation of cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49033	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49034	I thank and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49035	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 71, also representative Zlatko Korajevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49036	The proposed amendment is not accepted as has been established and in the light of the amendment itself. The city of Varazdin High School is located in the historical core of Varazdin and is not an individual protected monument. Next, the ministry will only be able to participate in the preservation of its monumental properties while all remaining funds must be provided by the County of Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49037	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49038	The High School building in Varazdin is located in the historic core of the town of Varazdin as part of the 19th block, built in 1870. It is in its authentic form preserved completely and certain parts such as windows, it is necessary to replace, repair and repair. The aim and purpose is to carry out intervention work and to preserve the authentic shape of the building built back in 1870, with the fact that the High School in Varazdin in 2006 marks the 370th anniversary of the work, and the maintenance and rehabilitation of the complete building is mainly the city of Varazdin and the County of Varazdin, so please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49039	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 72, also representative Zlatko Korajevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49040	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. The funds for editing the Vindi cave are provided this year and also for continuing the work next year, the funds are provided in two positions, in the position of protecting cultural goods, given that the cave has an archaeological site.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49041	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49042	Thank you very much. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49043	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 73, Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49044	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. As part of the division of the Ministry of Culture in the Head of Nature "Protection and Conservation", the position A779001 provides an amount of one million kuna to prevent the spread of invasive species, which is probably not noticed by the representatives, and this year it was concluded in a speech between the Ministry of Culture and the oceanographic institute on the systematic prevention of the spread of invasive algae in the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49045	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49046	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, by respecting your argument, I do not believe that it is mentioned in that form, or the desire in which it was intended to be achieved by amendment. Namely, it's like... a caboline that's one-off at the speed of the Adriatic aquarium, which we know has escaped from the pool in Monaco and is being transmitted to both the nets and the anchors. I think it poses too much danger and, in order to prevent it from spreading, significant resources are needed. I think even if that's true, so that's your explanation, I think those funds are too small because its removal requires extremely great expertise and extremely great attention because otherwise it will not only be as it is now in Hvar, Brač, Rab and Malinska, island of Krk, or the island of Krk, will already spread to the entire Adriatic and destroy an indigenous species of algae, an indigenous species of living organisms in the sea and do great damage. I therefore demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49047	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 74, IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49048	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. The building of Matija Vlasic Ilirika in Labin is protected by the monument of culture and the funds for its restoration are provided in the context of the position of protection of cultural goods. I must point out that according to the insight carried out by the conservatory service, the building is in good condition, and we do not think that it is necessary to establish a new position in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49049	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49050	Well certainly one of the most famous people who came from these areas and who is certainly more famous in the world than in Croatia is Matija Vlačić Ilirik. On the other hand, this amendment was in some way an attempt to remove the embargo, which in the last 15 years has been intended for Matija Vlacic Ilirik. Valorizing some of the famous people who have given these spaces can certainly draw attention to the Republic of Croatia itself. On the other hand, few people in Croatia know that a small Labin gave one great man like Matija Vlacic Ilirik, who was the most important man of the Protestant movement along with Martin Luther. This simply cannot be challenged and in order to draw attention to its work, the IDS Club proposes that this year's budget provide a modest 250 thousand kuna for its home building. The secretary of state said that the funds were provided on some items in some other budget sizes, unfortunately we look year after year for these funds but we fail to implement them and so much I ask the Parliament to vote, or to support this amendment of the club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49051	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go. 75 amendments, Zlatko Korčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49052	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept the amendment, to add a new position to the creation of a private forest management programme, given that there is a position to improve forestry and that there is a means to establish a forest advisory service that will primarily deal with private forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49053	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49054	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. The purpose and purpose of this programme is the full inventory of private-owned forest and forest space, which has 30% participation in the Varazdin County. Construction of forest infrastructure, quality variety forest, conversion of abandoned... as well as compensation for the loss of forest area due to the construction of accumulation on the hydrocentral in Varazdin and an increase in ecological awareness. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Given that the Varazdin County economy is devoting funds that are normally spent in areas where national forests are present more intensively, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49055	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 76, representative of Bozidar Panketić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49056	The Government does not accept this amendment for the reasons that the co-financing and construction funds of the refrigerator are provided for in the position of a horizontal support measure of 5 million kuna and for these reasons there is no need to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49057	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49058	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I am pleased if these funds are provided for in this item, but in this year and last year, you have continued a good project, which is the construction of a refrigerator, and I must say, for that, it is certainly a dry need. As you can see, an operational programme to raise years of plantations doesn't go at the rate it should go, and it certainly won't work if we don't have the infrastructure. Ulo-fridges are necessary and I will tell you that on those funds from the ministry if it counts, will it, if they are intended in another part and if in that part of it is intended to be built in Velika Gorica, with the co-financing of Zagreb County, City of Zagreb, Velika Gorica and of course the agricultural cooperative "Zagrebački orchards" I will be prepared to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49059	We can't talk that way conditionally because there's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49060	Thank you very much, I'm just looking at the minister, he's signaling something, if he blinks, I'm pulling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49061	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. 77, representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić and Vladimir Šišljagić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49062	The government does not accept this amendment. The same argument for the reason why financial resources are provided and all interested parties may report to the tender. In last year, the ministry co-financed the construction of a freezer in Osijek-Baranja County and there is no reason why interested people should not report to the competition in 2006. From this year on, the ministry co-financed the construction of 19 thousand tonnes of storage space in the refrigerator, and by 2003 there were 14 thousand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49063	Representative Ivan Drmić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49064	Mr. Minister, we all know that the intensity of these governments is to achieve a certain development of a branch in agriculture. It's fruit growing and vegetables. The fact is that people can't do this job that they don't have all the conditions, and one of the conditions is to build one of these in-fridges without which it's practically impossible to do the job. It is also true that in Baranja last year a modern coolant was built, but it currently meets the needs of only those companies that built it. The town of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County has built one project to build a modern 4 thousand-tonne refrigerator, which is also not nearly enough to meet the needs of Eastern Slavonia. Here, I hope it'll be one part of that 5 million kuna money, and maybe in a rebalancing way that'll increase a little bit to make something in that field. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49065	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 78th, representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49066	The government does not accept this amendment. In order to add a new position and create a plan for collecting and monitoring data on the placement of mineral fertilisers and protection products in agriculture in Varazdin County, given that there is a ground quality control position.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49067	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49068	In Varazdin County, it is planned to produce forms intended for protective products producers to obtain data on the consumption of mineral fertilisers and protection products in agriculture. It also provides for the establishment of a system of communication between the county, local administration units, professions, agricultural producers, sellers, or suppliers, which would establish control over the consumption of those funds, but also the disposal of packagings as hazardous waste. If the position we heard from Mr. Minister is the one that allows this project to be initiated, I withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49069	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 79, MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49070	The government does not accept this amendment. And in addition to the 630 thousand kuna indicated, there is also a capital donation item for the construction of the rider on the Gjakovo ergela amounting to 3 and a half million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49071	Vice President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49072	Mr. President, we are pleased that the funds for the construction of the yacht for sports and not only sports riding, but also the use of riding for medical purposes. But we also believe that it should be possible to expand and perfect further ergela Đakovo and therefore we have suggested little of this increase because it is an increase of less than 900 thousand kuna. So we propose that the amendment be adopted anyway and we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49073	Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. The 80th Amendment, attorney for Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49074	The government does not accept this amendment with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49075	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49076	Thank you, Mr. Minister. However, I am not pleased with your failure to accept this amendment. In fact, as a representative in front of the 6th electoral unit, of course, I advocate for the development of cavalry with the fact that in Croatia I think that other than the indigenous breed in Đakov and ergela in Đakov, I should certainly also work on and support the breeding of the horse, which is also our indigenous breed. Because I don't think it's an option for us to use English import breeds instead of domestic breeds at the Knight's Games in Sinj. Especially since we know that in the traditional use of those days, English horses are certainly not used, but our horses here have been used. So I'm asking you nicely to vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49077	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 81st, representative of Bozidar Pankretić, Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49078	The government does not accept this amendment. The funds for the establishment of the Agricultural Chamber are sufficient in the planned amount of the Budget Proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49079	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49080	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, I don't think those funds are enough. As you know, the Agriculture Act has clearly defined that Croatia's agricultural chamber will be founded. The initiatives that unfortunately come from your associations are also focused on Croatia's agricultural chamber being extremely necessary in that part. For almost two years now, there has been almost prepared material left, which I believed would come as a legal proposal. Since he has not yet come to the assembly benches himself with colleagues from the HSS Club ready to put that material in the process. And if it starts next year with the establishment of the Agricultural Chamber, I assure you that these 50,000 kuna are certainly not enough. And here we put the real amount, which is 200 thousand kuna which would be enough to establish in one election and all of the procedures needed by the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. It is of course necessary to protect the interests of Croatian peasants, she will thus, I would say, help to select those of Croatian peasants with a proper choice. We need it for sure from the moment we're at. The moment in which we are certainly negotiating with the European Union, and I believe that we will not need to look for any of the Croatian peasants, but rather have legally elected representatives through the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture who will be able to represent the interests of the most direct, and I believe that there is certainly a lot of these interests. So, here again, I warn you in this section if we are seriously moving into this project, these 50,000 kunas are not enough, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49081	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 82nd, also representatives Bozidar Pankretic and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49082	The government does not accept this amendment because the funds in the rural development and rural development support position have been increased by 50%.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49083	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Ivan Kolar, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49084	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. It's easy to raise 50% of the funds if we accept an explanation for this year and how much use it is and then we plan easily. Because no rural development funds are actually spent the way it should be spent. The second is that they are spent, which is the effect of it, we need to see it alone on the ground. In fact, if we are to deal seriously with agriculture in a way that the family agriculture is a central place where production will be organised on an acceptable economic, environmental and above all beneficial for the Republic of Croatia, then in the rural area we have unlimited investment opportunities regardless of association and bans that exist anywhere. And the only way to bring the village back to life, to bring the village back to life and to show that agriculture is really important economic and cultural at all, and on each other's agenda, an important branch of commitment, then we need to provide more resources. This is just a slight attempt or a better word of promise to the peasants to take care of them. The real concern must be expressed in another way by means of a multiple increase in funds. Unfortunately, I have to say it's just crumbs that are given to the village, but I think it should be given more in the future, so I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49085	Who is this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 83rd of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49086	The government does not accept this amendment to increase the amount for the position of fostering agricultural production and intervention on the market is not in line with already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and the water economy and note that this position has increased by 215 million kuna compared to 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49087	Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49088	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. I think together that these are actually insufficient funds, because there are challenges and challenges ahead of us how to preserve at all the level of our agricultural production, and if our government and our ministry are not more determined to suppress the unfair competition that threatens us at every turn, and we are aware that our imports are booming and that I am now using statistics that absolutely exceeded all our expectations this year, probably ministers and all of us in the government, then we must be prepared to resist such unfair competition. Unloyal competition can only be contained when we have a healthy, economically strong primary and processing production. That's why all these stories that it's a lot I'm determined to refuse and I'm saying it's small funds, because the market needs a very large order, and all of it in the protection of domestic production in order to really economically strengthen it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49089	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 84th of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49090	The government does not accept this amendment. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy understands the importance of this investment support model and significantly increases the funding for this support model year from year to year, so let me say that in 2003 13 million kuna was paid in 2004 that 67 million kuna was paid, 80 million kuna will be paid in 2005 and 90 million kuna is expected for 2006, which is a significant increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49091	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49092	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Well, it is not disputed that in 2003 only 13 million kuna was paid and you know that it was just the introduction of this model that definitely proved to be an extremely good model. Investment support as a modern aid model, and we also know why to help because in a way that gives people who move into investment to improve their technology 20, 25% of the grants in one of the most transparent ways. Everyone competes, everyone wins, and we don't think it's controversial, because when we think about this, we've been taking care of the operational programs and the ones that we've been expecting for years and the operational programme for cattle production, because objectively these programs haven't met their expectations, and you're aware that they don't go with the dynamics we've been expecting, and we can freely conclude that they don't have that transparency like this model. There's still a lot of subjectivism out there, but here's a clear thing. If we have enough money, then we can raise these 25% of the grants to 30, 35% of the funds and believe that way our agricultural producers... to help them in a higher technology, technology that will be necessary when Croatia enters the European Union in a way that can be properly revived, helped, etc. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49093	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 85th also representing Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49094	The government does not accept this amendment for reasons because this position has increased by 100% compared to last year, which speaks enough about the government's concern, the importance and needs of certain forms of support in the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and the water economy, and in this context I would also like to stress that the operational programmes that this Government has brought to be implemented and that we provide sufficient financial resources for them to monitor them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49095	Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49096	Thank you very much. Not to repeat this so-called all together, Your Honor, Mr. President, I think that the trend in action, which is that for the first nine months of this year, the import of food products in the Republic of Croatia has increased to a billion 219 million 244 thousand 110 dollars. At the same time, the export of agricultural products is either 615 or rather the negative balance of $576 thousand $692 thousand 413 I think it speaks for itself, that it is not enough to increase the funds to correct this trend rather than to follow absolutely and on the other hand the trend and avoid it coming. It can only be such interventions in agriculture that our economic operators are strengthened and competitive, not destroyed by external competition. That is why I think that these funds for interventions by the Directorate for the Market Structure of Agriculture, support for agriculture for 2006 should be increased even in spite of some thinking that this is enough as it is now said, so I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49097	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment of 86th also represents Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49098	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason why we believe that the funds provided for in 2006 are sufficient for the reason that a tender for co-financing of certain projects through the Saphard Fund will be launched after the completion of the complete investment, in accordance with the SAPhard plan, 50% of the funds will be recovered. For these reasons, we estimate that this 12 million and 600,000 is quite enough because it is a home component for 2006 to be added to the component from the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49099	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49100	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. It can be enough, but we're all unhappy with it, because you know it, and I know that we have the Saphard fund at 150 million kuna available. That means we've predicted a lot less and that we're next year. ... I don't understand what you're saying, that in the next year we won't withdraw the funds that are at our disposal, and I ask you, we discussed it a year and a half ago when I warned that unfortunately, since we're not going at a good pace to set up certain institutions, etc., that I agree with you, but you've told me all there will be money from the access funds, we'll use them etc. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, here's the indication that we won't use them enough, because there's money at our disposal, and we won't be able to, and you've predicted in the budget that we won't be able to withdraw them. That's the problem we're talking about. It also means that when we have the opportunity to contribute almost 50% of our returns from the European Union's access funds, where we have 70% of the grants with a small participation in the Croatian State budget with a small share of our agricultural producers. We because of certain things or a lack of projects that are not yet done, whether because we have not licensed the SAPARD agency, we cannot take that step, but in any case we will, for certain reasons that definitely do not need to interest our farmers because we will not damage them in this way, withdraw the money that is available to us. I'm asking for a vote, so that at least if there's more money, we can force the government to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49101	Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 87 of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49102	The Government also does not accept this amendment, I can say with a similar explanation as for the previous amendment because this is about the component of the European Union. The mechanism of the operation of the SAPARD Fund is that the funds return to the investor at 50% after the complete investment is completed. I repeat again. In 2006, we're going to call a competition. After the call for proposals, the selection of projects and then the implementation of the projects, I am ready for the distinguished representative and his representative who submitted these amendments to make himself available and fully explain the way the SAPARD Fund works and the mechanism of functioning. And we will do this these days by all Croatian counties where we will go to meet all interested in how the SAPARD Fund works.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49103	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49104	Mr. President, Mr. Minister! Thank you for making yourself available to explain yourself to us, we should have explained more to our peasants to those to whom this will benefit today already have projects. Because what might be going on, I'm going to say something now that maybe we won't be able to use these funds either because we haven't made the advance. That's the problem, because we're late for the shops we were supposed to do. And you need to move more up-to-date, more actively with your employees, with those who work in this section to force them not to move now but even before we have too much demand to spend more money than is foreseen here. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49105	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 88th Amendment of the same MPs as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49106	The government does not accept this amendment. The funds for the Food Agency are sufficient in the planned amount of the draft budget and I must say that here we have managed to form the Food Agency and that it is doing its job for general satisfaction, which is why it finally came into being last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49107	Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49108	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I don't think a priority should be rejected because we haven't put up with these amendments to say that for someone but we think of the general good of agriculture, to strengthen the agricultural sector, and to understand all the problems that arise. Therefore, in order to carry out scientific professional activities related to the health and hygiene of food and food under the Food Act, you said that the Croatian Food Agency was established which we welcome and we think it is the right dam for the import of garbage that is now being imported into Croatia, coming in, but when that agency is working with its full capacity. The importance of this agency is not only there and its establishment is not only about this, but also about the presence of GMOs in certain foods and seeds to prove, possibly prohibit and prevent it. So we think that our laboratory, meaning the agency must be even better equipped, that it must be a reference agency that can but couples to world laboratories be and prevent all this pollution from saying one more difficult word and that Croatia is finally an acceptable destination or that at least it remains as it is. That is why we are well-intentioned to propose an increase in funds. That's why I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49109	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 89th also representing Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49110	The government does not accept this amendment for reasons based on a recorded situation... and the conditions for the construction of fishing markets we planned this amount. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]] I must stress that for the first time in the history of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy this year there has been a co-financing of the construction of a fishing wholesaler in Poreč and I believe that this is a significant step towards all previous activities of the Ministry of Agriculture in solving in a different way the complete fisheries problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49111	Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49112	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Respecting the government's efforts at every turn, we think that this amendment also contributes to improving the situation in Croatian fisheries. I think you've all heard of the whining of fishermen and, you know, a special program has been brought in for the equipment, for the construction and everything. And we welcome that. And I think this is also one of the attempts to make one shift in Croatian fishing. In fact, if we only listen to statistics on how much fish consumption in Croatia is below the average of all Europeans in the environment of countries like us, then it tells us that one segment, which is the transport of fish caught and placed on the market, means it is done in an inadequate way, in an inappropriate way and we do not deserve it. Therefore, this increase in funding would provide for at least some more appropriate transport and fish storage, and therefore this amendment has also gone in this regard. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49113	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 90th MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49114	The government does not accept this amendment to add a new position to the promotion of bio-dysela production in warfare and processing industry since the co-financing position of the technology improvement programme of the food industry already exists and the resources are sufficient in the planned budget proposal. I would also like to stress that during this year, a legislative framework for the production of bio-dyssels should be created, which is what we keep a very important component in the processing industry and related to primary agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49115	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49116	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! So we just read this position and suggested an increase of 16 million kuna to stimulate the production of bio diesel in warfare and processing industry. I don't know, Mr. Minister, if you've been thinking about this year that you're going to create a legislative framework or for next year. If this year is then this amendment has a strong basis since we have heard what it is and you are very well aware of what the situation in Slavonia is like. In addition to forests and water, the only resource we can really have in quality is the country and we can get out of the country what is best quality and what will create all assumptions that we can also be competitive with other countries, especially countries in the environment. It is our opinion that since we also have an obligation to produce from renewable energy sources was diesel, that we must put this position on the one hand to enable our agricultural producers and, on the other hand, processors to become more actively involved in the production of bio diesel. We believe that we have not only the need for this, but we also have sufficient knowledge and also quality resources. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49117	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 91st Amendment of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49118	Thank you very much. The Government does not accept this amendment for reasons that the increase in the amount is not in line with the already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49119	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49120	Thank you very much. This amendment continues on the previous one. Namely, the esteemed colleague Mato Arlović expressed the indicators in what state the economy of Slavonia, how many times we lag behind the example works only for Zagreb, from 9 to 12 times. As the war and the climate simply brought Slavonia back fiercely, to catch the connection would be said with other more developed parts of the Republic of Croatia, which is... We consider it necessary for the central government with more attention to turn to Slavonia, but not only to Slavonia. [[The speaker is not understood for ringing from the presidential post.]] Subsidising agricultural production by helping craftsmen small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. 15 million kunas are said to be only initial funds that would help the economy and especially small entrepreneurs to start running in these conditions and restrictive budgets. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49121	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 92nd Representative of the Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49122	The government does not accept this amendment because it does not comply with the redistribution of funds within the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy. Allow me, this amendment requires an increase in financial resources for the irrigation project. In this context, I would like to say that a master irrigation plan has been developed, that the government has adopted this master plan, and that according to the master plan or irrigation programme that is forecasting cca for the next three years. One hundred million investment from the 2006 state budget is sufficient. But I would also like to point out that this is not the only means yet that the irrigation programme will not only monitor the budget's financial resources but also other, other items and positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49123	Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49124	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The pilot irrigation project of Slavonia was built in 2003 during the former coalition government on 6 thousand hectares of IPK Osijek Osijek to Osijek-Baranja County as a first step and then a further 60 thousand hectares were planned. The new current government, just to remind you, took over the project in January 2004 and included it in our priorities for welcoming. Since then, however, nearly two years have passed minus 2 months and no hectare of Slavonian lands has been prepared or prepared for irrigation and neither will stand. The proposed funds of 16 million kuna are ridiculously small funds and suggest that the government does not intend to do anything about this next year. These funds may be sufficient only for the jumbo posters that have been glued to Slavonia and which indicate the government's major planned projects for this Croatian region. As a result of the projected increase of €200 million, you will show your credibility and you will tell Slavonia that you are seriously considering it, otherwise everything will remain on the mere promise to Slavonia and Slavonians. Here I am of this amendment and ready to give up if for the planned needs of the water economy, the water supply of the town of Koprivnica you will invest these funds in it but I have no doubt that you will be investing in Mayor Mršić who comes from the ranks of the other party that... There are children here who turn off the switch. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49125	You want a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49126	I'd like a vote then.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49127	Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 93rd representative Mate Arlovic, Ljubice Brdarić and Mate Gavrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49128	The government does not accept this amendment. I can give the same explanation as for the previous amendment. With the indication that all projects that are well designed and of interest this government is following up on the project pilot in Slavonia, I am very sorry that the project has not been realised and that the implementation has not started but I must remind you that there was no interested partner for the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49129	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49130	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Last year you told the same speaker in the Croatian Parliament that the Croatian Government's irrigation project puts them into strategic projects and brings them to the level of highway construction. By elaborated the amendment that we also submitted, I said, and I will repeat it this year, unfortunately, it seems not only that the irrigation is questionable but also that the highway is built. We heard from both you and your predecessors that this government has a plan, it's intended, it's taken over projects from the former government, and I'm asking you nicely to tell us when you're going to start implementing these projects. I don't know who's supposed to find the strategic partners you or some other government. Anyway, all these funds that we're talking about today and here specifically about irrigation and that you've been planning are just initial funds. I will remind you that something small and I know about this area that the irrigation system is not only project documentation or not just an irrigation device, there are water structures, there are also accumulations, retentions etc., and it is visible that there are no total items of this money. We weren't as demanding as my predecessors or fellow Pancic, we asked for an increase of only 24 million kuna, which is also just an initial asset, asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49131	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 94th Representatives Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49132	The government does not accept this amendment with the same explanation, adding that this is the project that this government has created, the project behind which this government stands, but in order for certain projects to be managed, certain assumptions must be created. For these reasons in 2006, the most important thing in spending funds is on project production and project documentation. As part of this, certain pilot projects are envisaged so that they will start implementing the programme in 2006. More significant implementation of the programme is expected in the coming years, which will be provided with sufficient funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49133	Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49134	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. I think the promise that was made in 2003 and where the irrigation programme was bombed by this government was one straw of salvation after 2003 when the disastrous drought practically destroyed Croatia and Croatia's agriculture on its knees almost and new aspects were opened, however, from the promise not to live, Mr. Minister. We want to help you with the promises and the realisation plans, which is why we are proposing bigger funds. Together I argue that these programmes could be accelerated, that they should, in fact, begin to be realised, and the preparation of the project documentation for the first year just good will, the second year to be designed, the third year maybe to secure the funds, the mandate expires, there's nothing of it. It is also a message to our peasants, ours, in general, to people who deal with agriculture, to politics do not believe in promises, but to stick to the realization of those who realize the programs. That's why under the... The program, but with more resources, and we're asking for a vote on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49135	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 95 MPs Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić and Vladimir Šišljagić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49136	Thank you very much. The Government does not accept this amendment for the simple reason that this part of the problem will also be addressed by amending and supplementing the Water Economy Act as well as by amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act established. He passed the government and was sent to this High House for adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49137	Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49138	... Mr. Minister, you just said you needed to make assumptions. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] And I think this is exactly the amendment that creates assumptions for systematic irrigation of the area and irrigation program. There are 6 thousand in Osijek-Baranja County, over 6 thousand and 200km of detailed melliorative facilities for the disposal of third and fourth-row channels that have been devastated by war and porn and have not been restored. The headship of Osijek-Baranja County has formed a detailed programme of editing these melioration channels, and it is also under way to develop a irrigation plan. I think this is absolutely necessary for the eastern part of Croatia, so I would like to ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49139	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 96th Representatives Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar. The government does not accept this amendment because the increase in the amount is not in line with the already established redistribution of funds within the positions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49141	Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49142	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to say that the clarification to this, I really didn't expect this amendment because this is about the land planning program, and unfortunately this land arrangement didn't go as expected, from year to year these funds have been reduced. However, these funds are now worth a million kunas and are really insufficient for any more serious regulation of agricultural land. We have two programs, something in cooperation with the Swedish government where this programme of arrangements would begin to develop. But I assure you that without the arrangements of agricultural land especially in those areas where we have such opportunities, where we can arrange some of the land for some perspective, about some development of agricultural production itself almost not being able to talk. Unfortunately, we have cases of high pressure on state land and our family economies and certain companies, and on the other hand, where we open up the possibility of entering some projects here we see insufficient resources or almost symbolic resources in the part for some more serious project, for some more serious development. If we want to develop agricultural production more seriously, then it is a priority in that section to regulate agricultural land. Therefore, this proposal is designed to increase these funds 5 times in the direction that certain projects are to be completed urgently, to open up the possibility of a new organisation of agricultural land because there is no agricultural production without land. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49143	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 97th representative Mate Arlovic, Mate Gavrana and Ljubice Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49144	The government does not accept this amendment by reason as well as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49145	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49146	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I've been listening very carefully to, and I'm joining my colleagues from the HSS who are pushing for significantly higher funding from the State budget to be provided for land management. Without high-quality agricultural surfaces, without disposal systems, without drainage, without irrigation is not realistic to expect in climate change such as we have a more significant step in agricultural production. I am, and so are my colleagues, glad that the Croatian Army has become involved in the cleaning of, say, channel networks that are so detached. If in 20 years, all the military, so all the military personnel and those they've brought into reserve, were to clean up the canal net, I don't think they'd be able to bring them to their senses. I know that money is never enough, but I do if we're strategically determined to invest in agricultural production, if we want to get the most out of agricultural production, then at least the necessary resources are to be provided for these jobs. We think that a million kunas for land management as much as the government planned not only isn't enough but it's also a ridiculous sum. We're looking for and expecting both support and support on the left to get the farmers on their own. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49147	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 98th Alenka Koshasha's attorney Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49148	The government does not accept this amendment and I can say that these funds will be realised from other sources through the Croatian Water Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49149	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49150	Thank you, Mr. Minister. That's the answer I heard last year. I submitted that amendment and then I got the same answer. I can tell you in complete confidence if you go around the field last year that nothing has been done this year. The residents didn't get water. It's the municipality of the Iron Area. It's about the water line Slavsko polje-Dugo Selo-Lasinjsko. It's about making documentation for 3,000 meters or 3 kilometers of sewerage. Very often, these speakers tell us about the needs in areas of special public concern. We don't have a water line in Komovovina, we don't have one in Glina, we don't have one in Lower Selisto. I don't know what you're going to answer next year for this same amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49151	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. 99th Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49152	The government does not accept this amendment and in this context I would like to say that these projects are implemented through the Croatian Water Management Plan. So they should be nominated for Croatian waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49153	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49154	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I believe we will succeed with this project at Croatian Waters. Let me just mention that it is the border municipalities of the Varazdin County and that three municipalities of special state care are included in that band, but I would like to ask that this amendment be voted on anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49155	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. And 100th Amendment MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić, Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49156	The Government does not accept this amendment for a simple reason that the increase in the amount is not in line with already established redistribution of funds within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Budget. And in this context, I would like to stress that the construction of the regional water pipeline of Croatia Zagorje is one of the projects of this government that has several financiers means through several ministries and certain bodies and that the signing of a co-financing agreement on the construction of the Croatian Waterway so that the funds will be provided with sufficient funds with planned dynamics.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49157	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49158	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. This is the Jubilee 100th Amendment, so we expected you to have a little more understanding... 101? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That with a little more understanding, you will first read and accept this amendment. Namely, the justification that the Ministry in its positions has redistributed just as much funds, I don't think it satisfies anyone and is asking the basic question of the meaning of the Croatian Parliament and of us here MPs, if the Ministry so decided not to change anything firmly, no matter what justification was put into account, or the submission of the amendment. There is sufficient information that for the entire irrigation system, i.e. the water supply system, the development of the water supply system, the government planned 33 million kuna in the budget for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Regardless of the other means, first of all, these are not enough resources to allow a shorter period of time for a large number of our households to reach drinking water, because we have problems with others, with excess water. And that's visible now in Karlovac and all those parts where the floods are enormous. It is the same in Croatian Zagorje. We did not go with a big increase, but we consider 2 million kuna increases compared to your proposal, so 5 is the total minimum for the construction of a water supply system in Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49159	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. So, the first hundred amendments have been discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, at the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy, there are 31 amendments and they would discuss and vote on these 31 amendments, and then take a break of an hour and continue with the other amendments. Therefore, when this ministry of agriculture, water and forestry ends, then there will be an hour's rest and a rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49160	Let's move on. Amendment to the 101st Lady Representative, "Dear Zgrebec." Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49161	The government does not accept this amendment because the increase in the amount is not in line with the determined redistribution within the ministry's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49162	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49163	I didn't understand. Would you repeat that, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49164	Minister, please explain a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49165	With a redistribution established within the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49166	Thank you. Namely, here I propose to increase the resources for the supply of regional water supply to Croatia Zagorje, i.e. the water supply development programme in Krapina-Zagorje County. On May 5th of this year, the government decided on a five-year water supply development programme in Krapina-Zagorje County of 280 million kuna. In other words, 56 million kuna should be provided annually. Since, even when the funds are summed up in the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and the Regional Development Fund lacks 38 million kuna in order to achieve this. Then we can really wonder how the government can make decisions that it does not respect later. However, this is usually in line with the behaviour of this government, and it is not surprising that this is also the case when budgeting. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49167	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the 102nd amendment of representatives Mate Gavran and Mate Arlovic. The 102nd Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49168	The Government does not accept this amendment for reasons because sufficient resources have been provided at the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, as well as at the positions of other ministries and bodies of the State Administration. I would like to stress here that the government understands the importance of building the first phase of Eastern Slavonia regional plumbing. For these reasons, it reached its conclusion and the 12th month will sign an Agreement on the co-financing of the construction of the first phase of the Eastern Slavonia regional water line, which is extremely important for the entire area of Vukovar-Srijem County, Brod-Posavina and part of Osijek-Baranja County. And I also want to point out that this project has been in the drawer for four years and that nothing has been done on this project. For these reasons, the Government understands the importance of this project and provides financial monitoring for the development of the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49169	Mr. Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49170	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, our government seems to only understand everything. And I'm asking you again when you're going to go and work. From what is visible in this position, only 15 million kuna for a very important project, for the water supply of Eastern Slavonia. As far as I was able to read from other positions, only 25 million kuna was provided from all ministries in the Eastern Slavonia water supply budget, which is what we consider a ridiculous sum, bearing in mind the jambo posters that have been glued to Slavonia. If I'm not mistaken for government in four years, 350 or 400 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49171	I'll say, 397.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49172	Well, thank you very much. I just don't know what illusion that is again or what magic the government will provide for 400 million kuna for the next 4 years, and at the same time for this project it has secured below 15 million kuna over the past 2 years. That's what the documents say, Mr. Minister. Last year, 2004. 6 million kuna was a realisation, and this year 9 million kuna. I heard the same answer last year when I made the budget. That's when we calculated it took 73 years to build an Eastern regional water line. It's probably what our children's kids are going to experience. And just to point out, in Brod-Posavina County, everything is 33% of the settlement with drinking water. The Croatian average is 75%. I ask you, no matter how certain I am that this amendment is, and thanks to your will and will of your position, it will not pass, but that by the year you have no chance to realize already the project. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49173	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 103. Representatives Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić, Mato Gavran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49174	The government does not accept this amendment because we believe that these funds for 2006 are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49175	Mr. Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49176	After many reasons for these previous two water lines, I don't need to explain anything. I think the Gorski Kotar is in almost the same position as the rest of the Republic of Croatia. The government will probably spend these million and a half kuna a year on the regional water line of the Gorski Kotar, and we will see how pleased the citizens in the area will be. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49177	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 104 by Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49178	The Government does not accept this amendment for reasons that it does not comply with already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49179	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49180	Well, I don't understand your explanation, Minister. Well, that's why I suggested the amendment because we don't think it's a good redistribution within your ministry. Because you predicted only a million and a half kuna for the water supply of the county that has the lowest availability of the public water supply system in Croatia. That's enough for a mile and a half of master's water supply. It is therefore a matter of building a water system in the part of the county which is less populated where the municipalities and the county can no longer bear it. But since the policy of this ministry is towards our county, it says that in 2003 we had 5 million kuna on this item, that in 2004, we had 3 million, that we had 2.5 million this year, then you took it off to 2 million and 250 thousand kuna, and for the next year you're predicting us a million and a half kuna. It takes about 270 million kunas to cover the county with the availability of a water supply system. Unfortunately, we're not talking about the need for irrigation in our county which we certainly need, we're talking about people having no water, no water or cows, and when cows don't have water then there won't be any milk. I'm really surprised that because of the redistribution, you can't predict at least some minimum funds that will be sufficient. For a million-and-a-half kuna, you can't even answer the freeway line because no building permit covers just a mile of master's waterway, you know. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49181	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 105 amendments by representatives Mato Arlović, Mato Gavran and Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49182	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that no investment-technical documentation has been prepared in an acceptable volume.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49183	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49184	Thank you very much. I know, Mr. Minister, that it's not easy for you to find some kind of excessive explanation, although it's all just not too much. Either there is no documentation where you are not or are not able to already redistribute the funds within the ministry or you simply consider that sufficient funds. As far as I know, the water supply development plan in Osijek-Baranja County planned this highway pipeline to allow as high quality development as possible and this part of Slavonia. I hope that colleagues from Osijek will support this part because it is simply, or perhaps it is agreed between the Government and Mr. Glavas, so it is not necessary, but it is certain that the funds for this highway pipeline are necessary for this part of Slavonia, or citizens, to get water. I don't know what I could explain more than I could suggest and invite my colleagues from a position to join us and at least one of these 300 and some amendments to the pass. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49185	Thank you. It doesn't age a necessary majority. 106 Amendment of Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49186	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason we believe that this is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, solving this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49187	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ante Markov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49188	Thank you very much. Since 94, Mr. Ministers, when Tisno Municipality is connected to the regional water pipeline from Krka where the water originated, it is for the restoration and establishment of a local network that should simply meet the needs of citizens, the needs of an increasing number of tourists and the needs of economic development that should unquestionably be used for having such quality resources as water and that quality water. As part of its resources, Tisno Municipality, together with its parent county company "Vodovod and sewerage" began to implement the project of water supply system facilities in its area and invested more than 2 million kunas from its own budget, which is of course not enough to arrange all of this together and of course that Croatian waters should appear as a Sufincier of that part, first of all, that part of the funds is returned to Croatian waters and they simply have interest, have reason to make the entire municipality in the 21st century and the needs and beauty that we have, and this is the first requirement for every man to have water, drinking water. I think it's just hard to say no, but if he can't, then he'd beg to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49189	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 107 amendments to the same representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49190	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that no investment-technical documentation has been prepared in an acceptable volume.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49191	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49192	Thank you very much. How I used to praise the resources and position of the Tisno Municipality, here when it comes to a different content form of trouble to say so. The Municipality of Lišana Ostrovečka is one of the poorest municipalities on the premises or in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Its income, its total budget is 850,000 kuna per year. It's about a space that was unquestionably lost in the Homeland War. About seven months ago, there was just a presentation of a book that spoke precisely about difficulties during the Homeland War that I attended with Dr. Langom, where the construction of the local water pipeline and the connection to the regional water pipeline located in Benkovac, was the priority of that municipality, which of course would at all encourage the return of the population and one normal life, the return of young people, had to have that first element of every economic development, which is a connection to the local water line and all the population was ready to support it with its own contribution within the framework of those funds which unfortunately are not enough for less things, will give their part, but without the support of the state, without the support of the Croatian waters, Mr. Minister, of course we can hardly expect this problem to be solved. It's a social, existential and almost civilization problem, because we're talking about an environment that has all the elements that can move forward to have drinking water, but unfortunately it's not there, because, well, we need to start thinking about it in another way, so that the Ministers would like you to at least a little encouragement to our locals in the Lishhana Ostrovacka municipality that you said we'll try, we'll find the elements, the ways, and we'll establish some communication over the years towards that small income of a small municipality and that way. But since that's the case, I have to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49193	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 108 amendments to the same representative. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49194	Unfortunately, the government cannot accept this amendment for a simple reason because the resources of the state budget from the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy cannot be used for these purposes. Accordingly, the local self-government should nominate the project to Croatian waters and be financed through the Croatian Water Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49195	Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49196	Mr. Minister, it is this plan for the implementation of this relatively small procedure because it is a relatively small procedure and relatively modest means that it is primarily nominated according to Croatian waters. So it's a nomination for Croatian waters and a relatively modest space that needs to be solved two villages, Slakovac and Škriline. And I think that Croatia's water would absolutely be needed, this is another year to in some way nominate the resolution of this little one, but you know, does it live in that village of 500 people or 10,000 people in a big city like Koprivnica is quite... Thirty grand, bravo. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It doesn't matter because needs are needs. He who doesn't have it, he doesn't believe the one who has it. The one who's little, he doesn't trust the big guy, and as our banks say, but I don't believe it, they say the kid would get big, they should invest in these banks. I'm afraid that's not exactly what it is, that it's just worth to the banks. If banks want to get big, then they have to act like one. It's not really working out for the citizens. Therefore, I wish we could or you could try using your authority through Croatian waters to influence to get rid of this. Relatively low funds, small, 340 thousand kuna, I would leave this to your soul and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49197	The amendment has been withdrawn. The 109th Amendment of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49198	The government does not accept this amendment with an explanation as well as for Amendment 105, which means that no investment-technical documentation on acceptable size has been prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49199	Thank you. Who's going on behalf of you? Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49200	I have received information that the documentation already exists and an ideal chance of a project like this being done together with a collector. So, on the highway section, state road D7 because they would lay pipes in the same hole and significantly cut costs. I think that once again, Minister, you should consider that part of the 236 million kuna promised by the government for the highway pipelines for Slavonia and Baranja, one part of that money, a small part of this project to get quality and drinking water for the inhabitants of these places. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49201	The amendment has been withdrawn. 110th Amendment of Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49202	The government cannot accept this amendment for the simple reason that there is no prepared investment-technical documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49203	Thank you. There are no MPs. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Zlatko Koračević, 111th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49204	I must also say that the Government does not accept amendments for reasons of non-preparation of investment-technical documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49205	There are no MPs. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ms. Ivana Posavec Krivec, 112th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49206	The government does not accept this amendment for reasons that it does not comply with the redistribution carried out within the position of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49207	Ms. Representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I can't agree with the minister's argument. Especially since it is obvious that many colleagues here today have made amendments precisely with the issue of water supply in the territory of Croatia and it is obviously a burning problem. This amendment is specifically focused on Zagreb and Sisak-Moslavina County. It is the regional waterway of Moslavina Posavina, which is in construction, which is in the final stage and for this stage it is necessary to allocate 21 million and 300 thousand kuna. It is a project that supported Croatian water, a project that would provide drinking water for nearly 30,000 inhabitants of the island's Ivanic area. It is the area of the town of Ivanić City, the municipality of Križji Kloštar. So, areas that haven't been solved by drinking water. This amendment is realistic precisely because this plan and the projection of the 2007 and 2008 budget provide 3 million kuna for each year. And I ask that we vote on this amendment precisely because only a million and a half kuna has been allocated for 2006. And this project can be completed in two years. So, if we transfer the funds planned for 2008 to this year, we'll secure the population of this area through 2 years of drinking water. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49209	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 113th Amendment of Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49210	The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49211	There are no MPs. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 114 of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49212	The government does not accept this amendment and I must stress that this investment cannot be financed from the positions and resources of the state budget but must be nominated according to Croatian waters through the Croatian Water Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49213	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. It is very well known to all of us what "Liburnia" means for Croatian tourism and how much money in the state budget is coming from this region of Matulija, Opatija, Lovran to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. For 70 million kuna, all things would be resolved in "Liburnia" and its hinterland, which would, of course, contribute to making the fuller budget of the Republic of Croatia from the area of "Liburnia". I'm proposing a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49215	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Didn't get the required majority [[Intruder: Please count.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49216	We've got most of it. We've got most of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49217	The amendment didn't go through.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49218	And how do you know that?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49219	He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49220	Based on what?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49221	We are moving on to the 115th Amendment of Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49222	The government does not accept this amendment and this can be realised through the Croatian Water Management Plan. He doesn't accept the amendment to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49223	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49224	I'm not an explanation if you can repeat it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49225	Okay, if you need me, I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49226	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49227	The government does not accept this amendment and this investment can also be nominated for monitoring through the Croatian Water Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49228	But it's already nominated there in this. However, it is a 76 million kuna investment without VAT and it is impossible to carry it through Croatian waters because Croatian waters have too little budget for all that will be nominated in Croatian waters. And after that, I'll have another amendment where you've given only 35 million for all the devices in Croatia. Therefore, since it is a device that addresses the issue of wastewaters of the town of Koprivnica, as well as the waters that enter Drava and therefore also the Podunavska Sliv, which is a regional project, I think it should be financed directly from the state budget because in this pre-accession time Croatia would have to solve these environmental problems it has. One of the environmental problems is the protection of the waters of Podunavski Sliva, and this is the largest device in the Danube plum currently being built by Croatia. Therefore, an item should be provided to allow the device to be built as agreed within 18 months. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49229	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 116th Amendment of Ms. Alenka's MP, Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49230	The government does not accept this amendment and an explanation similar to the previous amendments should be nominated through the Croatian Water Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49231	There's no representative. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 117th amendment of MP Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49232	The government does not accept this amendment for a reason because it cannot invest those investments. The Croatian waters should be nominated through the Croatian Water Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49233	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49234	I, Mr. Minister, can understand this argument of yours only in the formal section, but the problem of disposal in the city of Sisak and resolution projects and not in the entire area of the city is heavy 70m euros. The town of Sisak starts next year with its 10 million for the Galbovo settlement and the agreement is to go over Croatian waters with 5 million. If we don't go we'll never end it, we've started talks with the EBRD, I'm also thinking about a concession model, but let's let a country where the state budget is 100 billion kuna, and the budgets of all cities, municipalities and counties of 6 billion kunas can't expect a city or a small municipality to make it out of their own resources. That's not gonna work. That's what I'm asking for. The Galbovo settlement, the Green Brieg village with 14 thousand people, so it's not God's foot, it's parts of the town of Sisak. We can't finance this project on our own. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49235	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 118th Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić and Vladimir Šišljagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49236	The government does not accept this amendment for reasons to be realised from other sources through the Croatian Water Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49237	Mr. Shislagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. It is known that we have been looking for other sources of funds, but this amendment also asks for State budget funds. It's a collector in the Chepin area where drain water is largely poured into an open canal network. This endangers two water supply sites and leads to a major potential risk of an epidemic. I stress that some of the funds are secured by the loan, but due to the need to move part of the collector, due to the route D-7 of the state road, additional costs of 25 million kuna have emerged. Therefore, we have submitted an amendment to the State budget in part of 8 million kuna for 2006 and I ask you to support it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49239	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 119th Amendment of Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49240	The government does not accept this amendment and this investment can be realised from other sources through the Croatian Water Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49241	Thank you. Mr. Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49242	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I would just like to point out that the western part of Sibenik-Knin County is indeed one of the most valuable natural resources, natural reserves that are really necessary to regulate in accordance with the biggest environmental standards, with the needs of modern ways of communicating with nature. The new Law on Spatial Planning explicitly said that the areas of the island and the coast to be able to enter into the realisation of spatial plans must have resolved sewage ecosystem solutions to drain and sewerage. That is why this is exactly how you said about the municipality of Tisno and the municipality of Pirovac, it is necessary for Croatia's waters to be involved in this project which has already in some way brought to life and it needs a complete element and precisely in the item of Croatian Waters, and I believe that you, as a resolute minister, will be best able to suggest and that approach and such a solution, and in this sense I also convey to you the opinions of the local self-government that they believe that you will succeed in the next period in pointing to the Croatian waters in the necessity to just invest in these positions and in the way you yourself have stated. Well, I'm clearly withdrawing the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49243	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. 120th Amendment of Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49244	The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49245	The gentleman is not present. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 121st Representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49246	The government does not accept this amendment because there is no and no investment-technical documentation has been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49247	Mr. Representative, Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49248	Here's to announce that soon the documentation in this project will be completed, this project is of great importance for environmental protection especially in the area of Međimurje, which is where I come from. This would preserve a landscape that is extremely rich in animal and plant species, which is one of the most valuable areas, not only in Croatia but in Europe. It's about the mouth of the river, so Mura in the river Drava. I think this should go into this project as soon as possible, and in order to preserve it, we need to build a system, a unique system from Prelog to Kotriba, so the Lower Seer of Holy Mary. It is therefore a joint project that supports and said municipalities and the city of Prelog, and I think you should certainly get support in this budget, so I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49249	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 122nd amendment of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49250	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment and can be realised through the Croatian Water Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49251	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49252	Well, he can, but he won't, will he? We, from Koprivnica, stand out over 10 million kuna a year with the basis of water protection. We haven't even gotten lip in the last three years. Now I've seen that in this budget you have the White Manastir, the Parish and some other cities where you've put them to fund it. I don't see any reason why you don't get a little money that you collect in Koprivnica every year back to Koprivnica to build a disposal system, at least in that part it's only 4 kilometers of the drain system, so it's about building the main collector that's usually being financed, which is currently under construction and costing 8 million kuna. I don't think there's any reason not to return 4 million kuna from the state budget of 10 million you're going to take in Koprivnica next year and just for those purposes. Be careful, you take 10 million kunas in Koprivnica for water protection, you redistribute them elsewhere, and we must build the main collector from the funds of the Koprivnica taxpayers that we directly collect. I think it's totally unfair because Croatia's waters in the last 3 years haven't even returned the limes to Koprivnica as far as the drain system is concerned, and as far as the water supply is concerned, we said that it was at a level of 2 km of highway water supply. I'm asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49253	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 123rd of representatives Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49254	The Government does not accept this amendment for reasons that it does not comply with already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Mr. Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49255	Mr. Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49256	One brief explanation. I think we all know that Samobor is underdeveloped and Zapresic is a poorly developed system of protection against the floodwaters of the Sava River and the local community itself is not strong enough and does not have enough resources. That's why this amendment was initiated. And here's the explanation of Mr. Minister that he has no funds and that on the other hand it was done, I am still asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49257	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. 124. Representatives Branimir Glavas, Drmiš and Šišljagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49258	The government does not accept this amendment. The government will appoint a commission to which representatives of the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County will enter and will work to address the mosquito problem systematically both in Osijek-Baranja County and the commission will also be appointed to the Vukovar-Srijem County.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49259	Mr. Šišljagic, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49260	Thank you very much. Here, the problem of mosquitoes and mosquitoes during summer months is really big. I am very pleased that both the government and the competent ministry have experienced themselves to analyse this problem of how many problems in Osijek-Baranja County, in Vukovar-Srijem, the population also has in the summer months. So, since both the public and the government and the ministry have committed themselves to participating in this programme to say the fight against mosquitoes and to take on certain non-small financial commitments borne by the city of Osijek and the Osijek-Baranja County, I once again use the opportunity and thank you. I hold you to my word and withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49261	The amendment has been withdrawn. 125th Amendment of MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49262	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the budget appropriations are sufficient because this is a form of co-financing of defences against fighting where other factors are involved in co-financing of defences against fighting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49263	Thank you. Mr. Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49264	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I'm taking the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to express my satisfaction to both personally and many, and I welcome the government's decision to proceed with the active defense against the fight. But I can't agree with you or our government that 5 million kunas is enough to defend against a fight or that's just different in its part of the Law on Defense against Fight. In the end, all those who have experienced unfortunately icy clouds and fights know how much money they have received on that basis. And on the other hand, I'll tell you that only damage in the area of Brod-Posavina County in the previous year exceeded 25 million kuna as far as we propose for this position. If you go after the commitment and I hold that you will keep your promises and not only remain declarative in the words that both investment in networks and everything else, protection from the fight will be better represented in budgets and then not enough... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49265	This is system co-financing. In order to avoid confusion, this item is not co-financed by the fight but by co-financing of the system for the functioning of the fight defence system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49266	I know ministers. I apologize, someone keeps shutting me down. I join Mršić, there are probably those who don't know from boredom what we're going to bring the most important document for next year. So, I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49267	/The speaker is not on, you can't hear it./
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49268	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I know this is really just a position to defend against a fight and I know Mr. Minister that you're working against your own interests, and I think and I know that you're doing things differently and you think differently, but that's how it is. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49269	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. 126. Representatives Mato Arlović, Mato Gavran, Ljubica Brdarić, so the same. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49270	The government does not accept this amendment. And as I have already said in one of the previous amendments on a similar topic, this problem of solving a detailed channel network will be addressed in accordance with the amendments and additions to the Water Economy Financing Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49271	Thank you. Mr. Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49272	I thank my colleagues... Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament! [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Of course, amending and supplementing the Water and Water Economy Act will do something, but I must say that these funds that will be raised on this basis will not be nearly enough to ensure the construction and renewal of the canal network in Slavonia, Baranja, Eastern Slavonia and West Srijem. It is the first war areas, the areas in which the canal network is completely detached or almost entirely except for some works that started this year and last year where the canals are completely blocked, where there are no bushes but trees have grown in these 15 years in these canals and where the fact is that, due to the insinuation of the canal network, the catastrophic floods that cause huge damage in the Republic of Croatia in the agricultural and food industry are actually caused. And the fact is that in one year these damages are several times greater than these funds are proposed that should ensure the editing of the channel network. As for the amendment and addition of the Water Economy Fund Act and the Water Act, they need to comply with the laws of the European Union, and in such a segment, it is somewhat different in terms of the distribution of funds to finance the construction of a canal and maintenance of a canal network than it is usually said that we will be able to secure from these funds. We won't be able to secure them, we'll have to look for either budget or credit funds. In any case, the existing funds as well as the funds that we will collect from the title of new amendments to the law will not be sufficient to meet all these needs and in this respect I demand that the vote be voted on on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49273	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to the 127th representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49274	The government does not accept this amendment but this project will be implemented through Croatian waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49275	Thank you. Mr. Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49276	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Just a brief clarification. ... which is located in the Municipality of Kolan on Pag is really very important for this small and beautiful tourist resort that would give it a complete and quality supply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I see that you understand that, and I hope that, in accordance with our obligation of the Island Law and the need for water to be provided on all our islands of this place, we will be able to provide these relatively modest means of making this water-supply and cover all the places in Kolan municipality, to be covered with water-supply. And that we can say for the next tourist season that we will welcome more quickly in that part of the Republic of Croatia, that we will be able to surprise our guests practically but believe us we will surprise both hosts and guests if we do so. And I really want to believe you that we are going to do this and in terms of what we discussed earlier about mosquitoes, let's not one by one let us mosquitoes throughout the Republic of Croatia try to destroy them because there are equally in Osijek, Đakov, Koprivnica and Dalmatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49277	What about the amendment? The amendment has been withdrawn. 128th Amendment of Representative Jakša Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49278	The government does not accept this amendment and, in line with the co-financing, should address and go to the Croatian Water Management Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49279	Thank you. Mr. Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49280	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This amendment concerns the water supply of Zagreb and Zagreb rings. And that wouldn't be weird, you know, I didn't give for Dalmatia or Slavonia the amendments for the simple reason that the Prime Minister and Minister Kalmeta are coming from Dalmatia, I hope they took care of everything down there, and Slavonia was taken care of by the prime minister at the store with Djapic, and there was Minister Cobankovic, who certainly meant Slavonia. And since I got a hint from Zagreb County that Minister Schuker is not hearing much about Zagreb County and it is a big problem. Namely, this area of Zagreb and Zagreb ring with Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorje County has about a million and 200 thousand people. Two hundred and fifty thousand people, so two hundred and fifty thousand poor women don't have water. There's no water connection. Gemists have if they buy, if they buy a mineral. And on that behalf, on behalf of 250 thousand and the poor woman, I have proposed this amendment, because you must know that in rich Zagreb today there are settlements that do not have water that drink water on that pump, or take water at that pump, at that pump. And it would have been good if this amendment had been accepted because this is only initial, you know, big money needed for these 250 thousand people. But that's when they don't have any other hearings, I've shown good faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49281	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority and the store wasn't proven and it wasn't a trade debate. 129. The amendment of the representative of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49282	The government does not accept this amendment. The increase in the amount is not in line with already established redistribution of funds within the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49283	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49284	But Mr. Minister, that's an argument contrary to the Budget Law. You know, because if something isn't, and if something is contrary to the distribution already established, then they can't even submit an amendment, so the amendments are submitted in order to determine the different allocations of funds within the budget. And I suggest here, therefore, that a redistribution be made so that all those you have instructed to report to Croatia for purification can be contacted because you have predicted 35 million kunas for 31 devices. If they all come forward, they can average a million and 100,000 kunas, which means they won't be built purifiers. So, I propose that instead of 35 million kunas, 100 million kunas are foreseen and that it is indeed possible for those who have the necessary documentation and who will be able to arrange for the construction of the purifier to come to Croatia for the water that you have referred us to, the 10th amendment that we have submitted so that we can really get some funds and ensure that waste water treatment devices are built. But I ask you equally to correct your argument because the essence of the amendment is that there would be a redistribution of money within the budget. If you claim that the reason for the refusal of the amendment is because it is contrary to this, then it is your argument contrary to the Budget Law, so I will ask that this vote be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49285	Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 130. Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić and Vladimir Šišljagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49286	The government does not accept this amendment. And this accumulation will be done through the program of water management of Croatian waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49287	Ivan Drmic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49288	For a few years now, it's been moving out of the plan for this year, so it's moving in next year. I hope that this project in this year's year bar will start to come true because this accumulation is very important because of the frequent floods in the area, you saw that this year when it was raining, it was flooded and about 10,000 hectares of land were threatened. Also in the irrigation plan in Slavonia Baranja, this lake is important in achieving this programme. So I hope the Ministers that Croatian waters will do something in this area this year. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49289	The amendment has been withdrawn. 131th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49290	The government cannot accept this amendment for a reason because there is no investment technical documentation in an acceptable volume.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49291	Thank you. In the name of the club, Mr. Representative Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The old town core of Buzet and Buja was built during Venice, and then these cities had and still have the sewer that was made at the time. Of course, these cities have taken you as a priority solution in the old town's sewerage core and therefore expect the ministry to provide support in this sense of six million kunas that would certainly be welcome to go into the realization of a new sewer in the old city's cores of Buzet and Buje. I expect the acceptance of this amendment at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49293	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank you all, Minister too. And the session breaks down by and starts exactly at 15.10 minutes because it's doing what we did to extend it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49294	Quorum 78. The Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. State Secretary Drazen Breglec, Amendment 132. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49295	The amendment is not accepted. During 2006, a significant number of RCPs will be financed and resolved as part of major procedures on corridors 5B and 5C, as well as on crust 10 so that the funds in the budgetary position T570375 amounting to 25 million kuna are intended for individual resolutions on other railways and it is necessary to say that the RCP resolution programme that is yet to be obtained before its adoption is adopted is another round of alignment with local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49296	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49297	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary, I fully understand the priorities of type 5C and of course I agree with them. However, these very procedures over, individual procedures that you've been talking about as planned and the program I think these three investments would be necessary, and that's why I'm asking for an increase in this item for one reason that at these transitions in the last 3.4 years, a greater number of people have died. And another thing about Caprak crossing is that children go to school every day through this unprotected transition. Therefore, the pasarella is in the interest of a large number of very poor populations living close by. I'm asking you to consider it and at least next year you'll take care of it. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49298	Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 133. Representatives Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49299	The amendment is not accepted. Compared to the 2005 budget, the total funds intended to finance investment projects in mobile, rail capacity in the 2006 budget totaled 80 million kuna. More significant amounts for the purchase of new motor vehicles are planned in the coming years as part of the 2007 Budget projections. The names of individual budgetary positions shall be in line with the names and purposes of the main budgetary programmes in which the budgetary positions are located. Positioning, implementation of the title position is based on principles and procedures of program awakening. So 130 million kuna as the most important part of the response, I underline, has been secured in the 2006 budget, i.e. total increase in funds by 130 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49300	Representative Alenka, representative Mato Arlović, vice president, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49301	Mr. President, dear secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The integration and entry of Croatia into the European Union is not only about the coordination of economic, cultural, legislative and in-house issues but also about roads and traffic integration. We are afraid that it might be very easy to happen that unfortunately our trains with our wagons will not be able to transport unless they meet all the conditions and all the criteria that these railways or these railways will be awarded in a concession on which railway companies will drive from European Union countries. That's the first one. Secondly, what we are objectively warning is the fact that resolving rail transport is very important in order to bring integrated transport into line in the Republic of Croatia especially on corridors 10, 5C, B and corridor B for the simple reason why it is necessary to ensure their integration in line with road, river and maritime transport. Of course, air traffic. The third important question is that the equipment, the reconstruction of the nodes, the purchase of freight wagons of tow trains is actually the same as the activity of which some of our companies are engaged and which can provide quality jobs for... companies hire their capacities, hire their workers and not only their workers but create new jobs and employment and it is obvious that in fact this form of infrastructure, transport infrastructure cannot be just ignored and put aside and therefore it is necessary to make far more of money available than it did last year, because last year, the money that should have been provided for the reconstruction and development of road, rail, is therefore the best way to show that we are one year late with the realization of the project that should otherwise... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] rails to the upper and lower rail transport unit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For all these reasons, we are proposing this amendment and we are asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49302	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 134.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49303	The amendment is not accepted in relation to the 2005 Budget, as we have already said, the funds have been increased by a total amount of 130 million kuna. In the 2006 budget. For the purpose of financing investment procedures related to freight wagons during 2006, the necessary funding is planned, through the negotiation of new credit lines with domestic financial institutions, as well as with Eurofim as the most favourable form of credit in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49304	The Secretary of State will wait for me to pronounce the name of the motionor or the motionary of the amendment, and then give an explanation. AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49305	Thank you. I'd just like to warn my colleague of the following. In this item for the purchase of new freight wagons your position is zero. I would remind you that in the 2003 HZ business plan, 2007, the four-year plan provides for the purchase of these freight wagons in the amount of 1547 wagons, which has so far been implemented by letter and 50 wagons, in the term of the previous Government. The application of this Law enables foreign operators to enter our railways. the possibility of carrying out cargo on our tracks with their tow vehicles and wagons. By giving up the scheduled purchase of freight wagons, HZ will not be able to increase the quality of service in freight transport or provide sufficient wagons for the needs of freight transport. In addition to this purchase of new wagons, it enables the structure of the wagon to be adjusted to the needs of the market. It increases the availability of transport capacities and greatly reduces costs and maintains exploitation by uniting maintenance. By obtaining these wagons, the Croatian economy also receives directly because our companies such as Djakovic and Gredelj have a chance to get a job on this one. We are also talking about reducing unemployment and raising standards. I think you really need to think a little bit better and more carefully about how much you're going to put on that item and ask for this amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49306	Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 135th Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49307	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed increase in the amount of 3 million kuna refers to the recovery of the Pasarela overpass, on the Susak-Caprak Corridor railway at the part of corridor 10. The 10 rail corridor projects starting in 2006 will be financed on the burden of budget and pre-accession ISPA funding, resulting in investments in infrastructures and facilities in the function of transport transactions on corridor 10 in excess of billions of kuna, as mentioned in the 2006-2008 Budget projections.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49308	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49309	I'm happy to hear these investment announcements. But let me say it one more time. The settlement... and Željezar is the size of one Petrinja or Metkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An entire town of 17,000 people is passing 8 tracks to get to the train station. Pasarella was killed in the war. It's all out. We, as a city, can't even because it's not even city land. We're gonna get somebody killed. We can't wait. If there is any possibility of the city entering with one part, the Croatian railways with one part may be obtained from the Ironworks throughout. Let's try to figure it out next year so it doesn't delay anymore because it's just too dangerous under the car, we're getting people through. I'm not asking for a vote, because I think it's all clear how it's gonna go, but I'm asking us to find a solution. I don't care whether you accept the amendment here or not. But let's see if anything can be done through the Croatian railway. I'm not looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49310	You're withdrawing the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49311	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49312	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 136th Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49313	The amendment is not accepted. Compared to the 2005 budget, the total funds intended to finance investment projects in mobile rail capacity for the 2006 budget They've been increased as we've already said for 130 million kunas. [[A little louder, please.]] More significant purchases of new motor trains were planned in the next years in the 2007 and 2008 budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49314	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49315	Thank you. The draft budget does not provide for any new motor furniture. The business orientation of HZ was based on the decision of this Assembly which adopted the business plan of the Croatian Railways, just before I said 2007, 2003/2007. the restructuring and modernisation strategy was envisaged. The strategy and modernisation were based on the restoration of infrastructure, and the rolling stock, i.e. the acquisition of... It provides for the purchase of 13 sets of slope trains of which the purchase of 8 sets is realised for the mandate of the former Government, as well as the purchase of 71 motor furniture which are intended for use in suburban transport and on shorter passenger relations up to 2 hours of driving. [[Because of the bell from the presidential post, the speaker can't be heard.]] Realisation of this adopted business plan would result in an increase in the quality of passenger transport services, an increase in capacity, a reduction in travel time and a frequent transport offer that would allow HZ to become the chief manager and practically a guide in passenger transport by 2007. The lack of supply of these motor trains... The development of the railway in the direct place of taxpayers, as they remain without the cheapest means of transport, therefore, it is necessary to provide these funds. [[Because of the bell from the president's post, the speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not asking to vote for the amendment, I'm asking for money in this position.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49316	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. One hundred and seventy-seven representatives of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49317	The amendment is not accepted. Luka... It is classified as a port of local importance to the activities of recovery, reconstruction of buildings under construction and construction of ports open to public transport in the area of county, appropriate funds have been proposed to finance the maintenance of ports of county and local importance and primarily to ensure regular maintenance of shipping lines of national importance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By setting priorities for 2006 by the ministry, the ministry will approach the recovery and reconstruction of ports in the area of the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49318	Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49319	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Luka Trget is located in Raška Bay one of the most beautiful bays on our coast. As such, it cannot provide people in the area or the whole community with better development until, as such, it can come into such a position that it can fully satisfy the development of the region. The problem is that there is also the port of Barsica, which has been stagnating for years and has recently been used by a company and is being devastated daily. We expect the Ministry of State that you are the Secretary of State to become the port of Barsica of county importance, where, together with the port of Trget, it will become an integral part of the development in this sense, and therefore I expect the port of Trget to be taken in this case with these small money to start along with the port administration and the budget of the municipality of Raša of 2 million kuna, which would at first satisfy the start of the reconstruction or the construction of a new port, I expect a positive solution and please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49320	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 138. And also Agent Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49321	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the Law on maritime good and seaports, maintenance of infrastructures open to public transport of county importance is financed from concession fees, port fees and funds from the county budget. The ferry port of Brestova is classified as a port of county importance and according to data held by the ministry belongs to ports which can be fully financed from port fees due to extremely high traffic. Luka Rabac is also an port of county importance but is not primarily aimed at ensuring regular, public, coastal or low maritime traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49322	Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49323	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, the port of Brestova is the most important port with which the Istrian islands of Cres and Lošinj are connected to the mainland. I believe that I say again from these small funds with the project and with the resources of the port administration of Rabac and 3 million kuna, which could come from the state budget at the expense of the port administration could continue to reshuffle the port of peaches itself because Jadrolini also bought her new and larger ferrys and thus these ferrys could be used on the track between Brest and Porozina. Which, of course, would avoid the great summer crowds. It's about the port of Brestov. And as for Rabac port, Rabac port is the only port between Opatija and Pula that can accept and will have to accept tourists on that stock, you know what happens during the great infidelity in Kvarner that simply people at those moments have no place to go. We expect this because the Rabac port administration has issued a building permit, provided funds, credit funds, secured funds from the county budget and from the city budget that we call this symbolic 2 million kunas to help the Rabac port administration get to the root of the harbor and end the coastal wall in the course of this year. I expect to accept such an amendment after all. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49324	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 139. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49325	The amendment is not accepted. Within 5570360, the modernisation of the construction of the track on corridor 5 D, the activities of the start of the system change are financed... on shares of Škrljevo-Bakar and activities on the construction of the second track on the railway Long Village-Križevci. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The allocated funds amounting to 50 million kuna are time and financially consistent with the planned activities and in the next period they have the trend of increasing as seen in the 2007 budget projections when 344.38 million kuna and budgets are planned for 2008 when planned... A million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49326	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49327	I would just beg the Secretary of State if it could be a little louder, it's hard to hear the explanation. You know, you said it was consistent with dynamics... The railroad has come to the entrance to the railway station Križevci and has been standing there for three years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The railroad is to be remounted from entering the railway station Križevci to the state border. It is necessary to build a second track on the part of the Long Village to the state border and to rebuild the railway from Zagreb to Karlovac, i.e. the construction of the second track from Karlovac to, from Zagreb to Duga Resa. For these 50 million kunas you predicted in 2006 enough for... let alone some preparatory work be done on that corridor, where in the 9th month, high cargo traffic was made to the goods of that corridor and the railways, and indeed is in danger of reducing the traffic of goods and passengers because there is simply no money to maintain the railway on the Križevci-State border because it is in that condition because it invites after the remont. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even in projections, we saw what projections mean, because usually projections are treated differently next year. So neither the 700 million you set out in the 2007 and 2008 projections are enough to build a second track between the Long Village and the Cross, let alone all the rest of what you said. I think it stops the development of the railway, i.e. that not the development but that this level of traffic will be stopped and I insist on voting on an amendment where I ask that 50 million kuna be foreseen this year for a 50m euro corridor of 5B.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49328	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 140, also represented by Zvonimir Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49329	The amendment is not accepted. The names of individual budgetary positions shall be in line with the names and purposes of the main budgetary programmes in which the budgetary positions are located. The position of the implementation of the title position is based on principles and procedures for programme awakening. As part of the 1204 modernisation of Croatian Railways, the budgetary position of T-570377 is envisaged for environmental protection and 35.72 million kuna has been provided, which is an increase of 15.7 million kuna compared to 2005. The purposely provided means also refer to the recovery of environmentally unacceptable facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49330	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49331	I would like to say, therefore, that the car wash in Botovo has been used for over 35 years, and that for the last 15 years it has been used as the only car wash, freight wagons in Croatia, that it is located next to the Drava River and that for three years it has been predicted to be rescheduled. Therefore, I insist that it be defined within this common item that it is indeed 10 million kuna for the recovery of that car wash. Because what you're saying is that 15% of the funds for environmental protection in the Railways are increased, they don't mean anything to us because nothing was done last year. Except you bought matches for the railroads who had twice set fire to that oil that ran out of the wagon that you washed afterwards, so we had a little more smoke up the Drava River. I remind you that it is located right next to Lake Shoderica, which is a big bath all over the region, and I think that the government of the Republic of Croatia and your Ministry and the Croatian Railways have a final obligation to build a car wash in Slavonski Brod, i.e. the next year there is a recovery of that freight wagon laundromat, which is one of the key environmental problems that the railways have produced, which we have in Podravina along the Drava River. What we're finally protecting with, then, the Danube plum. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49332	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 141st Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49333	The amendment is not accepted. The area of investment in regional railways during 2006 will be handled programmeically in such a way as so far-handled railways of international and local character. The guaranteed amount of 10 million kuna in position T-570367 in the modernisation of the construction of regional railways refers to priority investments with the aim of maintaining optimal level of security, and the main criterion... the means are based on the work of a particular railway, i.e. by passenger and freight transport on a particular rail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49334	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49335	Thank you. Comrade Secretary of State, your presentations are very interesting regarding the programmes, but I must tell you firsthand that the journey from Zagreb to Sisak extends every year, each year we give the same amendment, and nothing happens on the track. Even more than that transport already surpasses the hour, over an hour and people who are not by their fault condemned to daily migration to come to Zagreb for work or return to Sisak more are driving in these cars, not as in modern cars of the Croatian Railways but as in the G wagons, and the time it takes to transport it will not even talk about it. It's getting longer every year from amendments to amendments. Well, apart from the program, I'd like to ask that we vote on this amendment in the sense that next year at least we have some slightly increased funds at that service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49336	The vote. Who's up for the amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. 142, also a representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49337	The amendment is not accepted. The Zagreb railway node at the present stage is not fully in line with local and county authorities. For the purposes of further development of the project at position 570307, the study investment and technical documentation for railway infrastructure in 2006 provided funds of 25 million kuna. The start of the physical realization of the capital of investment procedures starts in 2008 and a 254.08 million kuna insurance is foreseen as part of the 2008 budget projections. As this is also the last amendment from the railway area, let me point out that the total detachment from the railway budget is slightly smaller, 37 and a half million kuna compared to nearly 2 billion 900, we can say that it is 1.3% lower budget. However, out of the total within the distribution of 230 million kuna less for subsidies, resulting from current investment restructuring, and 197 and a half million kunas thus increased investment. So investments also in modernisation, so both in transport capacity and in infrastructure are actually confirmed compared to last year through this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49338	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49339	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, as far as the agreements and negotiations with the county are concerned, I don't think there's any obstacle to starting this right away, and it could have started two years ago. As far as projections are concerned, we can talk about it at some other time. But the draft budget did not plan to modernise this railway node, which was provided for in the 52003 documents. I have to react here as a representative in front of VI. Election units, but also as a member of the city congregation, because this presents a serious problem, both for people living in this metropolis. But even more, as I just pointed out to those who use it as part of the region daily in their working migrations. Giving up investment in the modernisation of the Zagreb knot is also giving up the concept of the inclusion of Croatian railways in the resolution of the public transport of the City of Zagreb with which the City of Zagreb has a very, very big problem. And especially I say, and wider regions. It is also a denial of the fact that Zagreb is a political, cultural, scientific, touristic, economic and all-ino centre that we all talk about all the time, and directly affects the overall social position of people who have to travel daily. It should be pointed out that this railway node also plays an important role in the international and internal integration of the city of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia because the main highway tracks involved in the pan-European corridors are crossing and just passing through the city of Zagreb. I am asking for this amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49340	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 143, MP Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49341	The amendment is not accepted. The planned implementation of the projects launched to co-finance the construction of ships for Croatian shipowners and fishing fleets in 2006 will continue, co-financed, refurbishment and modernisation of fishing fleets, as well as co-financing of passenger and excursion fleets.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49342	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49343	Thank you very much. I don't think it was necessary to explain that item because exactly what you're saying, Mr. Secretary, is the meaning of this item in the budget. However, I wanted to say something different with this amendment, which is that in the conditions when our country joins the European Union, ours and the fishing fleet will find themselves in serious trouble so that the funds provided for in this amendment were too small and too small, however, we would help this and the fishing fleet and the passengers to cope with the coming competition. That's one side of the medal. The other side of the medal is that these relatively small funds for the state budget would have an indirect effect, as it would encourage the development of Croatian shipyards, and as the representatives of the Government in many performances also keep emphasising themselves and are very happy to take pictures of some new constructions in the shipyards, and therefore I would like to ask that the vote declare ourselves on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49344	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 144, Agent Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49345	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds amounting to one million kuna for the first time in the division of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development shall provide funds for these purposes. Following the public tender and setting criteria for the allocation of funds, the planned funds will be used for the 2006/2007 school year. and will continue with this project in future school budget years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49346	Representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Croatia has a long tradition of maritime schooling, starting with a copper maritime school as one of the most prized maritime universities in this part of Europe via Losinj, Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik, etc., and later by opening the university and the maritime colleges from which many captains and engineers and ship's electronicists have sailed under the Croatian flag, today they are most forced to fuck under foreign flags around the world because in the process of conversion and privatisation we destroyed a good part of Croatian shipping. In my day we enrolled in a copper boat of two parallel classes, today we no longer have students for any class. One reason is that we don't have our own ships, and the other is that schooling is expensive and after the student graduates from high school or from the Faculty of Maritime Affairs according to international conventions, it is necessary to take extra exams and each of the pockets to single out 20 thousand kunas in the beginning before boarding the ship. I think this amount is commendable, because for the first time in the budget, this item is included, but when we have already taken that step it needs another step because it is insufficient and I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49348	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 145, attorney for Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49349	The amendment is not accepted. According to its content, it is identical previously, at a different amount. There's no need to repeat the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49350	I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49351	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 146, MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49352	The amendment is not accepted. The development of inland ports for this purpose provides for funding at the position of the State budget of A570447 construction and maintenance of port buildings in ports of national importance, which is significantly above the amendment of the requested amount. It is apparent from the above that the development of internal water ports is not envisaged but is envisaged in the second position. Therefore, it is not that the development of the port is not intended for the funds but is envisaged in the second position.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49353	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. 147, Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49354	The amendment is not accepted. The interpretation is as for Amendment No 146, i.e. the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49355	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49356	Mr. Secretary of State cannot accept the fact that an item that is equal to zero has been placed on the internal river waterways. I just can't accept it. Before the Homeland War, the active river waterway was one of the carriers of the economic development of the town of Sisak and the proposed amount is requested precisely for the revitalisation of the port of Sisak. Otherwise, I believe that we can put this topic one day as the thematic session of this Maritime Committee, because I think that this transportation in Croatia is very important and the waterways of the interior, Rijeka are very important. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49357	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 148, Zdenko Antesic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49358	The amendment is not accepted. According to information, the project holders of the Lika-Senj County port administration project have not produced the necessary project and technical documentation for this project. An environmental impact study has been carried out for three months after which a location permit should be established, the main project is developed and the building permit can be completed and the implementation project can be developed. The building permit is estimated to be completed in the second part of 2006 so it is realistic to expect the beginning of works, and thus the possible realization of the item only below the end of 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49359	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49360	Thank you very much. The second half of 2006 was also in 2006. So by not putting money on this item, so the article of Luke Stinica, which, according to my information, should be completed before the deadline that you said, Mr. Secretary of State, I think it shows the very real concern of this government towards the islands and connecting the island to the mainland. In all the announcements by both the State Secretary for the Sea and other government officials in charge of this problem, it has been repeated several times that it will be provided in the 2006 state budget for the Stinica port. Luka Stinica is necessary for the normal transport connection of Rab Island to the mainland, as the existing port of Jablanac does not correspond to the smallest ones not to say traffic, but also safety conditions for the functioning of Rab Island with the mainland. I don't see any reason not to put such relatively modest funds into the state budget, but moreover, to repeat the words of state officials, precisely from your ministry who have several times even been to sign various contracts in Stinica, in Jablanac for this purpose, and now it's amazing that you don't find any swearings in the state budget to build this port. So I urge that we put that item in the budget and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49361	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 149, attorney Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49362	The amendment is not accepted. At the activities of 570219 the rehabilitation and reconstruction of building and upgrade facilities in ports open for public transport in the county area, appropriate funds have been proposed to finance the maintenance of ports of county importance. After the procedure and alignment with the county port administrations, criteria and funding priorities as well as funding from the state budget for this purpose are set out.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49363	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49364	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I would just like to visit you that the real interests and concerns of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not read from the declarative opening speeches, visits, tours and promises, but that they are read in the budget items. In these items of the budget I have not seen the resources for Stinica, for the Horn, for Capra, for Merak, for Prizim, for Zigljan, for Olib, for..., for the sister and the Beast, so please, if it is possible to show that care for the citizens in the number next time. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49365	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 150, Agent Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49366	The amendment is not accepted. Due to the fact that the port of Pula, a port of county importance for the recovery of the ports is primarily the county port administration. However, according to the ministry's knowledge, it is a major investment operation that the ministry will propose that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the County of Istria and the City of Pula participate in the rescue of the ports through foreign credit arrangements.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49367	Representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49368	Thank you very much. Pula Luka, which is almost a nautical mile long, is a key infrastructure facility in the city of Pula. It was built in the end of 1910. In the former state, there was never any means to resuscitate that harbor, and unless we execute its recovery, all the lower parts of the City of Pula come with a strict city centre. And it's a simple task that can't be delayed indefinitely. About the same answer I heard last year when the state budget was adopted. I will withdraw the amendment this time and hold to the Secretary of State's word for the responsibility of the resolution ministry. And I really expect it to definitely start at the beginning of the rescue. It's lucky for us, the investment weighs 11 million euros, but here's our happiness that you can partially go to rehab as much as there's money for so much music, but everything just has to go into recovery. I accept this promise and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49369	Thank you very much. 150th Amendment withdrawn. In 151st, also represented by Anton Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49370	So, Pula port, we will repeat that it is of county importance, but is not primarily aimed at ensuring the regular maintenance of public coastal liner traffic and for these reasons the reconstruction of the river gatta in Pula port is not included in priority projects to be financed from the state budget in 2006. We note that from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia with the division of 0.65 of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development in 2004 and 2005 a total of 2 million 537 million kuna were allocated to the reconstruction of the river gatta.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49371	Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49372	This is really exactly what the secretary of state says. The fact that the port of Pula is a port of county importance, but that it also agrees with state lines and that Rijeka's gat is one passenger coast in Pula port where it has not intervened in the last 60 years and that it is now at the end of the recovery and that ships are avoiding Pula port. Among other things, there is no operational shore to which it could be attached. These investments have indeed been made and by the state budget, however, Pula's port administration has exhausted all its opportunities. Among other things, a loan of 6 million kuna, which she raised with the guarantee of the County Assembly. And if we want to welcome the upcoming season ready, then we should really do this effort and approve these extra 2 million. And please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49373	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 152 Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49374	The amendment is not accepted. The planned budgets for 2006 are at the level of 2005 when the overall transport effect has been significantly increased on passenger, ferry, ship and high-speed lines. The planned funds will allow for the continued regular maintenance of the public coastal liner system. In 2006, the start of a new Law on Public-Line and the occasional coastal transport, whose adoption is ongoing, is also envisioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49375	Representative Alenko Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49376	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, I would just like to point out by a trace of the previous comment on the amendment that the transport link between the basis for sustainable development of the island and the coast. And we believe that in the spirit of programmed policies and maritime orientations of the Republic of Croatia it is necessary to increase the amount in the said position. In particular, given that over the past period there has been a significant increase in costs and fuels due to the rising price of oil derivatives on the world market, thus not accepting an increase in the amount would result in either a reduced volume of navigation or an increase in the price of travel tickets, which is a direct blow to the standard of island, as well as the development of tourism. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49377	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 153rd Agent William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49378	The amendment is not accepted. The Public Road Construction and Maintenance Programme for 2005-2009, therefore, through a four-year programme adopted by the Government, has been established among other things by the dynamics of the construction of Corridor 5C, whose realization has started towards established dynamics through design and other preparation, and for the same period, financial resources have been provided. The fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a 4-year programme whose component is, among other things, Corridor 5C and whose realisation is provided with the means, sufficient in itself is the promotion that does not require additional funding to promote the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49379	There's no representative. We should vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 154 Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49380	The amendment is not accepted. The state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 financed the production of a study "the business model and the preparation of the Zagreb airport tender" of 2.6 million kuna and the project behind which the Government of the Republic of Croatia stands. No decision on how to finance has been taken for the project to build a new airport passenger terminal in Zagreb. Since no project funding holder or co-financing participants has been identified, there is no basis for introducing a new proposed position for 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49381	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49382	Your Honor, Secretary of State. As far as studymaking is concerned, I have to tell you that there is one study still commissioned from 95 years ago. So, for 10 years, we've just been turning the studies around on our hands. As for the further and financing decisions, how will be financed by which model I see no obstacle that this could not have been agreed upon. I mean, it's not that complicated. I would also like to say that it is important to ensure that the proposed budget is provided. You know the importance of the airport for the City of Zagreb and all of Croatia. You also know that Mr. Sanader recently shook hands on that subject with Mr. Mayor. And more importantly, it is also important to mention that the airport is 55% owned by the Republic of Croatia. I consider that a priority question, and please, I would like to vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49383	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 155th MPs Mato Arlović, Mato Gavran and Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49384	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal for a national budget for 2006 for the A570-333 activities provides for an amount of 28 million 980 thousand kuna. The funds are planned to co-finance the investments of all airports in the Republic of Croatia, which relate to the purchase of security and security equipment as well as the implementation of works which are essential for safety and safety of air traffic in the Republic of Croatia. That amount of funding is sufficient for all planned activities in 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49385	Thank you. The vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Also represented by Mato Gavran and Mato Arlovic, 156.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49386	The amendment is not accepted. We propose that the amendment be rejected for the purpose of building and technical maintenance of inland waterways, for the purposes of the construction and maintenance of waterways, we have provided for funds in the state budget at position A570-449. Construction, technical maintenance of inland waterways, and 28 million kuna. It is apparent from the above that the funds are provided for in a higher amount than they were requested in the amendment, but they are provided in the second position as specified by the reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49387	Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49388	Mr. President, dear colleague. It is true that you have predicted at second position a means to maintain and regulate waterways. However, it actually refers to the regulation of the Sava River regarding an agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to the regulation of a waterway that is already under way. Or if it's not about that, then it's about this, but they're not secure for resolving and reaching an agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina on the average of 70 maendars on the Sava River and shortening the plugin road on several... and tens of kilometers and reinforcements and, of course, the regulation of the Sava River and that is why we are asking for this amendment to be voted on. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49389	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 157. Representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49390	The amendment is not accepted. It is only after the adoption of the Coast Guard Act that we can determine the necessary amount of resources for the activities of the resolution ministries in the framework of the Coast Guard, depending on the tasks to be placed in charge in this ministry. The proposed amount of 3 million 670 inactivity to seek rescue at sea and to protect the sea from pollution is intended to cover the costs, interventions and preparedness of three freighters with the starting ports of Zadar, Sibenik and Dubrovnik for the purpose of searching and saving at sea and in extremely poor weather conditions, as well as preventing and resuscitating sea pollution from ships to areas of sea area under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49391	Representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49392	Well, I don't think we understand each other. The essence of this amendment was not to ask for additional funds, because I am aware of the fact that the state budget is located, but I have requested that this insufficient amount of 35 million provided for the Coast Guard within the Ministry of Defence, or the Navy of the Ministry of Defence be transferred to the Ministry of the Sea. Imagine you are the Coast Guard on the Adriatic which is a prestigious nautical destination with mega yachts, luxury yachts, cruisers and control by the Navy, completely inadmissible to think the same thing, what I think our respective ministry, the Ministry of the Sea is proof that the Secretary of State for... Mr. Bacic gave a regional list, says the secretary of state for the sea surprised by the alleged decision to keep the Coast Guard within the framework of the Navy and he continues to say that with the coast guard the chairman of the sea, as the government... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]] [[The speaker is disabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49393	The microphone, your microphone's off.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49394	He says further, the secretary of state, in most countries that have established a coast guard for unity, is within the government's civilian portfolio. I simply asked that the funds provided for under the Navy, i.e. the Ministry of Defence, be transferred to the Ministry of the Sea, where they belong. Given that both the resolution minister and the resolution ministry are thinking the same as me, let's let the fellow MPs help them overcome this situation and that the funds provided for in the budget will only be transferred from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of the Sea and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49395	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 158th Representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49396	The amendment is not accepted. On the 16th of this year, this sub-project nominated for the programme of integrated development of the local community, Abe 2. Here are a few sentences about the fateful top programs. The processing and analysis of all the nominations received as production and criteria and conditions under which the programme will be implemented and the score of all the nominations received is ongoing. In accordance with the provisions of the contract with the European Investment Bank, all selected sub-projects must have prior consent to the bank before the start of work. Depending on the means available to carry out planned activities in the state of completion of the project documentation and the necessary permits, a spatial and dynamic sub-project implementation plan will be developed for the next 4 years as long as the duration and implementation of the programme is foreseen. It is planned to cover 500 units of local self-government with this programme, so all units of local self-government other than the island municipalities and the city of Zagreb, and the subject of implementation are mainly covered in other positions covered by the item covering the previous chapter of the sea, and the subject of implementation can be objects of municipal and social infrastructure and sub-projects from the environmental protection component. In accordance with the above mentioned sub-project of the rehabilitation of unclassified roads in the Municipality of Lšana Ostrovačko is 2 million kuna, it will be included in the process of evaluation and score and will request the consent of the European Investment Bank to start the realization.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49397	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49398	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. This is the purpose of this amendment was precisely to encourage this very small municipality, which without general concern, joint concern and budget and other funds simply will not be able to produce, not only this road, but simply will not survive in that area given the fact that I pointed out earlier, which is that its budget is 850 thousand kuna, but it encourages that these funds for unclassified roads will succeed and that the Lishana Ostrovaki Municipality will succeed in making that transport infrastructure even better connected and thus ensure a decent life for its citizens. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49399	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn 158. 159th Representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49400	The amendment is not accepted. The construction was completed this year, the western road was put into circulation along with a newly built international crossing. Construction of a new eastern road, which includes building a new bridge across the Sava River, was not included in the 2005 construction programme. The same needs first of all to be spatially agreed with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then to establish the dynamics of construction. In the next period of time, it will seek to agree on a spatial solution so that the project can be implemented in the 2009 programme, 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49401	Representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49402	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. This amendment was created in response to the promise we had when it was a cabinet session in Slavonski Brod that the government would finance this in this state budget of the eastern bound road, port, ship and other facilities, so I have set up this amendment and I am sorry that there is no recognition in this amendment of one cry and of the people and citizens of Slavonski Brod and of the County of Brod-Posavia to help with a more dynamic aid of infrastructure financing in the town of Slavonski Brod, and we in the county have no financial means to start it. You know as well as I do that there are 25 thousand people in Slavonski Brod, and with these people we've shared everything we've had, so we've been doing some of the jobs for the state itself, we need now the state to help us develop these resources simply, otherwise I'm afraid there's going to be more... The problems in the town of Slavonski Brod because you mentioned the western roadway, it's just another small problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The whole traffic is still going through the town of Slavonski Brod and there are major problems in the town of Slavonski Brod. I'm glad it's going to work out, but I don't think it's the plan you said, it's certainly not going to satisfy us in 2009-2012, I'm afraid it's going to get us into a lot of trouble. I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49403	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 160th Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49404	The amendment is not accepted. This sub-project was nominated for the programme for the integrated development of the local community, Abe 2. That's what we talked about in the last amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49405	Agent Ante Markov. Amendment withdrawn. 161. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49406	The amendment is not accepted. Since it is the county road ZC5002 bypass of Poreč, it is the subject of the County Road Administration of the Istrian County. The ŽUCs finance a programme of construction and maintenance of county and local roads from their original revenues, so road charges, registration of motor vehicles and other own revenues, and therefore it is not possible to accept an amendment to increase the funds for investments in the county road to the burden of budgetary resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49407	IDS club. There's no one here. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. From that club, Amendment 162.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49408	The amendment is not accepted. The organisation of the Buset bypass road is not in the programme of building the first and maintenance of public roads for the period 2005-2008 which was adopted in December of last year by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore not possible to accept the amendment to provide funds for the investment made.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49409	There's no proposer. We vote. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 163rd Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49410	The amendment is not accepted. Continuing the implementation of the refurbishment, upgrade and construction programme of the school facilities is also implemented through the programme of rebuilding the municipal infrastructure in areas of special public care of the EIB1, the integrated development of the local EIB community2 and through the reconstruction of the CEB5 school facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49411	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49412	It's all true and that it's working from EIB1 and it's working from CEB 1 and CEB 5, but the fact is that the school there is not restored in the Lower Kucurusars or in Glina, and that's why I asked this amendment to finance that purpose and to restore those schools. I'm not talking about a school in the Mechanics, I'm talking about a school in the Lower Kukurusari and I'd like to ask that amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49413	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 164th also from Alenka Košiša Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49414	The amendment is not accepted. There has already been an increase in that position compared to last year from 53 to 62 million kuna. In addition, certain regional development projects can be implemented through a new programme of integrated development of the local community... II. for which the 2006 budget is secured 100 million kuna, in projections further as you can see more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49415	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49416	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49417	I'm withdrawing the amendment. Amendment 164 withdrawn. 165. Representatives Mato Arlović, Mato Gavran, Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49418	The amendment is not accepted. Preparation of the construction of the southern bypass of Osijek is within the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads d.o.o. To launch the construction of the second wheel of the Croatian road, they carry out the first phase of project preparation to the location permit. After obtaining the Croatian road license, they will take on further project preparation and construction as part of their possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49419	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 166. Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic, Vladimir Šišljagić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49420	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is identical to that of the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49421	Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49422	Thank you very much. Let me just remind you that this is a state road D2 whose construction began 33 years ago. Construction has been launched with the intention of moving traffic and city centres. After 33 years, we still don't have a finished southern leg of the south bypass. That is why this amendment was submitted. However, I accept that the Ministry of Transport is also taking care of this, with the projection that by 2008 this southern arm will be completed, so in the period when the 5C corridor bypass will be completed, we are withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49423	Amendment 166 withdrawn. 167. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49424	The amendment is not accepted. The EIB2 Local Community Integrated Development Programme provides for within the social infrastructure component, including upbuilding activities, school building, educational and other facilities. This programme will be implemented in cooperation and coordination of work and recommendations with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Explanation for EIB2 has also been given.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49425	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49426	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49427	Thank you. Amendment 167 withdrawn. Amendment 168. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49428	The amendment is not accepted. In 10.5.2005, the headship of the Municipality of Brtonigla submitted nominations of those facilities for the EIB programme2. Therefore, there is no need to repeat once more the explanation of the fate of the EIB2 project.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49429	Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49430	The amendment is clear. You'd have asked for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49431	Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 169th Amendment by Mr Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49432	The amendment is not accepted. The current situation of the island economy is a problem for further development of the island's depopulation. The funds in this position seek to trigger the development of the island economy, a way to enable employers who have residence or headquarters on the islands to receive compensation for each resident employee on the island. This position is not intended for projects with a capital investment level. The proposed project will be positioned and planned for the activities of AP70463 of the development of the Adriatic Islands of capital aid within the general state in line with the completion of the project documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49433	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49434	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Secretary of State! The first part of a coastal construction project in Murter was completed a year and a half ago. It is the nature of the sport and fishing port which is necessary for the operation of the site as well as for the economic activity that is now increasing year by year on that part. And exactly the fact that there are the largest number of ships in Murter, wooden ships per capita, speak of the necessity of need. From what I understand, you have referred to the funds in the state budget in the funds of the Island Centre from which the distribution of these funds should be carried out according to this project. If that's what this is about, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49435	Thank you. Amendment 169 withdrawn. Amendment 170th Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49436	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the preparation of spatial and project documentation, the resources envisaged will be sufficient for the existing needs of island development, as the investment position in the islands is also being carried out through the project of building municipal and social infrastructure facilities on the Croatian islands CEB4 which represents an integrated project consisting of four components of building municipal infrastructure and improving the social care system, improving health care and improving the educational process on small remote islands... A million kunas. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]] Investment through both programmes in capital island projects has been invested, so the total investment amounts to another 107.5 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49437	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49438	Look, with all due respect to your explanation, Mr. Secretary of State, I think you may have missed the subject in your explanation. In fact, in the Ministry of the Sea, transport and development, the item "Adriatic Islands Development" was reduced by 2006 compared to this year by 26 million kuna. So that's so much less. I'd like to ask you what you think that would mean to the inhabitants of the island here's the Union, Suska, Srakana,... , Premude, Dugi Otok, or Lastova, Mljet and these islands that threaten to leave the population because they have no elementary infrastructure, which have no ship's connections of quality, which have no conditions for opening any jobs, so they have no conditions for developing the economy etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the reduction of the new item in that amount, which is actually for the state budget in general, shows actually one indifference towards the Adriatic islands or the inhabitants of the Adriatic islands. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49439	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 171st representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49440	The amendment is not accepted. Since it is a reconstruction of the state road, the project is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads and cannot be in that position. In the framework of their four-year work programme adopted by the Government, Croatian roads also have a separate section that refers specifically to islands called "Island Programme", which includes construction, reconstruction and modernisation of access roads, ferry ports and ports and other state and county roads on islands. In the planned period from 2005 to 2008, the mentioned programme in the monetary scope is 385.5 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49441	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49442	Thank you very much. Well, this amendment has been withdrawn for, like, two, three financial years. It is in nature about the state road 121, the state road that exits the Zagreb-Split highway near Pirovac, heading towards the island Murter, which is just in the part of passing through the municipality of Tisno practically in a state where it cannot be called suitable for the general character of the other road. This is exactly the part of the road that is in some way a huge interference during the tourist season with normal communication, normal traffic, normal traffic not only of vehicles but of people passing through. In addition to the support wall that is necessary for safety reasons, and for many years this project has been running for the municipality of Tisno has invested its own resources within the budget precisely to connect that part of the road and thus to put the state road D-121 fully into operation and that this highway has its own natural character which can be called a common acceptability and a state road because in this way I say it is in many ways lag behind and there is no function that the road should have, and that is to connect uninterrupted, safe and has the flow that is necessary and necessary. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49443	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 172. Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49444	The amendment is not accepted. The implementation of this project can be implemented within the Integrated Development Programme of the local EI-2 community, which we have given a broad explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49445	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49446	It's perfectly understandable for me, Mr. Secretary, to use this conditional "could be," but I have to tell you, it's never been used before. Therefore, these funds are not intended for the construction and restoration of destroyed public facilities in Sisak-Moslavina County or specifically kindergartens in Glina, the Society's House in Maja or the Social Home in Mali Graz. I agree it might, but it hasn't yet. That's why I gave the amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49447	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 173. Amendments Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49448	The amendment is not accepted, the amendment is not accepted. Since the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development in its positions did not plan the means to make master plans for this county.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49449	Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49450	Thank you very much. So this amendment is just going because the Ministry wasn't planning on in their positions. For these purposes, for years, we all swear at various events of professional, congress and symposiums in the development of continental tourism and tourism development in Slavonia and Baranja where we have both Kopački rit and I personally think, and there are also experts in the possibility of developing hunting, fishing. So potential for tourism development. We didn't go beyond attempts and verbal expressions. We're here in, at zero. The proposal is to draw up a master's plan to develop tourism in Osijek-Baranja County since the Ministry does not plan to single out a single kuna for these purposes, I ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49451	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 174. Zdenko Antišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49452	The amendment is not accepted. Since, in accordance with the Law on State aid and legal regulation of the European Union, we are not obliged to comply with the obligations of the SAA in this section from 1.1.2006, it is not possible to subsidise organised tourism transport. The assets amounting to 15 million kuna of heading A587007 are intended to cover commitments for subsidies from the end of 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49453	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49454	Thank you very much. I would, I would like to, in a way that, in a way that we are subject to competitive countries which are significant tourism broadcasting markets such as Portugal, Spain, Italy, France and Greece, to be subsidized by organised tourism traffic, and I think that the claim that under this Agreement on joining the European Union is and is not allowed to think that it does not hold water. I believe that this item should certainly find places in the State budget because we as an extremely tourist country should find places to subsidise tourism as a branch or some kind of tourism. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49455	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 175. Representatives Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49456	The amendment is not accepted. In 2006 the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development will conclude contracts with housing users in the areas of special state care provided for in the rental of state-owned apartments with the renting of apartments to Croatian defenders in accordance with the provisions on the donation of apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia in areas of special state care to Croatian defenders and family members of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Based on closed contracts, the owners will assume the obligation to pay the reserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49457	... Mato Arlović. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49458	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I absolutely agree with everything you have said in your argument that the purchase contracts will be concluded or donated to those apartments when under the regulations during the following year. But it's not about that problem... It is the fact that these protected tenants who have received apartments for temporary use or used as protected tenants have been obliged to pay with minimum rent prescribed for them and part of the reserve fee to be paid by the owner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the owner of these apartments is the state of the Republic of Croatia and that amount goes up to about 6 million kuna and therefore we asked that the owner actually subscribe to what must be. to pay for that reservation, not that it burdens the tenants in the city of Vukovar, in these apartments because it is a very, very difficult and serious issue. The more individual tenants he burdens with several thousand kunas that they should suddenly give, which they don't actually have. And that's why we're asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49459	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We're done with the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, traffic and development. We're going to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. I'd like Secretary of State Davor Snotty to take his place. First amendment to a respected representative, the 176th Amendment, a respected representative of Alenka Kosisa Chicin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49460	The amendment is not accepted. This year's waste management and management funds are provided in the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and all projects in the Republic of Croatia will be financed through the Fund. The ministry provided funds for this purpose in 2004, however, this way of funding and waste management proved to be more effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49461	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49462	Thank you very much. I agree with you. You're just saying he'll be in the Fund. And as far as I know, the Fund already exists for over a year, so I'm curious why it hasn't already been, there's no funds provided in this fund for this dump in Croatia. I think it is a waste dump that is in a very bad state close to the city itself and as such represents a really serious pollution for the town of Croatia Kostanica which was a completely polite border town before this Homeland War and I think it is unworthy to call it such a dump, I will call it a dump standing close to such a big city. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49463	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. The 177th Amendment of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49464	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the ministry has made 25 million kunas for projects of associations awarded through a public tender for the past two years. Based on the tenders so far, we have estimated that the estimated amount is sufficient for this year, and should be noted that next year, through the PHARE programme through the Croatian Government Office of Associations, the projects of associations on environmental protection will also be funded. Here it was recently on the advice for associations accepted by the PHARE program.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49465	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49466	Thank you very much. We will probably discuss this in the next budget, as these funds will then be included in the budget. I'm curious about what this year will be for funding for NGOs. Namely, they are the best indicator of the state and filter and critic of our society and I think we should finance NGOs, especially if they have shown good results, and I think they have, by their engagement in the field of environmental protection. I didn't realize whether these projects that are now running will go into automation then the next year when the PHARE funds will be allocated or not, but I believe we'll discuss it in the next budget. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49467	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment I78. Alenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49468	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that it has been estimated that these funds are sufficient in view of the dynamics and the possibility of performing operations in the county offices for spatial planning related to these spatial plans of special features. Besides, one part of the program is already being prepared and next year it will be in the first quarter ahead of you here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49470	As far as I know, I think those spatial plans... , and nature park Lonjsko polje must be built by the end of this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the resources to be provided for this, if they are extended, should also be granted. I'm afraid that by the third, in the first quarter of next year we won't see the spatial plan Lonjsko polje. They were alive and seen. Please vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49471	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 179.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49472	It's unacceptable. the funds from the environmental surveillance position shall be used as a rule for emergency interventions in which, under the laws and intervention plans, the county eco-indicators shall be assessed as sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49473	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49474	Comrade Secretary of State, you know the state of the environment and pollution which is the subject of the city of Sisak and the specific situation related to both the Refinery and HERBOS and the thermal power plant and the Željezar Sisak. Here comes the 11th month when the concentrations of benzene thank God daily in the atmosphere of Sisak will be growing. I think it's simply inappropriate for these amendments to be rejected from this place, which contribute to the public's breathing of clean air. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49475	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority of the amendments. 180th Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49476	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, spatial plans for the arrangement of Roma settlements work simultaneously with the plans of units of local self-government for which funds are provided in the budget in the second position under those aids related to spatial plans. This year, 3 and a half million kuna were provided for this purpose, 5 million and 400 kuna are planned for 2006. Only for the construction of individual Roma settlements that are not included in the entire plans of units of local self-government are 300 thousand kunas secured. He said that the means for these spatial plans would be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49477	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49478	I'd like those funds you're talking about to be enough. It is simply that the land on which the Roma settlement that already exists has been owned by the Croatian forests for 40 years. We can't take it now or it's property-mandated, we can't take it into our program and plan it spatially until these property deals are settled. I remind you, we're only full of Roma mouths. If it's possible to find this position you're talking about because I don't know what's behind that amount, this I could accept. But anyway, until I see it, I would still ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49479	Who's in favor of Amendment 180? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment of the 181st representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49480	The amendment is not accepted. The answer is similar to that of the previous one. Funding is provided at the position of spatial plans of 5 million kuna, and for a particular municipality it is not possible to hold new positions and we believe that these funds will be sufficient for the municipality to meet that requirement and to allocate certain funds to the ministry. Just like we've done so far. If it's just a settlement arrangement, not spatial plans, then it's a matter of local self-government, according to the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49481	The representative is not present. Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the Secretary of State. We are moving to the amendments to the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. I'd like Secretary of State Nevi Setic's request.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49482	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49483	Amendment 182. Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49484	The amendment is not accepted. The ministry remains at the proposed amount for the 2006 budget. Eventually, this year we will follow and evaluate, so that it could possibly change for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49485	Representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49486	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, I wrote this amendment because this government proposes that the funds for development on the basis of small and medium-sized companies be reduced from 20 million to 500 thousand kuna to 17 million kuna. I find it totally unacceptable to have knowledge-based, knowledge-based and commercial societies in a country that prededicates to have knowledge-based economies and companies to reduce funds for this. Your response, or justification for refusing this amendment, gives me the right to be quite right when I proposed this amendment. The more projections of the 2007 Budget, the more you did not predict the increase in that item. Secondly, the "understanding" programme, within which these programmes would be financed, i.e. transfers for knowledge-based small and medium-sized companies, has been signed this year and a new contract with the HABOR where these should rather boost economic activity, given that these are the applications of new technologies, i.e. that these are advanced technologies. Since it is completely unacceptable for me, and I hope to fellow Members that we are reducing resources for the development of advanced technologies based on which only, based on which we can increase both the gross social product and further development of Croatia, I would ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49487	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 183.Representative Mary Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49488	The amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that the planned funding of 4 million kunas is sufficient for the planned scope of the renewal of mandatory literature and professional literature.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49489	Representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49490	The point here is that the funds for the equipment of school libraries in primary schools are increased from 4 to 6 million kuna. I think that everyone in the Croatian Parliament and the public already knows that in 2005 you completely abolished the resources to equip school libraries with school books, i.e. mandatory literature and professional literature. Your explanation that says it'll be enough for what you've been planning shows that you've simply been planning too little. Four million kunas to you, Mr. Secretary of State, less than 10 kuna per student. If you feel that after one year, you have not obtained a single school book for libraries in terms of literature and professional literature that less than 10 kuna per student is enough, then I don't know how you think of knowledge to build the Republic of Croatia, how you plan to develop the school system. And finally, how do you plan to apply HNOS whose main foundation is actually to look for a source of knowledge in external sources other than textbooks themselves. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49491	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 184 to MP Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49492	The amendment cannot be accepted but we want to say that this year we have increased by a million kunas of this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49493	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49494	Your Honor, I find it difficult to accept this argument. It repeats from year to year that we must say that we have a good minority law, that we always highlight it as the best, but it is de facto inapplicable when it comes to education because unfortunately children do not have textbooks. The funds are small. In addition, there are simply no translated textbooks, or it is difficult to explain how it is possible in this year when the funds were slightly smaller but slightly smaller funds were spent on associations, for summer schools, and where the textbooks were prepared, where there is no education in minority language in regular school until the day of today, and the end of the eleventh month was paid for by a single lip. If we have not issued any textbooks in this year, it is not realistic to expect even for the next year that certain minorities will receive the necessary textbooks for which they cry. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49495	Who's in? Thank you. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 185. National Minority Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49496	It's the same amendment, same explanation. So we can't accept this amendment for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49497	Since it's identical, I'm pulling it back, it didn't go through.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49498	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 186.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49499	It's about professional training. For the reason that the planned funds are in line with the plan of professional training of teachers and teachers in the secondary schools of the Republic of Croatia, we do not think it is necessary to amend the decision, so we do not accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49501	Mr. Secretary of State, then your plan is in the least unambitious. Namely, you have suggested in this budget that funds for professional training and education of teachers and teachers in secondary schools be reduced. In a situation where high school teachers have to prepare intensively for the introduction of state graduates, I think it is quite unacceptable to reduce the funds for the professional training of teachers, and you have these money in the ministry because, for example, you increase the funds to edit the ministry building by 6.5 million kuna, which is 285% last year and so you have allocated 4 million kuna to perfecting teachers and to edit your building 6.5 million kuna. I think, Mr. Secretary of State, that it's not right, but the more we know that our teachers are not only in high schools humiliated in their professional dignity and human dignity because they have low wages. Now we won't allocate enough resources for professional training. What you're saying is that this is enough, unfortunately for you in the ministry, perhaps for Croatian high schools, for teachers and children who need to prepare for the state's graduation, I don't think it's enough. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49502	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 187 by attorney Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49503	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funding of 3 million kunas is sufficient for the planned scope of the renewal of mandatory literature and professional literature in secondary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49505	This similar amendment to the one we had just before. This is about increasing the resources to equip libraries in secondary schools for compulsory literature and professional literature. In 2004 we had 5 million kunas for this purpose, last year we abolished until the last June funds for the acquisition of literature and professional literature in secondary schools. Now you predict only 3 million and 600,000 kunas to equip libraries in high schools. I repeat, you predict twice as much money to edit your own building as it is to buy literature and professional literature in absolutely all secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49506	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 188th Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49507	We do not accept the amendment because it is contrary to the law because the responsibility for financing the construction of kindergarten is primarily on the unit of local administration and self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49508	The representative is not present. Please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Representative Koračević Amendment 189.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49509	Same reasons I explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49510	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 190 of Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49511	Same reasons I already explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49512	The representative is not present, we must vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. The same representative of Amendment 191.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49513	The amendment cannot be accepted for the same reasons I already explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49514	Who's in? You're here now? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. The Honorable Representative of the Marks Amendment 191.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49515	Is this about building a kindergarten, Mr. Secretary of State, that's what you're referencing yourself to?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49516	Yeah, a reconstruction of a former school in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49517	That's right. In fact, the kindergarten in that small municipality will be even smaller if we help her this well. Not less by the number of people likely because they survived under difficult conditions. It's a community that was severely injured in the Homeland War. It is small by the material possibilities of its budget, it is small by the potential of the economy, and it needs to be helped by such municipalities, sensitivity should exist with them, and within its capabilities, this municipality has managed to find a former school that has started to be reconstructed and which it has started to prepare in some way to open up a kindergarten which it really is, we will agree all together with one civilization level and I think we have to give any support for such a preschool facility and I trust the state secretary to simply have to find some funds and the funds here are worth 500 thousand kuna. I mean, since we always swear on kids, our children and the future that we should just have feelings for these little things that budget items shouldn't break like domino cards so as not to create an incorrect impression that we're not taking enough care of it. That's why if it can't be maintained, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49518	Who's in favour of this amendment? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 192. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49519	I have to admit, this amendment is a little vague. It is not understood exactly what it is intended to achieve, but the planned funds in this item fully enable the realization of all the planned activities. And that's why we can't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49520	Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49521	I don't know what's not clear. But here. Dear Secretary of State, this is about the completion of the Sports Hall of Sela Elementary School. The city has secured money in that amount as agreed, but we have found nowhere, in no position for this year's completion of the hall. And it's about a playground that's also about the elementary school "June 22nd" in the centre of Sisak. True, archaeological excavations are there, so it took a while. But there's no Buddashevo school anywhere that was announced last year. It's about home school and the gym would be there, there's... need. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's too much to explain to you what a sports hall means to a school where it's gravitating the entire lower Posavina. So I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49522	Who's in favour of this amendment? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 193 of MP Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49523	The amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that the planned funds are in line with the plan of professional training of teachers and teachers to primary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49524	Representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49525	This is about proposing to increase the funds for professional training and education of teachers and teachers in primary schools. Namely, Mr. Secretary of State, if what you said in your explanation is true, do you plan to apply HNOS next school year at every school? In order to apply HNOS, teachers should be further trained in primary schools. The funds you predicted for the whole year 2006 from where 6 and a half million kuna came from, I would only remind you that this year when you introduced HNOS to only 49 schools you spent significantly more than 6 and a half million kuna. So I don't understand how you're going to train all the other teachers in all of Croatia with this amount for what they should be doing at the beginning of the next school year. A team more, if we know that usually in budget rebalances, these are items that are mostly the first to die. Speaking about the professional training of teachers in elementary schools in the profession is a general place that the ministry can bring reforms like this or like that, and we can agree on that. But that absolutely every reform falls into the water at the moment when the teacher stays alone with the children. So the only way to make the most of the investments in school change itself is to perfect teachers. And I think it's unacceptable for us to cut those assets. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49526	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 194 of MP Zlatko Korakevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49527	The amendment cannot be accepted on the grounds that it is contrary to the Law because the funds for these purposes are in line with the amendments to the Law on Fundamental Education of 2001, and the counties and cities that finance the decentralised functions of primary education. Let me explain here, given that there are many such proposals, how around 143 buildings in the Republic of Croatia are being built today from programmes financed by the Republic of Croatia and the banks accompanying, the Council of Europe Development Banks, it is a program... 2. And there's one more thing I'd like to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that from next year we're starting from a loan loan between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Finance to build facilities especially for those who can move very quickly to one shift, whether it's basic or secondary schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49528	The representative is not present. Please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. 195, amendment of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49529	The amendment cannot be accepted because it is simply contrary to the law, and I have just explained how schools are being built in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that MPs also know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49530	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 196 of the same representative, Korakevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49531	We also cannot accept it because the amendment is contrary to the law and the opportunities we have at our disposal, and I have already spoken about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49532	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. 197, amendment of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49533	Also, the amendment cannot be accepted because it is contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49534	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 198 to Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49535	We also cannot accept the amendment because the funds for this capital facility are provided in units of local administration and self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49536	We have to vote. The representative is not present. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 199 of Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49537	We can't accept the amendment because it's contrary to the law and to all these facts that I already, for what time, explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49538	Honorable representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. According to the old folk, "life is on the island and happiness and sorrow." The happiness is when you have a fast line, when you have a warm home, when you have your children taken to the theater, it is possible to have sports activities. And it's sad when it's all gone. And it's said, this one is not in vain that it's poor people in gold mines. It is not necessary to confirm such a thesis, of course, and I am not pessimistic in this regard, but I do believe that after the construction of a secondary school in Korčula which, as you know, was built, there is no sports hall, which is indeed one of the contents that must be recognised for such a city that there is reason to have it. Of course he needs to co-finance the city of Korčula, which they are prepared to do. But I think we need all of us together, including the ministry within the budget or those funds that can be pooled together with local self-government, that we should find the possibility to find an opportunity through this relationship or some other relationship to start building a sports hall. But since we don't have any other option then please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49540	Who's in favour of this amendment? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 200, Agent Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49541	The amendment cannot be accepted because it is contrary to legal possibilities, but I would like to say that this program is run in the "EJP 2" program that we keep correct. So, the great possibility that he'll be running there.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49542	The representative is not present. Please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 201 of Representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49543	This amendment cannot be accepted for reasons that are contrary to legal possibilities, and I would like to say that this project is not run in the "EJP 2" programme where 13 schools in the Međimurje County area are running, but this programme is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49544	Representative Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49545	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49546	Turn it on, turn it on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49547	... the development needs to be on the burden of the state budget. [[Specially enabled.]] So he's not in there. Now the papers are being arranged and I hope it will be next year. But I do ask, therefore, that this budget should be voted upon, since I think that care for children with developmental difficulties and their education must be within the budget. So I'd like to ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49548	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 203 of MP Pavlic. ... 203 [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 202, excuse me. [[Intruder: 202.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49549	The amendment cannot be accepted for reasons contrary to the law, but I warn we have two other sources. It is the "EC 2" programme and this programme since 1 January, based on loans with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, so these projects can be run.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49550	I hope, therefore, that it will also be achieved since it is about programmes, therefore, which are aimed at one part of Roma education. So I hope, then, that's what's gonna happen. That's why I'm withdrawing this amendment. Here, I hope that will be accomplished.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49551	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 203 of MP Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49552	This amendment must also be rejected from the fact that it is contrary to the law, but these other possibilities remain with regard to the construction of a sports hall in the elementary school "Sveta Maria" which I have already stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49553	Here we are in St Mary's, so we're going to rush to complete the necessary papers, especially the building permit, so hopefully we'll have the door open to the ministry itself, so I'm pulling the amendment here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49554	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 204 of MP Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49555	The amendment must be rejected, but the construction and circumstances of the building of the elementary school "Orehovica" are well known and I believe that it will find its place in one of these two programmes or the "Abe 2" program or the one I already mentioned with the international bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49556	Yeah, well, here's a similar problem to the previous schools, I'm just reminding the Secretary of State that we laid the foundation stone together for this school a month and a half ago, so I hope we'll soon be present for its beginning of construction and completion. Thank you very much, so I'm withdrawing the amendment to this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49557	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment of the 205th Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49558	This amendment cannot be accepted for reasons contrary to legal possibilities, but I believe if it has all the necessary documentation to compete in these other programs where we are already building over 144 objects.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49559	Representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49560	Well, first of all, I want to tell you that this is not contrary to the legal issue, because the ministry sets minimum standards and the ministry can increase the amount of decentralised funds, unfortunately the amount of decentralised funds for next year will increase by 1.69% in total, so all of what you're saying is that contrary to the law, the ministry is preventing it from working in accordance with the law, so to increase decentralised funds. That's why we're forced to go directly to the budget, but allow me spokeswoman of the ministry said the ministry will build 230 school facilities next year. I'm asking you why none of these 230 school facilities are in Koprivnica-Kristevnica County? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49561	Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 206 of the same agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49562	206 or 207? [[/Intruder: 206. yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49563	206.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49564	We cannot accept this amendment because it is contrary to the law, but indeed the claim that 230 objects will be built is correct, but there should be complete documentation that will be discussed within these two programmes that we mentioned. Therefore, we plan to do so because, as you know, 144 buildings are being built in the Republic of Croatia at various stages.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49565	Representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49566	Now I really don't get it. On the one hand, you say there's something contrary to the law, and on the other hand you say if the paperwork is done, it can be included in these two projects. These two statements are contrary to each other or the law prevents the ministry from building schools or then you can build all schools, and I will remind you here that you have in the 2006 Budget new schools such as building a sports hall in Bakru, such as building a sports high school building in Zagreb, building a crafts-technical school in Split. These are all new objects that have not been built by 31 March 2001 when we can say that we are interpreting such and such a law. So somewhere you have a precedent, you don't have a precedent. I ask you once again why neither of the 230 school facilities that are being built or built in the Republic of Croatia from the state budget is being built in Koprivnica and Križevci County? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49567	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 207. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49568	The amendment cannot be accepted for reasons contrary to the law, but in the way this budget is planned, because it should be run and I can see that your projects have already been run for the Abe 2 programme and the programme that we will open since 1 January. Therefore, I do not believe that it will be possible for this project to enter if it is timely and good documentation. Just as for some counties such as Koprivnica-križevska, they will also run for this difference from 144 to some 200 and more facilities. So those who can get into that paperwork.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49569	Okay, I guess one number's been skipped here. I'm 207. This is the IDS rep club, you're talking about the amendment that he submitted, and here it's by the number... Representative of Zvonimir Mršić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49570	Okay, we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49571	Well, then, 206th, this one's 206th. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49572	So it's about building a student home in the Križevci. It is a home where high school students come to high school and to the High Economic School in Križevci. I just want to remind you that the first school of agriculture in Križevci is the first school of agriculture, i.e. the High School of Economics, from which all the agricultural schools in Croatia grew up, and from which the Faculty of Agriculture grew up in Zagreb and Osijek. Unfortunately, it is no longer possible to receive new students in the Križevci at all because on the one hand there is no student space, on the other hand there is no room in the home, and since we are followed by a very demanding agricultural reform in coordination with the European Union, I think we should definitely find funds here, if not like this, and then through the increase of decentralised funds that will be transferred to the Koprivnica-Crysing County in order to really enable the continuation of this tradition of agricultural education in Croatia and create personnel who will truly implement agricultural reform in the Republic of Croatia. I demand a vote in this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49573	Who's in favour of this amendment? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Now we're going to the 207th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49574	This amendment cannot be accepted for known reasons that are contrary to these legal options, but we recommend that it run for these other projects that we have regarding Abe 2 or when we open a project from 1 January in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49575	On behalf of the IDS club Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49576	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, that we're looking here at the club that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports at the position of 15 primary schools adds an item to build a primary school... in Buzet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We demand that these 2 million kuna be secured here. During 2005, the city of Buzet, along with the County of Istria, whose opportunities are nothing higher, approached the adaptation of one wing of the school building in the amount of if I am not mistaken for some 4 million kunas. Clearly, it is now necessary to approach the second stage for which such money should be re-provided, which is very difficult to find in the budget of the city of Buzet or the County of Istria. As far as this is concerned, if it is not in accordance with the law, it simply does not stand, we will certainly run for this project with regard to some of Mr. Šetić's instructions, personally I will try to get with Mr. Mayor Fleg to the Secretary of State to personally help us secure adequate funds for the elementary school... in Buzet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, bearing in mind the practice of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the funds are distributed exclusively where they are in power, I doubt that we will succeed, but no matter what we try to do, we will do everything to get the necessary funds and by believing in the word to the Secretary of State Mr. Šetić, we are withdrawing the amendment and I think we will make one great use of both the city of Buzet and for the speed of discussing these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49577	So our people are in power and in Istria. Amendment 207 has been withdrawn. Amendment 208. Representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49578	We cannot accept this amendment for the reason it was proposed here. These facilities are building from the decentralised means that you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49579	Yeah, I know that very well. But then I ask you to increase your decentralised resources. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] I warn you again that you and the primary school determine what is the minimum satander and that you will personally determine how much investment funds will be in decentralised funds for the next year for Koprivnica-Krisjevaca County. And this is about a Legrad elementary school that doesn't have a sanitary node within the building today, and there's no drinking water. Therefore, I ask you at least for that amount to increase the decentralised funds of Koprivnica-Krisjevaca County so that it can solve some of its problems. I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49580	Amendment 208 is withdrawn. Amendment 209 of MP Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49581	This amendment cannot be accepted for reasons because these capital facilities are financed from decentralised funds under the 2001 law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49582	Representative Chuhil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49583	Dear secretaries are just transferring it to decentralised funds in the county, and the county is transferring it to the state. In short, it is that the school of Jelisavac, which has almost 300 children where the minority children of the hall are largely missing. That it's physically occurring in practically narrow classes and turns out that we're simply transferring that hot, hot to say nut from one to the other. Once there's a decentralised asset. When they turn there, there goes El-2. When requested from EL-2, then it is said, "It will go from other state resources." The fact is that it should finally be agreed on which funds this hall will finance, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49584	Who's in? Amendment 209 failed. Amendment 210 of MPs Ivana Posavec-Krivec and Marija LUgarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49585	This amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that these capital facilities are built from decentralised funds under the 2001 law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49586	Dear representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49587	It is true, Mr. Secretary of State, but by the basis of this law you are precisely determining what are the minimum financial standards, and I hope that these for 2006 you will also provide more funds for school in Zagreb County and for school in Dug Sel, since it is a school that has experienced a significant boom. And please vote but before that, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament please check the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49588	The quorum. Where is he? 83, 83. No, no, yes. No, no, no, it's not like I'm predicting that much myself. We'll see. Come on, we don't have a quorum for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49589	The vote on Amendment 210. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 211 MP Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49590	This amendment cannot be accepted because these capital facilities are built from decentralised funds but we are particularly familiar with the problem of building an elementary school in Orehovica and it is run in the F-2 program and we think it will be built in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49591	There's no proposer. We vote. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 212 MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49592	This amendment cannot be accepted but this problem of building school facilities in Međimurje County is very well known as the Orehovica, St. Jurj na Breg, Kursanec and these facilities are run into the EI-2 program and it is the right way to be built.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49593	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49594	These first two, three items, so elementary schools in Oreshovica and Pribislavac, and the sports hall in Kursanac, refer to schools that are almost already today with 50% of Roma nationality students and we expect that the state should help in these projects. As far as the Center for Education and Education in Čakovec is concerned, there is an upgrade here because this school is attended by children with greater developmental difficulties and the school is actually too small, so it would have to expand and new contents are planned. So 19 classrooms for general curricula, 8 specialized classrooms, gym and health culture, space for physiotherapy and so on. So all that needs is the population that goes to this school. While building a sports hall in Ivan Goran Kovacic's elementary school in St. George, I think that's where the promise is to be made. So the Prime Minister in the election campaign promised with his signature that this project would go to 2006 and I'm surprised that this is not in the State budget. Well, I like to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49595	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives Mato Gavran and Mato Arlović. Amendment 213.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49596	This amendment cannot be accepted... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49597	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment 213? He didn't get the necessary majority. 214 also representatives Mato Arlović, Mato Gavran, Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49598	This amendment cannot be accepted for the same reasons because these capital facilities are constructed from decentralised assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49599	Representative Mato Raven. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 215, representatives Branimir Glavis, Ivan Drmic, Vladimir Šišljagić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49600	Yes, this amendment cannot be accepted because these capital facilities have been built since 2001 from decentralised funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49601	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49602	It's about the Jurdjevac Sports Hall. You know there's 796 students attending school, so they don't have a gym right now. The total price of investment somewhere around 8 million kuna and it was half-made, in 2003 the works stopped because there were no more funds to continue construction. The only chance to complete the ministry's intervention in the budget is the chance, otherwise what was done in further time and destruction. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49603	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 216, MP Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49604	This amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as I said, as since 2001 such capital facilities have been built from decentralised funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49605	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49606	It is simply not because you have in your budget for this year, the construction of a sports high school building in Zagreb, the construction of a crafts-technical school in Split, the construction of a sports hall in Bakru which therefore began to be built this year or next, which was newly introduced into the state budget, which means that they are being built in the way we propose with this amendment, rather than from decentralised funds. I don't know why you have double criteria all the time, one you point to being built from decentralised funds, and every year in the budget, two or three or four new schools on the one hand, and on the other hand you don't increase the county that doesn't have a single school directly from the budget of decentralised funds. So you increase all linearly, you do not increase Koprivnica and Križevci County funds for investment from decentralised funds because 230 schools are building from budgets none of which are in Koprivnica-Kristevina County. This is about high school in Križevci where classes take place in three shifts. I don't know how to get into the Crosses to the ideal of your one shift. Our ideal is in Križevci two shifts, but we can't get to it because you won't increase our decentralised funds or want to put us as 232 schools in the state budget. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49607	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 217, MPs Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49608	This amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient for those activities during 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49609	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 218, same MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49610	This amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient for those activities during 2006 to announce the public competition of contractors, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49611	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 219, representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49612	This amendment is not accepted for the reason that those capital projects relate to the construction of replacement school buildings in cases where existing high school buildings are to be returned to the owner or owner. The church is currently under way only one capital project relating to the construction and reconstruction of a military facility in Varazdin for the purposes of moving the medical school of Varazdin. As the return of the building is under way, owned by the nuns Ushulinka, who are now working at school, and according to the deadlines set, the schools will be carried out during the winter holidays. Since there are no new returns defined at this time, these are sufficient resources to cover contractual obligations for the Varazdin Medical School.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49613	There are no MPs. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 220, Agent Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49614	This amendment cannot be accepted because these capital facilities are made from decentralised funds, and the rest you know everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49615	Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49616	Thank you, Mr. President. I have almost understood the esteemed secretary of state, and the secretary of state is as much as I am, and perhaps a better known situation in the city of Pazin as a consequence of the devasted economy and the state of the budget, and the needs for this hall for numerous primary and secondary schools in the city of Pazin are well known, so please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49617	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 221, MP Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49618	The amendment is not accepted for the already known reasons for the construction of capital facilities in the Republic of Croatia and in education, but I would like to point out that 11 projects have been run in the EB2 programme from the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County, so we expect that some of these ideas will be built.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49619	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49620	I would like to point out that of these eight halls that I have written here are two already being built from decentralised funds, however, not all eight halls that are needed for primary schools can be built. So I'm asking you now that you're doing the 2006 budget by county... For 2006 by county when you will establish minimum standards to assign a disproportionately large amount to Koprivnica and Križevci County for investments in primary and secondary schools since I repeat this is the only county where no school is built directly from the budget, so please give more that the county can solve these problems. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49621	Amendment withdrawn. 222, also representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49622	That's the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49623	Same? Okay. Thank you. Retracted. 223.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49624	I must say, this is a similar argument. The amendment cannot be accepted because it is contrary to the legal possibilities of building capital school facilities since 2001.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49625	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49626	I think this is a completely specific case, so there's a building permit here, there's a secure land, a municipal infrastructure, and we've been offering it to the ministry since 2001 to accept and finance from this. So I'm asking you, obviously, that it's not going to go through with this right now, but it's certainly going into EB2 and it's being financed. So we're ready, anyway, and we've already opened a tender for contractors, so we need the support of this. It is really incorrect for the town of Koprivnica that, with all that we have done, we are also funding the building of a secondary school which is not in the jurisdiction of local self-government units, but in one building that is currently in Koprivnica for secondary schools, working three high schools and teaching day and night, waiting for someone to go to practice so that someone else can enter the classrooms. All corridors and even sanitary nodes are too built up to take place in secondary school. I think if we don't enter the EB2 we'll find the state systematically neglecting education in Koprivnica. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49627	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. IDS representative club, 224.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49628	I would like to say that this amendment cannot be accepted, but we would like to warn that the primary school in Balaam this year has received a million and a half thousand kuna for the construction of the building and that the construction of a sports hall in Rovinj has been nominated into the EB2 programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49629	And good if so, I would be more pleased to have the 5 million kuna in this budget for the Rovinj Sports Hall, i.e. 2 million kunas for the Sports Hall in Bala. The more a year and a half ago, there was a fire at that school in Balaam that burned to the ground, and only now have the work done recently been completed and finally keeping in mind that your parents are also, and so are you, Mr. Zetić, born from Bala, so who will make it clear to whom than their own. And in so much as you could, right in front of the government, agree to at least these symbolic 2 million kunas so that we could build this sports hall that the people of the Ball need. Not just for school but other needs. Although Mr. Kukurin, one of the co-owners of the TDR, could certainly do so at his expense without any greater pressure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49630	The vote. Amendment withdrawn. 225th Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49631	This amendment cannot be accepted but from the reserved and planned funds this activity will be realised.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49632	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49633	So my amendment went to set out in the state budget a special point of "Sports Games and Youth". It is an activity conducted by an association of citizens from Split who annually gathers over 10 thousand young people in Croatia during the summer months where they are engaged in sports all summer, and then as a reward they go to the final competition in Split. I think it's something of particular social importance, especially their motto "Sport versus others" where they really go for young people to spend their free time active during the summer. He's going to be doing sports, not doing in the docks, and I think he should definitely support it from the state budget. If you guarantee that the ministry will find other items and money. I'm giving up on this, and believe me, at the end of next year, I'm gonna check to see if you kept your word. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49634	Thank you. Amendment 225 withdrawn. 226th Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49635	I must say that this amendment cannot be accepted for already explained, well-known reasons, but I would like to say that the Varazdin County has run as many as 36 projects in the F2 programme, and I believe that some will be financed from this programme from these proposed ones. But here I may have forgotten to tell the ladies and gentlemen another source in the construction of capital facilities in the Municipality of Bale where the Croatian entrepreneur...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49636	Not now, Bale Municipality, now we have an amendment from MP Zlatko Korajevic. That's what you're looking at.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49637	I explained that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49638	Thank you. There are no MPs. Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. 227th Representative, Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49639	The amendment is rejected, cannot be accepted for the reason that, at this time, from the position of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, it is possible to provide 30 million kuna for the public needs of the Croatian Olympic Committee sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49640	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49641	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State. I do not know how, this year, part of the Croatian Olympic Committee's revenue from gambling is included in the budget item "Promoting public needs of sport" since they have never been shown so far. To encourage the public needs of sport in 2006 will need much more resources, given the fact that Croatian athletes participate in the Winter Olympics. From the budget's explanation, it is evident that this item from the election funds, as you said, is projected to be allocated from 30 million each year and 41 million from the gambling revenues. Experiences from the 2004 Olympics when there was a special budget item "Athena 2004". Out of 20 million kunas, the planned funds are not enough, repeated year after year and constantly compensated for the rebalancing from other budget items. For this reason, for the third year in a row, I propose that this amount be increased nominally in order to avoid continuous patching in this part of the budget. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49642	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 228th Representative Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49643	The amendment is not accepted for reasons other than the activity in the A-768012 budget to promote gender equality which is primarily intended to promote equality in sport. The ministry's intensity is that through other activities within division 08030, the ministry insists on equality and the ability to engage in sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49644	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49645	Mr. Secretary of State, insistence and declarationability is one thing, the means of budget and concrete implementation are another. In fact, there is an initiative by the International Olympic Committee to ensure equality in sport for women. I particularly think that this is important in Croatia when we meet an under-sports active female population, and I especially think about high school girls and students, which then significantly increases some health risks. And on the other hand, all those who have at least done a little sport, unfortunately, and most people do not know that in all women's competitions, especially collective sports, women have mostly fewer prize funds, get smaller cups, and there is no gender equality in the sport competitions themselves. Of course, this equality does not exist at the expense of women, and I think that in full, full amount, we should support the initiative of the International Olympic Committee and that indeed these funds, which are minimal anyway, about 300 thousand kuna, are back as they were last year. I think that even the successes of some of our athletes prove that they should not only be proud of them but that they should provide preconditions for all women who are involved in sports, athletes, to be treated and at least equal to how our male male colleagues are involved in sports. From the already mentioned smaller prize funds, smaller prizes, to more unfavourable conditions in the halls themselves and the meaning of the term, etc. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49646	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 229th Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49647	The amendment cannot be accepted for the reason why the ministry's intensities are in its items and plans to encourage sports in school sports clubs, in this case on islands, the school population is firstly activated as the basis for developing sport on islands, and these items in the 2006 budget are already increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49648	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49649	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, last year, in the budget's explanation, it was very important to encourage sport as a prerequisite for the remaining young population on the islands, and I was very pleased with such an initiative by the ministry. This is in itself sufficient reason to accept this amendment, but I note that it should record the state of sport on the islands and support those islands of the environments that already have developed sporting activities, as well as those that have just begun. I personally know more examples from the Kvarner Islands where sports activities, such as bowling, shooting, sports fishing and martial arts were launched at the level of the local community, but because of the lack of funds after the placements in the higher rankings, they simply could not continue without additional help. You mentioned school sports companies here, but this wasn't about school sports companies. It was about encouraging sports on the islands. I mean, sports clubs. That is why I am so sorry now, and I really don't understand why this activity has given up before it even started to take place. These millions of kunas would mean a step forward in order to keep young people on islands and maintain their physical and mental health and outside schools on islands. And I'm asking for a vote, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49650	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 230s Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49651	The amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that the existing number of swimming pools in the Republic of Croatia is not sufficient to enable the implementation of swimming training in schools, and the strategy of the ministry is primarily based on the adoption of a new Law on Sports and Sublaws which will regulate normative sports buildings, construction of swimming sites, and thus create conditions for comprehensive implementation of swimming training.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49652	Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49653	... fellow Secretary of State. [[Specially enabled.]] I must say, first of all, that we are admitting that the idea is accepted at all to allocate funds for this purpose and that it is singled out here at this position a million kunas for training non-swimming children to become swimmers. But we believe that this is an extremely small resource, since unfortunately in Croatia, several 10-years of our children are killed by drowning because they do not know how to swim on our rivers, on our bikes, lakes, and of course they can. We believe that there is a need to allocate more resources because we would like to add, this is the fact that there is an increase in the number of possible swimming places, given the fact that there is a programme of education and education for children in nature and that many of them perform this programme precisely in the areas of tourist and restaurant and in its contents where both swimming sites are located and where natural education can also be applied to non-swimmmers. And in such a situation, we believe that the millions of kuna funds are too small and we would pray for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49654	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 231, Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49655	This amendment cannot be accepted for the same reasons I explained for Amendment 230.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49656	Who's in favour of this amendment? There's no representative. He didn't get the necessary majority. 232. Representatives Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49657	The amendment cannot be accepted on the grounds that funds from the state budget and other sources are provided for the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. This is the largest amount so far and is almost fully secured in the state budget, the insurance issue from other sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49658	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49659	Mr. Secretary of State, it is not true that this is the largest amount to be allocated from the state budget for the National Foundation since in 2003 for this, for the National Foundation for Science programme that applied to high education, 11 million kunas were allocated, which is 1 million kuna more than we have now. Secondly, when we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament in the adoption of the report of the National Foundation for Science and Technology Development Management Board, it was out of the majority, in fact, of all MPs pointed out that it was necessary to increase the donations of a series of national budgets for the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development so that the Foundation could continue with those programmes as planned. I am surprised, given that there was also an explanation at the time, or a promise from the ministry, that your ministry would increase the budget for 2006, and so was the position, but absolutely all the MPs who participated in the debate at the time. Of course I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49660	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. The 233rd representative of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49661	This amendment cannot be accepted and here I would like to explain that the item previously provided by these increased funds are now directly re-scheduled to the activities of the student centres in the 2006 budget on the State Audit proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49662	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49663	Exactly, Mr. Secretary of State, but this does not apply to this 621-058 conto where student standards are improved programmes, but the funds for scholarships, funds for the work of student associations and the Croatian Student Assembly are directly transferred through this 311 Conto to individual universities. But on that at all, it is not at all the subject of this amendment now, because it is here that the item that remains as the programmes for improving student standards that have to close, conditionally speaking, some holes that occur during the year related to the financing of student accommodation, nutrition and housing subsidies as well as certain scholarships financed by the Ministry itself can in some way all these programmes close down. You are now proposing in this budget to reduce the amount of student standard improvement programmes to 40 million kuna. I'm just going to warn you that for that purpose in 2003 we had 94 million kuna secured, that you've reduced it to about 90, and now you're reducing to a completely unacceptable 40 million kuna, which is more than 50%. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49664	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 234. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49665	This amendment cannot be accepted because it is only in progress to establish a university in Pula, and universities in Istria and Pula are now tied to universities in Rijeka. And no share balance has yet been made, so it is not yet possible to sort these funds so that this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49666	Yes, on the other hand, say, 15 million kuna stands out for the University of Mostar. For example, for this university that should begin relatively almost with the work of just a million and a few thousand kunas. I don't think it's just wrong, it's not compatible with the needs of Istrian space. And so much I would really ask the MPs to understand the need to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49667	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 235th Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49668	This amendment cannot be accepted for the simple reason why the proposed amount is sufficient to meet the planned needs for capital investment programmes at the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49669	There's no representative. Who's up for that amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the votes he needed. 236, IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49670	This amendment cannot be accepted because in 2001 the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports financed audio-visual and telecommunications equipment. The ministry is now financing scientific equipment for support scientific projects. Zvezdarnica Visnjana does not have a contract on a scientific project, so they cannot be provided with equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49671	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49672	Look at it this way. Last year, the Secretary of State, Mr Nevio Šetić, replied about a similar or the same amendment, that the amendment is clearly not accepted because the planned funds amounting to a million and 200 thousand kuna are the amount needed for those expenditures throughout Croatia. I was about to say that, Mr. President, the IDS Club here requires that a small amount of 250,000 kuna be directed towards the activity of the Vishnynja starry, I dare say, that it may be one of the most significant, I will not say scientific but research institutions on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. That's what I said last year. Why? Because that starhouse in that small Istrian place so far has discovered maybe a thousand, maybe a thousand hundred hundred meteors, which is a variety of asteroids, which is the 4th, 5th place of such institutions in the world. I said, among other things, that many in the world have not even heard of the Republic of Croatia, but they have heard of this starry. With that in mind, that one research pearl, I hold that it would be opportunized to ensure in the state budget such a small, modest, and for an asterisk a significant asset of no more than 250,000 kunas that many of their activities could finance. I want to believe that we will support this very research work of these young people for whom, I repeat, there are all references. Because behind them there are a thousand 400 to a thousand 500 discovered what meteors, which asteroids, and that we will clearly give them support and support to continue in the future with this activity. So many respected gentlemen of the council, Mr. Secretary of State, Minister, President of the Parliament. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49673	Please. Who's up for the amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the number of agents he needed. 237, representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49674	This amendment cannot be accepted. We remain on our proposal because the three-year period of the 2002 contractual projects is on completion and the call for proposals for new projects is expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49675	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49676	Yes, Mr. Secretary of State, we can know in advance that these new projects won't be because there's less money. I must admit that this amendment has been extremely correct, which may not be what we need for 2006, but what we already had. Namely, the programmes and projects for scientific and research activities, the amount that was for this purpose in the State budget was secured in 2003 by 185 and a half million kuna, you reduced it to 139 and a half million kuna. Of course, the new agreed projects will not be more than your planned ones, and I believe that the Republic of Croatia, which has an ambition based on knowledge, which has an ambition to develop technologies, knowledge and which are precisely in knowledge and scientific research projects that would then have implications for the economy want to see its progress, can not even in the wildest dreams think of reducing resources for research projects. When we know that with these 139 and a half million kunas last year only for recient fees spent more than 5 million kunas, I wonder we're just funding some kind of administration and actually what right we should bear progress, continuous funds we reduce. I therefore ask the vote, because I really do, I think that if anything else is needed, and that funding for scientific research projects goes back to the level that these funds were in 2003. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49677	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 238, also representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49678	This amendment cannot be accepted, the ministry remains with its proposal, as Article 55. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who entered into force on 1 January 2005, the Government is obliged to set up a Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders, their children for regular undergraduate studies and to compensate for part of the costs for postgraduate studies.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49679	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49680	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm afraid it has nothing to do with my amendment, this explanation. Namely, the point of scholarship and scientific training of graduates existed before in the budget, there is also now a small difference that you are means of scholarship and scientific training of graduates from year to year simply reducing. This provision of the Defence Act that the Government is obliged to provide a special fund existed before, it is no newspaper. I'd just like to say that this item involves paying tuition for postgraduate students as well as the cost of making master's degree and PhD. I ask you, in a situation where we are conducting a Bologna reform, in a situation where we are chronically lacking scientific, teaching staff in Croatia, in a situation where we are constantly talking about how we should work on rejuvenation of scientific staff, at the same time reducing funding, i.e. the training and scholarship of graduates for their master's and PhDs, and on the other hand we have not in any way increased salaries. Today, this younger scientific staff has the salary of a better paid cleaning woman in a better state firm, so about 4, 4 and a half thousand kuna, and then we expect that from the salary of 4, 4 and a half thousand kuna, those people who prepare the master's degree and PhD pay their postgraduate studies of 15 to 20 thousand kuna a year, and at the same time in the budget, we're saying that we don't have enough scientific staff. I don't mind that very much, so I'd like to ask that those funds return at least to the 2003 level and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49681	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 238, representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49682	No, I think it's 239.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49683	239, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49684	This amendment cannot be accepted. The ministry remains with its proposal for 2006, very simple, because for this purpose funds are planned for the national Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development gyro-account, finds a significant amount of funds from previous years that have not yet been implemented, as not all projects and programmes for which the foundation has launched the tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49685	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49686	Two things, Mr. Secretary of State. Do you know how much you suggest that in 2006 it be allocated to the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development in this part of research? Zero kuna. Not a single kuna. The funds that exist on the National Foundation's account could not have been spent so far, given that there was simply not enough funds to which the Foundation Manager warned us when we had a discussion in the Croatian Assembly about the Foundation's work report. You not only reduce funds for a trust in a section that should refer to higher education, primarily to... studies but now completely remove funds for the National Foundation from this section of science, from this scientific research section. I find it totally unacceptable because if it is a national foundation, I think it must be financed from the State budget, and it seems to me that under the Law on the National Foundation, it is the obligation of the state to make a part of the funds come from the budget, and we have now put zero kunas. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49687	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 240, also representing Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49688	This amendment cannot be accepted. The Ministry of National and University Library provides full pay, material costs. Therefore, we can only say that 8.8 million kunas spent in 2005 were allocated to informing the reconstruction of the library fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49689	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49690	I would like your attention on this amendment. The proposal for a budget for 2006 reduces the resources dated from the budget for the National and University Library. What remains now of all the programmes financed by the State for the National and University Library is what Mr. Secretary of State said, therefore exclusively salaries and material costs, the cold drive of the library while we completely remove funds to inform the library and to obtain books. I do not think that any national parliament can be proud of the fact that co-financing, i.e. the funding of the National and University Library, is entirely domicile, so I am asking the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49691	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 241, MP Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49692	We cannot accept this amendment. The Ministry remains with its proposal for the 2006 budget, noting that the evaluation of the projects will be carried out so far in 2006 in order to obtain the relevant information which would be the basis for the 2007 budget, as annual investments must justify the funds spent for that purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49693	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49694	I agree with you, Mr. Secretary of State. This is about our colleagues and colleagues reducing the resources in this budget for the project programmes of technological, research and development activities. I don't know what time the example is that we're reducing funds precisely for those purposes that we're at least all claiming we should increase and on which we can build a developmental, competitive economy, given that we're working here specifically on four agreed cores of the project, that 14 projects and the fact is that these contractual obligations are somewhere around 21 million kuna, but it's also the fact that we can't take one step forward if we don't increase the allocation of funds for the programmes and technological research projects, so the more we're doing that amount that I'm proposing to increase the budget proposal for 2006, from 33.6 million kuna, we've already achieved in 2003 and that we've continuously reduced these last two or three years. I will remind myself of the recommendations of the National Competitiveness Council and some other assessments of international experts who say it is entirely unacceptable for us to continuously reduce funds in Croatia specifically for these programmes and projects that have the task of direct transfers and knowledge and scientific research towards the economy and the development of new technologies. So I'd like to ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49695	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Now we are done with the amendments at the position of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Ministry of Education of the Republic of Croatia State Secretary Nevio Šetić. Amendment 242 of MP Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49696	This amendment cannot be accepted because boring resources for these activities have been provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49697	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49698	Dear Mr. Secretary of State really does, no matter what the amendment will not be accepted, wonders your explanation, if it can be called an explanation. It's about education, human rights. Last year, 360 thousand kunas were provided for human rights education, so when it was seen as too much, if we were too educated in the field of human rights, then we reduced it to 70 thousand to 290 thousand kuna, so it was clear that it wouldn't hurt our eyes, so that someone wouldn't call us if we didn't care for the development of human rights in Croatia, so that we would cut from 360 thousand kuna to another 70,000 kuna. Here I suggest 500 grand of good hands, so please accept that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49699	Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. The 243rd representative of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49700	This amendment cannot be accepted because the planned funds are sufficient for the implementation of these activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49701	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49702	Mr. Secretary of State, since... The amendment from this portfolio of ours I am quite concerned with these planned activities, since everything is sufficient, and we have had the opportunity to testify for the last two years that it is not nearly enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I propose an amendment to get funds for international... students' knowledge increases, and I don't suggest it without any connection from some kind of obscenities and malice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, next year, we have to do the first letter of research, it's international... which is being implemented parallelly in most European countries and it seems to me that these funds are not going to be enough but will not allow for such a verification, this international implementation of the "PISA" project in the way it is envisaged with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the project itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me that there is no such thing in the ministry's budget anywhere, that you've obviously become a little confused or overlooked certain activities, so unless this amendment passes at the vote, and I don't think there's a single development amendment going on here, you're going to have to deal with it in the rebalancing process, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49703	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Secretary of State. We're going to the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Secretary of State Zvonimir Golem. Amendment 244 by Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49704	Mr. President, honourable MPs. The amendment is not accepted. The Centre for Social Welfare Resolution Fund, Koprivnica, is provided through the World Bank loan funds at positions K618-352 and 618-354.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49705	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49706	Well, I filed this amendment last year and you gave the same explanation last year, and I hope now that the loan is finally going to work, because it's hardly a year we could wait. I hope indeed that in 2006 the Centre for Social Care will start to build in order to create suitable conditions for people who do very difficult work, and now they have received another complicated job, which is the return of these administrative fees. I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49707	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 245th Representatives Nenad Stazić and Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49708	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, apart from the planned funds to... 1260 protection of military and civilian disabled war in the amount of 360 million, realization by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 11 months this year, it was about 260 thousand kuna, and we believe that the planned funding for 2006 is sufficient for the implementation of the programme. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49709	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49710	Look, the realisation was smaller because you didn't touch government funds, so they couldn't spend it because they didn't get it, and what they got was enough for them just for the cold drive. They don't have any activity, and I remind you here you and all the MPs that we here in this Sabou consensus brought a declaration of... Therefore, I think it is our duty to provide sufficient resources in the budget and for the alliance of fighters and anti-fascists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no point leaving them at that church that I can't get any programs out of. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49711	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 246. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49712	It's the same amendment again, unfortunately we can't accept. I repeat, it is about the realisation of other rights, therefore, to protect military and civilian people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49713	IDS Club, Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49714	Mr. President, we're asking that here at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare at this position is realized by the realization of these other rights of military and civilian disability wars with 500 thousand kuna, meaning for 650 thousand kuna for another 150 thousand kuna. And after yesterday... Let's say Stipe Mesic I don't think there should be any doubt about a single amendment like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The truth may be that Croatia will come into a different position with regard to the return when Washington and Tel A Viv ask us about the Jews, but for now I hold that such an amendment would be opportunised. We can't, for example, call for nob fluids when we're against the return of property to the Austrians, and be against their financing and providing funds for their uninterrupted work, just the opposite of those values, I hold that our authority has to be legitimateized as well. What I particularly regret is that, after their Israeli tour here, there are no HSP representatives who I am convinced would support the amendment in a warm way, so probably this way from this opposition circle would come to the majority. However, no matter what, and bearing in mind this reality of the political moment, I ask HDZ representatives to accept that these funds from 500 thousand kuna are increasing to 650 or to a modest 150 thousand kuna. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49715	Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. The 247th Amendment of Representative Zlatko Korajevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49716	The amendment is not accepted as part of the position A734-186 training for independent life and work, and a programme of integration of persons with special needs is implemented. The planned funds in this position are consistent with the consumption of around 900 thousand kuna in this year, so I believe that the planned funds will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49717	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49718	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49719	Amendment withdrawn. 248th representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49720	The amendment of Mršić's representative is not accepted because the planned size of 909 thousand in this position is the result of requests in the institution from the above-mentioned activities, so we estimate that the funds will be sufficient to settle all expenditures on the 37-21 account according to the request of the institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49721	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49722	So this is about the amount of funds given to children who are without adequate parental care and are located in foster families. Since 2002, they get a thousand 640 kunas each month and bring their foster parents into very unspeakable situations because, in the meantime, all their energies have grown, they have increased the cost of living, and their foster parents should ensure their quality of life, such as having the quality of life of children without adequate parental care located in institutions. Unfortunately, in here for 4 years, no increase in the amount that children receive from foster parents has been made. And I'm really surprised there's no willingness to do that now, especially after UNICEF's "Every Child Needs a Family" action. How will you motivate foster families to take children if you give them such small amounts with which they cannot practically provide enough money or food, let alone clothes, shoes, extracurricular activities, to spend free time on children, for school textbooks. Every year they struggle over whether the welfare centers will pay them back and how much money for textbooks. I really think that if we want to determine the deinstitutionalisation of social care in this area that we cannot, on the one hand, advocate it and we cannot take pictures of ourselves on the one hand by various UNICEF actions and, on the other hand, for four years, leave the same amount of thousands and 640 kuna per child. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49723	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. The 249th representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49724	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reason as Amendment 244. So the funds for investing in the House for Children's Building "Spring" Koprivnica are secured through the World Bank loan funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49725	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49726	We didn't see that in this, since you have a whole series of homes that are particularly prominent for additional construction investments in this. But I want to say, especially with regard to this previous amendment. So, children who are located in institutions and without adequate parental care for them, the ministry monthly depends on their homes to their homes, which is among 4 thousand 500 kuna, which is the Children's House for Children "Swimming" in Koprivnica up to as much as 11 thousand kuna. What has been done so far in the House for Children "Sprivnica" in Koprivnica is mostly more than 90% of it being made out of donations and contributions from citizens. And here's if that's exactly what you're saying I'm gonna give up the amendment, but I'm asking you to make it happen because children in the Children's Home "Spring" Koprivnica who are the cheapest ministry deserve to have standards as well as children in other children's homes. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49727	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn 249. 250th Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49728	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds amounting to 6 thousand kunas are estimated to be sufficient for the completion of the equipment of the House for Children and Youth "Maestral" Split at the site Kaštel Lukšić. Investment in this facility was made over three years in both construction and equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49729	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49730	It is a home for children and youth "Maestral" in which children are located without parents or without any care. It's shrinking now in the budget, the funds are shrinking. That's what's really weird to me. I wish someone could explain how to get these numbers. I don't think even Solomon would have guessed how much that goes down by 414 thousand 288 kuna. Well, that's because to me, I'm purely cocky, since it's not 287 or 289 kuna. I'm surprised by these numbers. But like this, it's my own personal dilemma about how it got to, say, those 288 kunas. But I'm not giving up the amendment and I'm proposing a million and 500 thousand kuna sum.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49731	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 251. Representatives Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49732	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the government's decision on 1 January 2002 transferred the founding rights of homes to older and powerless units of the district self-government in which homes are established. Until then, capital investments will continue to be financed from the state budget and after the transfer of founding rights until the completion of construction as the House for the Elderly and Powerless Vukovar. The funds for the House of Elderly and Powerless in Pozega are planned through decentralised functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49733	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49734	Unfortunately, they are planned, but they cannot reach the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Požega and the home needs to be reconstructed. Of course, installations should be changed, bathrooms and shared rooms, façades and everything else necessary, and therefore we have opened this new item and we suggest that it be accepted. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49735	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 252. Representatives Mate Gavran and Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49736	The amendment is also not accepted, we say, for the same legal reason as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49737	Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49738	With the arguments already mentioned that we disagree with your argument, I would like to remind you that the House of Old and Powerless in Slavonski Brod has suffered war destruction, has not been renewed and maintained for years because there has been no funds. At the time of the Homeland War and the pores, the home took care of exiles and refugees from the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina. He didn't get the right funds for all of that. It is also necessary to invest in this home to raise standards on a minimum basis for providing services for older and powerless persons. And that's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49739	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 253th Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49740	And this amendment, unfortunately, cannot be accepted for the same reasons. Therefore, as of 1 January 2002, the only way to finance can go through decentralised funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49741	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49742	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you see, in these half-hours before we talk about kindergartens as something that defines our future in terms of child care and our concern that their education and their education, preschool education is brought to a level that is equal to those perspectives that we want to open on the other side of the home for older and powerless persons especially on islands that should actually be developed in the form of certain patronage centers, means certain assistance to people on the island because it is often forgotten and thought that on the island there is no need for homes for the elderly and the powerless, but even though these patronage centers which in some way would be a substitute or quality replacement for the way of life on islands that a whole day stay can be spent in that center, that you can hang out and in the evening come back to your family. That was the intention of this amendment, which he wanted in cooperation with the municipality of Tisno, to try to implement such a project. But if you think it can't be I'd beg to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49743	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 254 of MP Korajevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49744	Unfortunately, like the previous four amendments, for the same reason, we are forced to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49745	Representative Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49746	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49747	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 255. Representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49748	Same reason, we can't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49749	Thank you very much. So even here, when it was also an exception to the fact that last year, there was a section in the resolution ministry that spoke about this particular object that was not realized because of the paperwork, it meant that the permits and the outcome solutions were not in line with what the budget at the time predicted, so I'm surprised that at this moment we don't have such a single centre, or he's declared to be the home of the pensioners, although in nature it's once again a patronage centre that has a double character, very few accommodation units, six to seven persons, and the rest is a necessary regime for the supply of older people who remain living in their homes but use this one communal vision of care during the days when they can feel differently. I think it's a model that, that was discussed last year, developed as one maybe good pilot project on our islands where it's not really necessary to do standard retirement homes but just such patronage centres, so that your family stays in office and your parents have the opportunity to stay in common rooms during the day. I think that's the kind of project you should support. I hope here at least our fellow pensioners will support such a single project. I'd like a vote if I could.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49750	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 256 of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49751	The amendment is not accepted. The projected funds are not the only funds. Prevention programmes during 2006 continue to be funded by the Global Fund for the fight against HIV, where 9 million 627 thousand are scheduled to go far and planned for the amendment next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49752	The representative is not present. Please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment of 257th Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49753	The amendment is also not accepted. It is the same problem, and in the same way it will be financed by most of the global funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49754	It's about education in high schools on HIV or AIDS. So the reduction in this compared to last year's budget by 1 million 256 thousand and 800 kuna. I'm really surprised. According to this budget, we've made so much progress in the development of human rights that we're reducing those 390 to what I know about 70,000 kuna. We've made progress in the education of high school students about the knowledge of AIDS, and we're reducing them by as much as a million 256 kunas. Soon it looks like they'll have to give it to us because they know too much about it. I really propose 3 million and 500 thousand kuna for this because I think it's too serious a question to play with. I'm proposing a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49755	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment to the 258th Representative of the Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49756	The amendment is not accepted. The funds in position for the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Centre are secured by respecting the degree of completion of the project and the possibility of withdrawing funds in view of the tender procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49758	Mr. Secretary of State proposed 24 million kunas intended to produce project documentation for the new KBC business facilities of Rijeka should be increased by 50 million since the construction of new KBC facilities has already been built, an idea solution has already been developed, and the City Council of the City of Rijeka adopted a detailed plan at its session on 27 October this year to arrange the territory of the new university campus and the Clinical Hospital Centre on Trisat. This meets all formal assumptions that allow the start of the project of a new clinical hospital. This further created the conditions for the development of an idea solution to be harmonised by the end of January next year with the adopted detailed plan of arrangement. I must also remind you that just last week Minister Primorac opened works on the construction of a university campus, and there is really no reason to parallel with these works, not to continue making an idea and main project of a new university hospital, since they are happy and connected projects at the same location. In view of the estimates that in 2006 it is necessary to provide a minimum of 70 million kuna for this capital activity to increase by these proposed 50 million kunas with the amendment, which would be in line with the Minister's promise of his last visit to Rijeka even though the argument we have heard here shows the Minister's unbelief. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49759	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment to the 259th Alenka Košiša Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49760	The amendment is not accepted but we must again mention the overall fight against AIDS, where education is included, is foreseen by donation of 9 and a half million kuna, which will certainly be enough for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49761	The representative is not present. Please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 260 to MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49762	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Health and Social Care provided for the application of Article 37 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Public Procurement Act provides 45 million kuna for hospital equipment between 2006 and 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49763	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49764	The construction of the General Hospital in Zabok, which will be completed next year, provides adequate healthcare for a large number of residents in the area, but needs to be equipped. Therefore, the building that will be completed in 2006 should be adequately equipped in 2006 not until 2008. Well, I'm not giving up. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49765	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment to the 261st legislator Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49766	The amendment cannot be accepted. The Health Protection Act, in Article 8 of 2003, is not allowed to invest in health institutions not owned by the Republic of Croatia but is planned through decentralised functions of the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49767	Thank you very much. We have to notice, and it is not my pleasure to even notice that there is a General Hospital of Sibenik somehow following the sequence of these events regarding Sibenik. You know, I don't think it's a good thing and that unbalanced development to say that the Adriatic part of Croatia is not a good place to lay on such foundations. Because Šibenik General Hospital is one single item with zero resources in the State Budget, and the situation in the General Hospital of Šibenik cannot be called satisfactory in terms of providing health services, and especially not satisfactory in terms of the obligation it has in terms of belonging to the General Hospital of Sibenik, and especially during the tourist season when the number of patients, visitors and also the area that belongs to the particular island space of central Dalmatia, which is based solely on the general hospital of Sibenik, is such in terms of pressure that it simply does not fail and it destroys not only the quality of health care but also that very important effect of tourism which must naturally rely on that health care. Therefore, it is not at least polite to remove complete funds from Sibenik General Hospital and has zero resources and it is simply not right regardless of your assessment of the decentralisation of funds because it is clear that Sibenik-Knin County unfortunately does not have enough resources to separate the part needed for the General Hospital of Sibenik from its own resources. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49768	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 262. MP Arlović, Gavran, Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49769	The amendment is not accepted. So the procurement of equipment from the Ministry of Health for a large part of the General Hospital Osijek... of the third loan of the Council of Europe under paragraphs 618,242, 618,244. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49770	Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49771	Yes, the European Community loan, however, is not said in large part, but it does not say how much and is it sufficient? Five million kunas are provided here and it is obvious that it is not possible to equip the cardiovascular surgery of the clinical hospital Osijek and therefore we suggest that it be at this stage at least 10 million kunas because it is necessary for this department to get the appropriate medical apparatus needed in modern medicine when treated, treat heart disease and cardiovascular parts of the human organism. A modern apparatus that this hospital doesn't have and which should be provided. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49772	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 263 by Glavas, Drmic, Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49773	The amendment is completely identical to the previous one and we can't accept it but we can say it this way now. So, the equipment of complete cardiosurgery at the Clinical Hospital Osijek... The Council of Europe, and for the rest of the equipment, is a budget item of 5 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We think that's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49774	Representative Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49775	So if I had heard this argument two years ago, then I might have agreed with him, because last year the same thing was said to the Council of Europe's credit line, the councils of this or that, however, for a year now, the space that has been adapted to cardiosurgery has been empty. You are aware that the Osijek hospital is being gravitated by a million inhabitants, and I would also remind you that the government's debt of 20 million to the Clinical Hospital Osijek was completed in 2003, and the funds are precisely intended to equip cardiosurgery. In addition to these cardiosurgery personnel, the Osijek hospital has, and also the Osijek hospital, and for over half a year, it's doing coronary surgery. Coronarography and all possibilities of coronaryography for patient care, and I remind you of 4 thousand patients waiting in Croatia for cardiac surgery. I think that by detaching at least in 2006 10 million as proposed by this amendment that the Ministry of Health must detach to equip cardiosurgery in Osijek. Given the reasons and the refusal of the amendments, I ask you to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49776	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment of 264th legislator Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49777	The amendment refers to the same problem and is not accepted either. We believe that the planned funds will be sufficient for cardiosurgery in Osijek to function in 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49778	The representative is not present. Please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment of 265th Representatives Mate Gavran and Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49779	Unfortunately, we cannot accept this amendment as well as the amendment relating to the General Hospital of Sibenik for the same reason that the investments will, therefore, be dealt with by general hospitals in the owner of the county's founders through decentralised funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49780	Agent Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sure you're very well aware of the state of the Brod-Posavina County economy. You are also very well aware of how decentralised the funds are provided for this purpose for the Brod-Posavina County area, but because of the public and colleagues who believe to support this amendment, they amount to 16 million 700,000 kuna. From these means, we should do everything that's almost impossible to do. In the end, we heard that the government had made many promises at a session held in Slavonski Brod on September 22nd. True, we didn't know what was going to happen, so we heard that the Eastern Vesna Road will be realized in the period 2009 until I don't know either in 2012 or 2014. And also, on September 22nd, the government decided to build up the General Hospital polyclinic Dr. In Slavonski Brod, Josip Bencevic solves it as follows. That the design and construction is financed from the County's funds and by making project documentation by means of own resources, and by building and equipment from decentralised functions, i.e. the funds of 3 million kuna in the period from 2006 to 2008. Since Brod-Posavia County has no money, I stress that this first part can do itself, and the state of health, especially in this second part, the citizens of Brod-Posavina County are well known to you at least. I'm appealing to you to try to find another way. If you do not accept this amendment at least to provide quality resources in due time to get to a polyclinic as soon as possible. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49782	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 266 of Representative Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49783	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, according to the Ministry of Health... funds for financing of the hospital general practice and dental office of Brtonija are located within the framework of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Transport in the loan of the European Investment Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49784	The representative is not present. Please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 267 by MP Korajevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49785	The amendment is not accepted. Unfortunately, we are unable to accept for the same reason as the previous amendments. So, since 1.1.2002, we can't participate as a state, but we have to go through decentralised funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49786	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49787	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 268.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49788	It's not accepted either. It is also explained that it will have to be found and found through decentralised funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49789	Voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49790	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 269 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49791	It is also a special hospital for chronic diseases, according to which under the same legal provision we are not able to finance directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49792	Voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49793	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment to the 270th legislator, Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49794	The amendment can also not be accepted for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49795	Voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49796	Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment of the 271st representative Zlatko Korakevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49797	And this amendment, unfortunately, cannot be accepted for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49798	Voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49799	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 272. of MPs Arlović, Brdarić and Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49800	Therefore, the amendment is not accepted but according to the project of the Ministry of Health for Early Disclosure of Breast Cancer, the screening of mammography will be carried out every two years on the burden of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute's resources. And in the Ministry of Health and Social Care, only promotional means were provided for the print of educational brochures for 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49801	Representative Arlovic, vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49802	A respected colleague of the vice president, state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. These are not promotional means, these are the means in the item of prevention and early detection of breast cancer. So it's not just about preventive means, it's about the fact that it's about the whole process. I must say that the problem of cancer as a disease in the Republic of Croatia was particularly evident and particularly expressed after the war and after the war, which is probably the result of such an effect on the stressful position that citizens have and that a large number of patients appear with different types and forms of cancer, and especially this severe disease has occurred in women when breast cancer is involved and in this respect is growing and more and more young women who are getting this severe disease. And it is known that when it comes to younger people, or as younger people, it is becoming more and more difficult to prevent and treat them. For such reasons it is quite clear that 250,000 kuna is a completely marginal means for this fight, prevention and early detection, and even for the educational part if it is intended only for education. We have predicted at least 700 thousand kunas to be separated for this purpose and we propose that this amendment be accepted and we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49803	Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 273, Alenka Koshasha MP Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49804	So the amendment is not accepted. It's about the same amendment as before, so feel free to repeat it. The early discovery project of breast cancer is funded from the position of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, and as each project has more sources of funding. We consider our planned $250,000 to be sufficient in the distribution of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49805	The representative is not present. Please vote. Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. And last amendment, 274 MPs of the Chichin-Shain basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49806	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds for the implementation of the association programme are sufficiently secured at the position of A618157 of the current donation in cash of 5 million and 350 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49807	Thank you. Who's in? The amendment didn't go. I thank the Secretary of State. From the article of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, amendment 275 of the representative Marin Jurjevic. I'm asking Minister Shuker for an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government does not accept this amendment, because according to a proposal from the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, these envisaged funds will be sufficient for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49809	Dear Mr. Ministers here is about those who are uninvited about the restoration and arrangement of the Milesi Palace in Split, which is the headquarters of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. For even more uninvited last year, 106,000 kunas were scheduled for the rescue, and this year they were taken from them by 6 thousand kuna. Watch out for six thousand kunas and leave 100,000 kunas, because the government has calculated that they've been given too much. And the minister says it'll be enough 100 grand, and that 106 grand is full. I think it was wiser for you to give each 100 kuna at that session and get those 6 thousand kunas. Here I take the obligation that we will get it if it will solve the situation, but 6 thousand kuna for the seat, for the rehabilitation of Milesi Palace and its arrangement, which is the headquarters of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in Split, is sorry, but it is offensive. So that's why I'm proposing as many as 200 thousand kunas and I'm asking you to back me up on that, for science's sake.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49810	You've broken the Rules of Procedure. I haven't given you a word at all, you're already talking for two minutes. Who's in? The amendment her got the required majority. We're moving on to the amendments from the Justice Department's district. With us is State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Amendment 276, MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49811	Amendment 276 Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Government does not accept because the capital project to which the proposed amendment refers is KA108612 emergency intervention on the buildings of the judicial authorities and prisons has been abolished and is replaced by the second position of KA629243 emergency intervention on the buildings of judicial bodies which include prison bodies of 2 million and 500 thousand kuna. And the second position of that is also, which is zero now in the budget for, and the second position then,... a prison system building in 2006 with a zero amount. [[You don't understand.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49812	Dear Representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49813	So you see that amount, even if it were in a second position of 2 million kuna, is not enough, because from the government we are here from the ministry itself, there have been so many announcements that there are going to be new prisons, and now there are no funds enough to get rid of the existing buildings, and it is certainly not enough for the judicial authorities, nor for the prison system as a whole can even be close enough for the current repairs, but for the restoration of buildings anyway is not enough. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49814	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 277, same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49815	It is not accepted because the municipality court building in Zlatar is completely completed. The furniture was ordered, delivered and so the building is fully equipped and will be open before the new year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49817	I wasn't aware of it, but they told me it stopped. Well, if that's true, then I'll withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49818	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49819	Amendment 277 withdrawn. Amendment of 278 MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49820	The government doesn't accept. The amendment refers to the construction and equipment of a prison hospital building in Zagreb. It refers to an amount of about 500 thousand kuna. It is true that the Zagreb prison hospital should be upgraded and equipped, however, the amount for those procedures needed is insufficient and is foreseen in the ministry's 2007 budget for its projections.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49822	I'm sorry, this is a situation that can't wait. You see, you yourself are familiar with such a situation where simply this hospital, perhaps you should then end it and then send the prisoners to other hospital institutions, because this prison hospital in Zagreb is really in such a state that it cannot provide either minimal or basic assistance that prisoners need and is often involved in serious patients. So I think it's fairest then to reduce any costs, to eliminate it and to deploy prisoners to other hospitals if you don't accept this amount. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49823	Who's in? The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 279, MP Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49824	So the proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. It refers to the adaptation of the County Court building in Rijeka. In the past years, of course, there has never been enough to invest in capital facilities, so neither can the judicial ones, especially the judicial ones from the perspective of the Ministry of Justice. However, the situation in these judicial bodies is satisfactory, so that the amendment is not accepted, of course it does not mean that it will not take into account the resolution of those judicial bodies in the coming years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49826	You always say that, always in the years to come, and years to run tirelessly. Time is running, and here's nothing new in the judicial bodies, something capital has not happened except for some funds that has to be used to edit buildings in Selska, but practically capital investments have stalled and really serious reforms without it unfortunately, in the judiciary there can be no voting, but before that, the establishment of quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49827	Let's please determine the quorum. I'm calling on agents who are outside the hall to enter the assembly. Time now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49828	79. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 280th Representativeplatmir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49829	It's unacceptable. In fact, it is a clear interest of every environment to build a new building in which judicial bodies will be placed. However, here the proposed amendment of... This amount is not sufficient to realise the proposed investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Besides, I have to say here that in the future, it doesn't mean that we'll end the judicial bodies... to not get me wrong, in the context of rationalising the network of courts we will see which courts will remain, what kind, which number of courts, which will be their spatial needs, so that, accordingly, the need to build new buildings will be considered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hope with the support of certainly the financial unit of local administration and self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49830	Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49831	So today, the judicial bodies in Koprivnica are operating on five locations of which 2 are leased. And in this way, if, therefore, it were built here it's called this Colloquial Palace of Justice, but you have two letters of intent by local self-government offering project documentation, land and exemption from communal taxes to build and put it all in one place where, within a 5-year period, practically in the amount of the lease, this investment would be annuated in the area of justice. I deeply hope that it will not abolish the courts that are your most pressing in Croatia but that you will work to rationalise courts that are not as up-to-date as the municipal court in Koprivnica and the county court. But I'm asking myself how up-to-date these courts would be if they had adequate conditions and not if they were located in such a large number of locations. And I'm really surprised that there's no money to make justice in Koprivnica. Because the last thing that was done was done during the former municipality, and then the former community built it. So, here, from the state budget, unfortunately for the judicial authorities who, I repeat, are the most arduous bodies in the Republic of Croatia have no money and it makes me deeply saddened. And here it is not the local community's interest for the team but is the interest of the rule of law to ensure adequate conditions for the work of its judges, not that county judges dictate in the premises of municipal judges, that the debate halls are common, etc., etc. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49832	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 281, MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49833	It's unacceptable. It refers to the construction of a municipal court, i.e. works on the construction of a municipal court in Biograd. In fact, as we can see here, there's a lot of need for investment in judicial bodies. They cannot be realised all during one budget but through a series of budgets and will try to secure it in the next budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49834	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49835	Last year, you promised there would be funds to adapt the Municipal Court in Biograd. This looks like everything but a court case, and if we compare how much investment there was in capital facilities in 2003 and 2002 from this last 2 years, then it's a serious problem. That they're not insured funds exactly in, for capital investments in the judiciary. Unfortunately, serious reforms, however technical this may sound, cannot be in the judiciary without capital investment. We all know what state our judicial bodies are in, they're starting to be restored. The buildings began to be adapted, built, but now with this pace the whole process stops. It's something he's seriously worried about. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49836	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 282. Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49837	It is not accepted because the current accommodation of the Municipal Court in Rab meets the needs of that court.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49838	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49839	Thank you very much. The truth is quite the opposite. Namely, the Municipal Court in Rab operates in very inadequate areas. It is, in this area, invested local self-government, so the city of Rab 3 years ago about a million kunas for the most necessary adaptation of space. Because otherwise it's a court, that building in which the court works is a monument of the 1st category. It's the home of Mark Antun Denobinis, one of the greatest certain people who was born in these areas. It was the Archbishop of Split, the primate, the church reformer whom the church's Inquisition had posthumously burned. He was a physicist of the world's voice, certainly not professional, and the rest of the public didn't say the last word. And that building where the court is located is in return. So his successors, or former owners, are looking for her in return, and I'm afraid it might happen that the court simply doesn't have a building in which she will function. These are, these are small funds as initial funds, to produce technical documentation and purchase land, and I think it is high time that the municipal court in Rab began with the level of ministry and government, clearly. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49840	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 283th Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49841	It's unacceptable. It relates to the construction and construction of the building of the municipal court in Pag, for which its recovery was already started, and this year 300 thousand kuna was invested for the recovery and reconstruction of the area where the grantovnica is located. So, yes, the basic needs are now resolved and the 2007 Budget will continue to work on further adaptation of this building.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49842	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49843	Last year you promised to provide funds for the adaptation of the Public Court in Pag, which is even more catastrophic than the Municipal Court in Biograd. Last year's investment, I'm sorry, don't be angry, but the tape tape is stuck to a part there in the garter shop, and it's really sad and sad. Last year you made a firm promise that you would provide more significant resources for the Public Court in Pag, and here we are now getting a promise that it will only be next year. That should be done urgently and I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49844	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 284th Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49845	It's unacceptable. It refers to the County Court in Čakovec, to the adaptation of the building. The issue of accommodation of the otherwise judicial bodies in Čakovec should be resolved in a whole way so that the rights will actually be drawn up this year and the project documentation will then be resolved in the coming year, so that these funds could certainly not be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49846	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49847	So here's the case, like the previous county and municipal courts. So it's about the County Court in Čakovec that needs a building adaptation. Promises have been in place for several years now, but unfortunately this has not been done, even if there is the necessary documentation that has not been entered into this project. I therefore think that it can be entered in view of these conditions or in 2006 to ask for a vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49848	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Representatives Mato Gavran and Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49849	It's unacceptable. The question of the municipal court in Slavonski Brod for the adaptation of the building is a matter that needs to be addressed and negotiations are already under way, but in negotiations with representatives of the town of Slavonski Brod, the Ministry of Justice also discussed and agreed that this year we are going through the rights to produce project documentation, and then to start construction in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49850	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49851	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, I have different information. In fact, during a cabinet session held on September 22nd in Slavonski Brod, many things have been promised to be done in Slavonski Brod, that the government will not only come with a bunch of promises, and among other things it has been promised to get rid of the Municipal Court in Slavonski Brod and build a single floor on an existing facility, close one part of the unused open part below the floor, but build an access ramp for disabled people. Why? Well, because in the building where the court is now operating, the Commercial and Criminal Court, the Municipal State Attorney's Office, and apparently there is insufficient room for everyone, and the economic situation and the increased number of inhabitants simply condition both increased work and this court. Not only are shifts involved, but the urgency of this court is more than under the authority of the questionnaire. It is true that project documentation and donations for ongoing operations are planned for next year, but in order to start and complete the reconstruction of this floor in 2007. As far as we saw in the budget projection in 2007 alone, you planned 2 million and 800,000 kunas, which is not enough for rough construction works, and where for everything else. I appeal once again by respecting all this that I have spoken of and what is certain I am also very well-known to you to help this court also work in more optimal conditions, on the other hand, that citizens have better quality services. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49852	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 286 MPs Mato Gavran and Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49853	The 286th amendment refers to the County Court in Slavonski Brod. Last year's final purchase of the building solved the issue of accommodation of this court, so one investment capitalically in solving the issue, the state of the court building is such that it meets the basic needs of the court... surgery on his adaptation. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]] Of course it should have been implemented, because as part of other priorities, and this is shown by the amendment it is not necessary at this time and it cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49854	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49855	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I haven't heard a single explanation of the marble. If you can repeat at least the necessary explanation why you do not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49856	I said yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49857	It's the colleagues, the colleagues aren't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49858	Here, I'll try to speak louder. So, I said that this amendment was not accepted by the government because the purchase of the building finally solved the issue of accommodation of the County Court in Slavonski Brod, so this was one of the capital investments that were realised and where the accommodation issue was resolved. This building, in its present state, is such that the court can function and perform its duty. Of course we do not claim and we can never argue that further investment in adaptation is not needed, but in relation to all other priorities for which there is never enough funding in the budget, these amendments show, at this point the amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49859	Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49860	Thank you very much for the further clarification, now I've heard. ... I know the condition of that building well, and I'll say... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]] colleagues that the building that the ministry purchased last year was built almost 55 years ago and it is necessary to reconstruct, re-recover and adapt, and it is primarily necessary to rebuild the roof, reconstruct and adapt the entire area to the needs of the court, we all swear in the need of disabled people, there is a wooden ramp over which it is very dangerous to walk to us healthy people, and where disabled people need to build a decent ramp for disabled people. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]] There is also a need to build a space for temporary detention of suspects and for investigative prisons and for the needs of the Brod-Posavina County police administration. Finally, gas should also be introduced because of energy that is the most economical, the most profitable and ultimately the most radical, etc. It is also necessary to increase the number of employees, I simply cannot understand that the County Court has no need for you to find its place in the budget for the next year, respecting the fact that your ministry is indeed all with 2 billion kuna if I am not mistaken in the overall budget. I once again ask that because of all this, that it wouldn't happen if the judges were oxidized in a closed space, to support this amendment, otherwise... Some other means of emergency recovery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49861	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 287th Amendment of MP Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49862	It's unacceptable. It should always, never enough vehicles in the judicial bodies and the prison system and they should be renewed, but last year in the budget it was secured... where new vehicles have been purchased both for judicial authorities and for the prison system, so they are not provided until this year and there is no need to actually provide additional funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49863	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49864	This amount is minimal in order to at least continue that vehicle renewal project which was achieved in 2003 when the estimated funds amounting to 8 million kuna and where it was purchased for the first time after 12 years of the 90th vehicle. What you were talking about, I wouldn't have mentioned it at all, but when a vehicle was purchased for the ministry, I'm not saying it wasn't necessary, because I was driving myself in a car that was decomposed, but I just think that the ministry should serve its users first and first of all the judicial bodies must be calmed down, especially if we seriously want judicial reform. Therefore, what was purchased for the purposes of the ministry, and even the Supreme Court, was somewhat needed by that vehicle, but the lower-level judicial body, which is really on the ground to be close to the citizens, so as to get out on the ground, to see, to see, to see, that the daily need of judges is not guaranteed, and the kuna is here for another, third year. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49865	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 288th also since MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49866	It's unacceptable. Namely, for the professional training of employees in the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, an amount of £200,000 has been secured. That amount in its total is sufficient. Why? Because not only is this amount intended for the professional training of these employees, but they will be educated and trained not only from this position but also from the funds provided for by the judicial academy through the projects for professional... professional development of judicial staff. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49867	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49868	The funds can also be provided at the education center or the judicial academy as you prefer to call it even though it is still far from any academy. However, it is USCOD that we need these funds because we see constantly in the media when it comes to their needs and the lack of exactly special experts, so not only the people of the judicial profession but those of the necessary experts, especially the financial professions without which they cannot function effectively, and if the government's serious programme is that it is just going to turn to this problem to combat corruption and organised crime, it is really unsertainable to leave this amount of 200 thousand kuna, because the one that is proposed by 600 thousand is indeed still at the level of symbolism, away from the real needs, but I think that something more serious could only be done with this amount. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49869	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. 289. also MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49870	The government does not accept this amendment with a similar explanation as for the previous amendment. Namely, for the analytical tracking system... the criminality in this position is provided with means which should be satisfactory if other positions are taken into account, especially from other projects, because technical assistance is provided through these projects and we are responsible for also using and calculating these funds in the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49871	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49872	I can't be provided for these needs on some other items. It's really throwing dust in your eyes. You see, according to the USKOK Act, a special department is currently provided for by the Department of Analytical Monitoring of Organized Crime. He's a conjecture of precisely the purpose of a single struggle, an organized fight against crime. Unless the funds are provided there, criminals are spending more resources organised than the state predicted for an analytical criminal monitoring system. Just in order for the state to know how to fight it, big funds must be provided there. And I'm just going to tell you that there's a USCOD right here for the purposes of presentation, and I also don't think that there's a large amount because they're really and there's a modest, secure amount of 10 thousand kuna and for analytical monitoring of crime because that's the only way we can say it makes sense to fight and in which direction we go, which means to use. Well, it's got to be the brain of that Uskok and ultimately the entire state apparatus in the fight against organised crime. Therefore, this amount of 15 thousand kuna is at the level of the national team. Please vote because this proposed amount is not too large either.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49873	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Thank you, Secretary of State. We're going to the Development and Employment Fund. Minister Ivan Shuker. Amendment of 290th Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49874	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The government does not accept the amendment because the funds in this position are intended to subsidise the interest rate of 1.95 percentage points and given the programme and we all believe that these funds will be sufficient to subsidise the interest rate. So these million and 500 thousand kunas you predicted were meant to subsidize the interest rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49875	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49876	We will, within the framework of the Sigma Development Agency, Sisak, which we established in the course of this year two months ago certainly ensure the functioning of the guarantee fund and there is a great interest of banks to move towards the establishment of such a fund. The model is made, recognized, etc. Anyway, it's about one of the most important projects. The town of Sisak had 37,000 employees for 88 years. Now he's 12.5. Mr. Minister, without the help of the state, there is no way that the city will rise in economic terms then and in each other, and this has been an attempt to show good faith with these million kunas by the state to intervene and that this development agency that needs to promote the development opportunities of the city of Sisak to ensure itself. If this is possible from another position, I do not insist on it from another budget item. But it seemed to me that exactly the Development and Employment Fund is the right place to address this. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49877	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fund for Regional Development, Amendment 291.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49878	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Mr. Koracevic has submitted eight amendments, but they all have one deficiency and that is not to say concrete projects. According to the Rules of Procedure and way of working of the Regional Development Fund, local self-government is running projects towards the county, then the county is running for a concrete project towards the Regional Development Fund, so that the same explanation can give you for all eight amendments. We simply cannot accept the amendment because no concrete project has been run. So, advice to local self-government units, advise to the county, the county is running projects towards the Regional Development Fund. The Regional Development Fund has come up with a financial plan to determine which county has the funds available in 2006. And the Regional Development Fund has launched a tender these days that allows units of local self-government across the county to run for these projects. So the same answer to all eight amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49879	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49880	Thank you very much. In an explanation, namely the Varazdin County... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49881	A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49882	Varazdin County and all local administration units in Varazdin County have come up with spatial plans and these spatial plans provide for business zones. All these amendments are linked exclusively to the co-financing of business zones. Given the explanation you gave and opened the contest, I withdraw that and all the other eight amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49883	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49884	Did I understand that they were all withdrawn?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49886	Thank you very much. And amendment 300, MP Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49887	The government doesn't accept. We find it difficult to say that the planned funds are sufficient but, as part of the financial opportunities and financial plan, the Regional Development Fund envisaged in 2006 for this purpose 5 million kuna. And that's why we can't accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49888	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49889	Well, for reasons I didn't mention. We'd like to train as soon as possible before the eight identified zones. Now we have one where there is already a defined and clearly expressed interest in a potential investor. We've got to get that area ready. The city of Sisak invests its 9 million kuna by giving up investment in infrastructure in some other parts of the city, which is also too much needed. The amendment is here if possible from the State budget to get kuna more truly for the development projects that are already there, which are indicated. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49890	Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Attorney General's office, Amendment 301. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49891	The government does not accept for the reason why wage increases are foreseen here for regular work, and since such a request for an increase in the number of employees has not been received from the Office of the Ombudsman, and wage increases may go in line with the increase in the salaries of other budgetary users. So the government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49892	The vote. Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Croatian Mine Action Centre. Amendment 302. Representatives Mato Arlović, Ljubica Brdarić and Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49893	The government, unfortunately, cannot accept this amendment, is aware of the fact that Croatia has been polluted with mines this year by an increase of over 10%. So one of the budget, the user who's got more. However, the needs of providing these funds are far greater and I really regret to say this, so we cannot accept this amendment but with these funds from the budget I think we should all try to get other models of demining. So here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49894	Vice-President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49895	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I remember discussing the amendments when we were making the budget for this year 2005. At that time, we had a similar amendment to the demining, and then, if you remember at that session, we also had a debate on amendments and additions to the VAT Act where we proposed that at least VAT be abolished for demining in order to free up more demining funds. At that time, Mr. Minister said that from other means and other legal bases, we would find the possibility of such funds being provided and supplied. Unfortunately, we have not been able to provide them, and you know for yourself that 0sječko-Baranja County and Vukovar-Srijem County is the area that is most polluted naturally by mines along our Posavlje, along with Lika, Banija and of course the Dalmatian hinterland. There's a big problem with mine. Not only are they jeopardizing the lives of humans and animals but they are, above all, making it impossible for natural resources, agricultural areas, forests, pastures to bring and bring purpose to establish a particular activity that enables new values to be created and that enables the growth and development of these areas to be accelerated. And I agree with you that the problem with this Budget is that we cannot find adequate resources but I am sure that through tax incentives and among other things that... /The speaker has been excluded./... that we do not pay 22% to demining additional funds would ensure and in such a situation surely these 171 million would, and 550 000 would remain entirely 171 million, but if it does not remain so, if it is reduced by 22%, what it wants to be since the demining of the tax on additional value and demining must be paid then it is a very, very serious problem for all of us, the whole social community and in this respect I insist that we vote on this amendment. And I join the appeal that all of us with our work and humanitarian work and in any other way try to find opportunities to secure donations and increase these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49896	Please, who's in favour of that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 303rd Alenka Kosha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49897	Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49898	She's gone. We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 304th Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49899	Just another explanation as far as VAT release is concerned. I think I'd just like to warn you of an SAA signed and adopted a few years ago where it's clearly defined as to the zero VAT rate. Therefore, at the moment Croatia is harmonising its legislation with the European Union and the signed SAA is practically preventing us from doing so. So it's just a supplement to that argument that I said along with this first amendment because you know well that in the SAA, the objection is among other things [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49900	Please, please, please. An additional explanation shall be given on my amendment
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49901	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49902	About which it has already been voted About demining. [[Intruder: No, Amendment]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49903	It's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49904	No, no. Mr. Vidović
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49905	It's okay, it's okay. I heard the Ministers, you shouldn't have come back. Don't come back early.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49906	Please, you've returned to the mine-mining amendment. I'm just asking to correct the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49907	So a completely identical amendment... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49908	Okay, but you can't go back. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49909	Please, there is a single act of the European Community which, among other things, speaks about tax policy and says that countries that had the opportunity to introduce between steps and zero rates in their tax system before introducing a value tax. I can keep it depending on my opportunities and my laws, and in such a situation, it is not impossible for us to prescribe it by law. This is no longer impossible in a period of time, a transitional period until we become a full member of the European Union and in this context I am only correcting this allegation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49910	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49911	I didn't ask in this way to secure additional demining funds. However, I believe that this may be a more appropriate way because no European country, the European Union country, when it introduced VAT, had a mine problem, we do. Definitely and responsibly, Croatia cannot count on any donations. This story is definitely behind us unless we make sure that we demining Croatia will not be demined. It's our generation's obligation to do it. I propose not 100 million here as my predecessor, although it is too little if we want to keep any dynamics from happening in 100 years, and so I suggest that at least for these 12 million kunas, this demining position is increased so that money can be secured from the Treasury because it is indeed a very important, important project. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49912	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2006. Amendment 1st MP Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49913	This amendment cannot be accepted by the Government for formal reasons because the financial plan of the Croatian highways is a separate financial document, is not an integral document of the State budget. The financial plan, Croatian highways have their own income, and here it is proposed to reduce funds from the position of the State budget and thus increase funds at the individual position of the Croatian roads. So it is impossible to reduce and increase two financial plans because if we reduce the financial plan of the State budget then we must change the State budget completely to change, then you must also have the revenue side of the Croatian Roads Financial Plan. So the amendment proposal for each other is incomplete. Then you had to change the income side of the Croatian Roads and then it could be a match. But this is the difference between income and expenditure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49914	Representative Davorko Vidović [[Intruder: So I suggest you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49915	In every amendment, so I understand what the minister says and I will withdraw the amendment in that sense. However, I draw attention to one of the most important projects for the City of Sisak infrastructure in the next period. This is about whether we want it from the position of the Croatian roads, highways or in this case from the state budget it is now a second question. In any case, if you wish to witness an honest intention to build a highway then there is no reason, Sisak – Zagreb, or Zagreb – Sisak, there is no reason not to start immediately with the project of building a connection because this road solves other issues. But I withdraw for these reasons you said the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49916	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. The second amendment of MP Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49917	It's the same technical lack.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49918	For the same reason, I am withdrawing even though it is the most important bridge that would at the moment bring Sisak to a town of 4 kilometers away from the center, it is now 10 kilometers away. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49919	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. The third amendment of MP Zvonimir Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49920	The government cannot accept because the government adopted a public road construction and maintenance programme for 2005. - 2008. The development of county and local roads was defined among others, and therefore, the construction plan from 2005 to 2008 envisions the financing of county road administrations in 2006 with a total of 240 million kuna. A plus this should be noted that county road administrations have their own sources of financing, and co-financing from Croatian roads is only one of the sources of funding. So it's not the only source. And if they accepted this amendment, then the government would have to change the programme of building the Croatian roads it adopted. So again one document that has been drawn from the context and is changing the document already adopted. Therefore, we cannot accept it for technical reasons, and with this reason that the income of the county roads is only one of the revenues, because, with the adoption of this amendment, you should propose to amend the construction plan, and the construction plan is not the subject of this plenary session, therefore, it is not subject to the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49921	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49922	First of all, it is about the income of the county roads and the total income. Do you need to hear from the Ministers? So it is that the total income of the county roads and Croatian roads is the 0.60 from the price of gasoline. And now Croatian roads increase their share from year to year, and the county roads that are equally defined in the plan of building and maintaining public roads in the Republic of Croatia are defined what standard of maintenance of county roads will be. In this way, the government says that the county roads will not be maintained in the 2005 standard because it is impossible to maintain roads both in 2006 and in 2007 and 2008. And this is very incorrect towards the county roads, because if the total income is then the total income should be equal to the growth and income of the county roads and income of the Croatian roads. I just want to mention here that this applies to all the county roads in the Republic of Croatia, that the county roads are about 20 thousand kilometers away, and that the state roads are about 5 thousand kilometers away. However, funds are such that they are 4 times more separated for state roads than for county roads. Therefore, we can say if this amendment is not accepted that the standards of the reflection of the county roads will be reduced, that we still have, unfortunately, county roads that are not paved and this will all result in us driving worse and worse roads, and since the Secretary of State from the Ministry of the Interior has come, that means that we will have more accidents on the county roads. I'm asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49923	Please, who's in favor of that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Minister. Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're going to vote on the State Budget Proposal. Please engage to determine the quorum. Please quorum. Order! 98 has a representative and a representative in the hall. I am voting on the proposal for a state budget. Please, let's get on with it. Please engage who you're not. We can vote. The result? I note that with 83 votes for and 24 against the adoption of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] In accordance with Article 204. I am voting on the next Decision to give consent to the 2006 Financial Plan of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that the decision was made by 79 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 21 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49935	Mr. President, the government is working on a strategy of course and will deliver it to the Croatian Parliament when it is finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-22-0.u49936	We have to put it to a vote, because the government can't vouch for a deadline. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 27 for, 8 abstentions, 68 against, the proposal failed.
