ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39769	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law on Civil Servants, a law which is, in the opinion of the holder of its construction and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a solid legal basis for the further process of modernising official legislation, thereby in turn, in the indirect and reform or modernisation of the Croatian state administration as part of the wider modernisation of the Croatian public administration. This law was made under the CARDS project in 2001, so its creation and its basic settings have been discussed with experts from the European Commission, the European Union for the last two or three years. This is his final, but not the end in that part of the modernisation of the state administration, because he is just beginning the process, or the CARDS 2003 project with a small delay, but it is still continuing and will cover a time period of several years to so on. The functional decentralisation of the state administration with a whole package of laws, which will then be followed by amendments to the State Administration System Act and a series of government laws, thus the official legislation in the central area, means that the state administration will be rounded up and that first part of the process of reforming the Croatian public administration will be in one hand normally completed. The way of work applied to the drafting of this law is to use the systematiced experience that the Croatian state administration has in the past 15 years and in the application of general but also special legislation, and you know that besides this law there is a Law on civil servants and tenants that has been in place so far with various innovations and changes. There are also a number of laws governing special parts of the central state administration, such as foreign affairs, police, etc. Based on this experience and on the basis of good practice of the European Union, the European Commission and its experts would not dare say European standards, but in any case confirmed solutions in some legal systems, European legal systems have come to this final proposal that is before you today. He has a different legislative approach and a different legislative approach than has been used so far in our practice as agreed with experts. The legislative technique applied is such that the law defines only the principles of the basic solution, the fundamental solutions and the rest of the regulation is left to sublegal implementing acts and some other legal regulations in this case, the Law on civil servants’ salaries and thus the package of official legislation is rounded up. It is clear that the quality of this law and all of this modernization, that is, this whole legislative procedure and sublaws will be seen best at the time this part of the sublegal acts is finished, it is a whole dozen sublegal acts which then make up this package of official legislation and whose quality will also be very important for the very appearance and application of this law itself. Such a legislative approach, this approach to the legal text also met with the approval of but also with harsh criticism. They will likely be related today to the regulation of official legislation, official rights, obligations, responsibilities. But we believe that it will become more frequent in our legislation, that this will achieve an elasticity in regulating things that are not necessarily always regulated by law, but that will strengthen the part that we have so far seemed to be... 15 so it can be said that for many years, Croatian official legislation is a fundamental problem in it, and probably not only in it, and it is only a discrepancy between real and prescribed. Therefore, the responsibility for applying will not only be on the legislator but the responsibility will, for example, be the responsibility of the legislator. to be on this government, on the next government, ultimately and on civil servants, which I think is, that it is not a crucial quality, i.e. a legal hierarchy of regulations, but rather a crucial application of it. In this sense, it is normal to see certain shortcomings if this responsibility is not at an appropriate level and thus practically a law that can remain a dead letter on paper again or a dead letter on... Which we hope really won't happen. [[You don't understand.]] What is the basis of this legal proposal in our video of how it worked, the legal effects produced by the past law, i.e. the law now in force, is several situations that are not only legal in nature but are also real in nature because they simply show that in the system of state administration and in the official system some institutes simply do not function or function with significant anomalies. The first of these is the procedure of admission to the state service. The procedure for admission to the state service is uneven, the criteria are unclear, it is uneven in its application. The various authorities employ officials in various ways and there is a need to make a minimum standardisation in quality, but with respect to specificities, which means that, for example, in the system of state administration, that one part of the procedure relating to general administrative knowledge and competences will be standardised, and each state body, for example the External Affairs Service, will develop its specific tests and methods of testing, whether the candidate is also a candidate for the state service and makes the right choice. All of this will not go away and cannot be applied without a certain degree of supervision. Therefore, this supervision is given in order to fully achieve this standardisation. The supervision shall be given to the newly established Central State Authority for Administration, which, by modelling for, with less or more modifications, shall, by modelling European solutions, standardise that practice on behalf of the Government throughout the country. What the other objection was, and these are our objections, but also our colleagues' objections, is that the way in which the officials' service and schedules were accepted was largely formalised formalist without examining the actual abilities, skills and relied on those formal criteria, criteria of professional training and the dominant criteria of professional training and the achievement of the work experience. It is the second part that will, another significant objection to the current solution. The third is bad or it may be too difficult to say, but in any case not a good classification system of jobs, it is too hard, it is too hard and it does not allow for the promotion of officials by its real abilities and it cements one official career in the house, figuratively speaking, in a house where it sometimes began its official work, i.e. working in the state service, which is not modern tendencies in the state or general public administration. What is important from the position of protecting the rights of officers in the system is that there is no second degree in deciding on their rights under violations of the rights of civil servants, but has been practically left both first-degree and second-degree resolution in the authority's own head of state. There is surrendering, I will say a little later that proposes improvements, but in any case these are one significant shortcomings in the current system. And what seems important to me from the position of a civil servant is insufficient, vague, inconsistencies and on average, in 15 recent years, the separation of political from the administrative aspect of leadership in the state administration, in the bodies of the state administration. This is what in the career sense, in the management sense and in the official sense quite, I would say, and most burdens this system of state administration and mainly its central part. These are these objections, a few solutions that would make this new law and how it would try to overcome and what is actually the content of this legal text. First of all, the rights and obligations of civil servants are regulated, as well as our solutions and some European practice of the rights and obligations of the tenants are left to a greater extent to the general rules on labour. It's a trend we've already followed in the old law, now we're just continuing it. Otherwise, the Law is not a revolutionary law and does not offer a large newspaper in the system, but where it offers them, it offers them to me a significant improvement. What has been seen in, and what I just said as drawbacks are being removed, they are most important in the personal dimension of the service of foreign affairs as well as in the management, or management dimension. In that part, they form or are proposed, and it enables the formation of management units. For managing human potentials, human resources in all state bodies according to certain criteria in order to obtain one systematicised and continuous, systematic reception monitoring, personnel development and staff education in the state administration. Because the whole system's point is on this very personal aspect, and that's why there's central surveillance and central surveillance here, I'd say coordination and monitoring through this Central Government Office of State Administration. The third part that you're bound to all that is, I'm going back to what was a lack, and that's the admission to the state service. The reception is made possible through, as so far, through the contest. There is no or at least this Law does not know the exceptions that have significantly burdened, especially the official legislation in a series of our services. Think of internal affairs, foreign affairs and other bodies. We think that the exceptions, that time and time is sufficient and that there are enough legal mechanisms and that the availability of the service under equal conditions is possible. It's a central solution that I think might be worth pointing out. The tender is therefore a tender that, but also the possibility of flexibility within the service in such a way as to enable, through an internal tender, one breaking of these 15, 20-year-old homes, that is, the promotion and career of officials to compete internally and promote and advance within the framework of their own or external affairs or general administrations or any other body where I consider that they could also contribute to their professional environments. So hopefully, in the implementation of this regulation, and especially that practice will affirm a good, good solution for officials, that there is an extended state administration in which there are no sharp specializations except really in those areas where specialization must be particularly highlighted. But the ability of a civil servant to act today at the Ministry of European Integration, tomorrow at the Ministry of Agriculture in his international sector, and thus to use those human potentials in the best possible way. Of course it's not all about this Law, but it is about its implementation, it is about the concept of modernization. I wouldn't always dare, and I don't want to talk about reforming the state administration. In another, and that, it may come from, from the position of civil servants, to the key, this is from the position of citizens is important because it allows service, the availability of service from the position of employees. What is important is the system of progress and what is today motivated and what all research has shown for the past 20 years, the point of today when the state administration is quite underpaid, with all the shortcomings attributed to it I must say yes, and it seems to me that the Croatian State Administration in one segment has been very good and very well these 15 years have solved the complex tasks that have been set before it. But the promotion system, or progress system, is one that can motivate young people most to stay in the state administration because the fluctuation of quality frame is too big and the solution to such a situation is not available for replacements in this sense. Progress is based on the permanent formation of people in the ministry. If we form people for service through university studies where Croatia does not lag behind in many areas in the world, then we must continue to form people in the service, which means permanent education as one assumption of the advancement of people in the service. This is shown as a good solution, it is shown in those systems that I have been monitoring, which so far has been systems of foreign affairs or general administration, that such vision, under quotes, has been very good and motivated and especially for young experts. Therefore, at the stage of the implementation of the CARDS 2001 and the Centre for the Training of Civil Servants was established and it will start in September with its general education programmes and with specific programmes, i.e. specialist training programmes in the system. This will not ignore the special parts of the Police Academy, the Military Academy and the diplomatic and ine training centres and training staff, but will be complemented in this way. Simply, none of this little subsystem can work unless this administrative base is well set up for it. And new solutions that also seem to me to be good at the aspect of everything that is being discussed in the country of Croatia today are also quite quality solutions or at least a step in the current solutions in the mechanisms of resolving conflict of the interests of officials. It has tried to protect officials from being in an illegal position, in an unprofessional position, and ultimately to an unfavourable position in terms of promotion if they oppose the one who is in charge and draws on themselves some kind of anger. In addition, it seems good to point out that the control of the efficiency of work that is from the point of view of citizens and the state administration is and everything is going towards the transformation of the state administration really from the central state administration from the system of government to the public service system, however it may have seemed in some segments the hard-line resolutions of the state administration and those of classics that it is impossible it is a simple trend which is unconstitutional in that part of the control of the efficiency of work through the interview, monitoring the situation of the senior official and the one which is now, according to professional criteria, placed at the highest office, is very, very good at work. It is permanent and continuous in principle control with the participation of the official himself is much better than the hierarchical, strict division that then leads to those anomalies that we now have in the system. What we kept... The solution has been retained. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They kept it a good practice, however it seems to someone else it didn't, but it did. Good practice of official courts, the practice of official courts has been harmonised and the practice of protecting the rights of officials has been harmonised. It may sometimes seem that solutions are too mild but in any case they create one practice that we have assessed to continue and I think that quality is their and guaranteed by the work that is excluded from the classical administrative mechanism and are strengthened by experienced judges. What appears to be a newspaper in this section is that we think it is good, and that is how in this area, the rights and obligations of officials and responsibilities are resolved in administrative acts and we think that the application of the Law on General Administrative Procedure. Otherwise, instead of... the rules and procedures of the Criminal Procedure Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, it is also important for your information to know that this good Croatian law has existed in the area for 40 years, more or less with some innovations going to be a small change. In a year we expect to adjust it to time but in its essential solutions we will not change it or at least we will not give this Parliament important newspapers but in any case good, strengthen the mechanisms of its implementation. And the last thing I repeat about this whole reform, or modernisation, is that the basic assumption of the implementation of this law or an important prerequisite for depolitisation of the Croatian state administration to the greatest extent possible by lowering the level of the scale of political decision-making to what level, trust to quality officials in the management function, is the assumption that they too are involved in the transformation, the transformation of the system in which they operate. No action and state officials with their... Practically political power cannot implement one quality reform or modernisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that part, we also foresaw these jobs of the secretary, assistant minister, head of the government's office, deputy and assistant in central offices and state administration organisations as jobs of executive officials. Text improved. I've been answering for him for the last month, but I'm fully responsible. Improved by the numerous observations made on the committees, the Legislative Committee and the other committees that discussed it. It has been improved by its own amendments, and we think it can withstand criticism about the concept, and as far as nomotechnical improvements are concerned, it is always possible to do this and always keep in mind and bear in mind that we have practically applied a technique that may cause fear of excessive government and state bodies to regulate matter by regulations or regulations, but there is also a quality test by the Croatian state of administration. And here's the conclusion that I wouldn't be long, so then I'll leave it to you for discussion, and that doesn't seem necessary to me, that we've been constantly spending 15 years reforming the state administration with big strategies, with documents that, unfortunately, don't see the light of day. Such a good document was also made in 2001 and part of this document is in this legal text, but discussions about some such as yesterday's GSV depth and dynamics of change are in principle between the two gaps, between the two poles. You must affirm quality, and this is the task of this law, try to affirm quality, on the other hand, and protect some of the rights of civil servants they have under the legislation and collective agreement and to which they are firmly defended in the debates at GSV. We were yesterday, I saw in the remarks of one committee that we didn't get and that there wasn't an GSV that wasn't obvious. The GSV has been shown to be positive about this bill. The law represents only one stage in the modernisation process started in 2001 and the modernisation of the Croatian state administration will certainly take a few more years because here it seems that the lightly promised speed would not bring any big plus. What makes two important characteristics for him and why I would ask you to support him is the tendency, the tendency to professionalise the service, the state service and the effort to depolite it to the greatest extent possible. Its responsibility, for the implementation of this law, would not remain that way for the implementation of the concept of modernisation, would not only remain on the political elites and the Croatian parliament, but also on civil servants who, to a good extent, possess quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39770	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, President Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39771	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrades and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Secretary of State! The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 37th session held on 29 June 2005 discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on Civil Servants submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee has discussed this law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The debate noted that the solutions set out in the final draft law contribute to the depoliticalisation and professionalisation of civil servants as well as the reduction of the potential for corruption. However, the Committee considers that it should be possible to settle certain issues of the activities of civil servants in judicial bodies, professional services of the Croatian Parliament, professional services of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia with special laws respecting their specificities under the provisions laid down in Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the Committee proposed that the transitional provisions prescribe that this law applies to the advances of those civil servants to the adoption of specific laws. The debate also expressed the view that certain provisions of the final draft law are not in line with the Law on the System of State Administration and the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. This is what I propose to the Proposer, in accordance with the above remarks, to lay down amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law. After the debate, the Committee voted in favour of 7 votes in favour of, 1 vote against the adoption of the Law on civil servants, with the Committee member Dragutin Lesar giving an opinion pursuant to Article 51. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, holding that the argument of the final draft law does not contain information on the compliance of the social partners on the Economic and Social Council on the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39772	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39773	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! There was actually a very important law in front of us which is an expression of the legislative drive to try to create assumptions, legal assumptions for reforming the state administration. For that very reason, however, he is extremely important, and he needs special attention. The State Secretary himself said that he may be in the public and also in the Parliament present fear that the government and state bodies will get too much authority to handle certain issues by regulations when they are, it is this Law. I wouldn't come from that question if it was fear or not? First, I'd like to start with whether it's constitutionally-legal. First. And secondly, whether this is useful given the fact that the government is wasting too much time dealing with itself or with the state administration rather than with all other economic and ine policy affairs that the government needs to achieve in its programmes. And it's unnecessary. Another thing is when it is necessary and when it is an integral part of the policy related to reform, for example, the state administration. What's this about? I would like to remind myself that, in addition to the division and division of the authorities referred to in Article 4 there is an Article 116 which speaks of the establishment and business of the state administration and the way they are carried out being governed by the law. Similarly, when it comes to civil servants in paragraph 3, it is said that the law and other regulations regulate the status of both civil servants and the working legal status of subsistence. In the light of this Article 116, allow us, without delay, to show that, in relation to the transitional provisions referred to in Article 145, 146, all of these regulations can be adopted by the Government and the Heads of the Central Authority of the State? Or it's a job that needs to be left to the Law on the System of State Administration, and then the Law on State officials and tenants. Second. This Law speaks a lot about civil servants and that is fine, however, the Law does not regulate the working and legal status of subsistence workers at all. And the question is, what about the constitutional obligation? In that part, therefore, this proposal is completely incomplete. Thirdly, we would like to warn but not only from the constitutional and legal aspect, but from, in terms of harmonisation of this Act, with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The Law on the System of State Administration is mentioned here by the President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, however, the Law on State officials should also be mentioned. I think it is finally quite clear that the issue of the rights of national minorities is not a political issue, but that it is a legal, economic and any other issue. After all, nothing in these laws is given to national minorities but to legalize what national minorities at this civilizational level belong to. But if we are going from this point of view and we have received a good constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, then the question arises why this Law does not regulate questions when proportionately in accordance with the Constitutional Law of Article 22, if I remember well and Article 8 of the national minority has the right to a proportionate representation in the executive bodies of the state authority and, of course, in the state administration. It's completely missed. This may be regulated by the State Administration System Act but what we, in particular, want to draw attention from the SDP, is that this is, in our opinion, a completely unacceptable way of how the conduct and the overall situation is taking place because, in fact, this Law prescribes, among other things, that, in Article 147, a regulation on the internal organisation of state bodies will be adopted within 6 months with provisions and compliance with its compliance with this Act. These internal body regulations are in line with the State Administration System Act, because it is prescribed that they must be harmonised in such a way and under the Constitution it must be in the State Administration System Act, not in this Act. But in fact, here it is open that regulations will, in accordance with this Act, open up a procedure that the future law on the system of state administration will be brought into line with the Law on Officials, which is a complete inversion and replacement of the thesis, which is completely wrong and should not happen. Because it will then not create a system of state administration, a reform of state administration that should be in the role of achieving a constitutional and rule of law project in the country, but will actually be set up a project aimed at reforming the administration in the interests of civil servants, not of state services as a special activity that should enable the realisation of the general and common interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The fifth thing we want to warn you is that the law did not respect the constitutional provision on the division of power. It is impossible simply to put state administration in the same basket and then the professional services of the Government, the Parliament, the Constitutional Court, the judiciary, the attorney general, the state audits, and so on and so on because essentially these affairs differ terribly. Then, in education, education, training, professional experiences, and so on, and so forth, the position and place and role of these people differ. And of course, in particular, the question that is coming back to the beginning opens again, and can the Government even regulate those areas that are now said to be governed by regulations? So then we come to an absurd situation, for example in the transitional and final provisions, it is said in Article 151(2): People found in paragraph 1, on positions referred to in paragraph 1 and among others in paragraph 1 is the Deputy Secretary of State and now, Secretary of Parliament, that I do not list everything, that I do not read everything. He says, "If the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not re-named again, it will decide on their discharge of duties." So that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can resolve the Deputy State Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. Either let's say the Deputy Secretary of the Constitutional Court or, I mean, those are the things that really led to this, this shows up to absurdity. It is simply necessary to make a solution that must be referred to that these services should be separated from the Law on State Servants and, of course, from the Law on the System of State Administration and special legislation should be regulated and these issues should finally be settled and other matters taken into account in relation to the classical state administration, the Government, the Constitutional Court, the judiciary in quite another, administrative and other affairs of the judicial administration are quite different matters and cannot be. In this context, I have proposed some amendments that could allow for a transitional period. Of course here you are, what does that mean? This means that this Law should say that, temporarily, this Law applies to these civil services, but until new laws are passed. And at the same time, the government should conclude that, I don't know, within 90 days, 90 days of approach to make, make these new laws. But allow a few important individual remarks for us. I'll pick some myself. First, Article 149 states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, therefore, go from the transitional and final provisions, not from the beginning. It stipulates that negotiations will begin with trade unions about civil servants and so on. It's about harmonising a collective contract. How is it even possible to discuss a collective contract if the elements, jobs, the list of training jobs, the evaluation of jobs, are not known? It is not clear because Article 145 states that within 6 months of this regulation, the Government will not have worked out this Law, but the regulations are actually an important matter for the lives of civil servants to be regulated by the Government rather than by the law, not by the Parliament. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to run negotiations without them knowing. So it is a completely non-compliant provision and in such a situation it is quite clearly impossible to maintain such a deadline within 6 months of the entry into force of this. The same thing is also the case with Article 146 where the Head of the Central Authority of the State Administration will, no later than six months before the entry into force of this law, adopt a Regulation. Now, which regulates unique standards and criteria for determining the name and description of jobs, and how if the Government has not adopted all these regulations within six months before that. Therefore, the same deadline has been set by the Government and the Head of the Central Authority of the State. It's impossible, because he has to actually comply not only with the law but with these regulations this rule. The same situation is also the case in Article 147, which says that within 6 months, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt a regulation on the internal organisation of state bodies. Careful, the Constitution says the internal structure is governed by a law that will comply with this law. So, actually, which so far has been in line with the State Administration System Act. Thus, neither these deadlines can be maintained nor the content can be maintained, for it is a change that is so serious that it is totally unacceptable. Of course, it is totally unacceptable to make a transitional provision regarding the change in the status of certain civil servants, especially with regard to officials in the professional services of the Assembly and not to talk about directors of state administration organisations etc. etc. which actually come from the assumption that they will be resolved if they are not re-appointed. This is a direct interference of the government in the work of the legislative and judicial authorities, and in such a situation it certainly cannot be accepted. Let us also warn of Article 142, for example, which says that administrative oversight of the application of this law is based on the central authority of the state administration responsible for official relations. And who's going to conduct administrative oversight for the implementation of this law in the central body of the state administration that, as a matter of fact, is the state administration. Who will oversee the implementation of this law of government, or of you who are now here on behalf of the Government? You should be the government or I don't know who. Let's see. Therefore, it is obvious that it remains unfulfilled, and this is about the very, very important powers that the central government has in such a situation. The truth of will needs to be further resolved. We would also like to remind ourselves of a few more examples. I will skip some things, which suggest that one good idea with a lot of quality solutions that are present in this law and which should be supported is not yet good enough for the law to be passed. We think that it should be further completed and trained not only for professional services that I spoke about earlier, but also for example on the position of officials themselves. For example, Article 80 states that in paragraph 4 an official who has been temporarily transferred to another State body is exercising all the rights of public service in the state body from which he has been transferred. And why can't what he's moved to, if it's more favourable for him? A similar situation is also similar in Article 80 when it is referred to work outside the state service, the government will say by regulation, the closer it regulates the government by a regulation of its rights. Why doesn't he have the right to choose where he's more comfortable and of course why he shouldn't be, his right to his consent. Then, the official cannot be moved without his consent if he is more than 20 years old and that is quite fine at first sight. However, we would like to remind ourselves of European experiences where the term, or 15-year term, is generally used, and in this respect should be considered whether we should stay for 15 years or this deadline that is being prepared here for 20 years. It is particularly interesting that this intermediary referred to in Article 71 who is to participate in an attempt to settle and intervene would be compensated by the Head of the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for official relations. And what about when the other side is the central body of the state administration. Now imagine an intermediary should intervene in a conflict situation between a central authority and another government body, which will also happen, and this one has been giving him compensation. Of course, it's a question of conflict of interest and of relationship of interest. A similar situation or situation exists in Article 62 where, among other things, the basis of the Treaty on the Functioning can be entrusted to certain business providers of professional services, etc. When, under what conditions and how? This is a place where very much manipulation can be done and it can actually enable different businesses outside the state administration on the one hand, and on the other hand it can be harmful to the state administration itself and in such a situation should be prescribed when such transactions can be entrusted with the Treaty on the Functioning of others to carry out them and that they can be resolved, of course, and that law should lay down the conditions. It cannot be at the good will of the head of the authority, or the body of the state administration. In Article 60, it is totally unacceptable that, in any case, after six months, a professional examination should be terminated. We believe that this period must be extended during the duration of the stay and during maternity leave and it is impossible to accept that we have six plus six months, for example, leave, and in exceptional circumstances at the request of the parent he can also be extended without remuneration, but that his working relationship is abolished because he has not passed the professional exam. Well, for God's sake, let's at least respect the matter of time and sickness. Another person can be on sick leave because he has been really sick for a long time, and he cannot be on sick leave unless he is sick. So you can't tell him now you haven't passed your exam in six months, professionally, your work relationship stops, and he's still on sick leave. Now there's a question of the conflict of this law with the Labour Act, is it even possible to quit then, given that a worker while he's ill could not get fired? A similar situation in Article 56 says that the trial work here is going to the benefit of officials for six months. The question arises whether it is possible for the test work to be carried out in a quality manner within six months for extremely complex tasks and tasks of persons employed in the state service with high expertise and expertise, or whether a period of one year should be established there. This classification is particularly interesting in Article 4(4), which is related to the deadlines or calendar year and plans which should, for example, be the medium-term plan within two years, etc. This is not a common practice and we underline this article even if you allow President Article 40 is the question to which extent this body actually knows the tasks that the Government needs to arrange for the Assembly and all professional services, because it seems to me that this body simply does not have that knowledge and experience that it can do so at all, and let alone the systematic legal aspect has no additional power to regulate it. Therefore, with all these remarks, we will support the law, but we believe that on the basis of these remarks, the Proposer should make amendments, propose them, and that before voting on the law we have these amendments, and only then could we vote. Otherwise, they would refrain from voting unless the amendments correct this otherwise good proposal referred to in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39774	Thank you very much. HDZ Club. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39775	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Secretary of State. This is one really important law and it's good that it goes into regular procedure. It means that it is not an emergency procedure, because there have already been certain remarks already made in the first reading, and that is one correct, good and professional approach in the adoption of such laws. In general, what could be said about this law is that it regulates working legal relations, admission to the state service, promotion, basic frameworks, classifications, in one way where the basic requirement that goes through the whole law, expertise and quality, and that is what is really one thread of leadership in this law, because it is seen in the state service and in further progress, the basic condition that will be respected will be purely professional. He's an expert at the state administration. What does she bring us? It will bring us a better quality and better way of working the state administration. This means that our citizens will certainly be better able to exercise their rights and satisfy their interests in the administrative process in front of our state bodies. The law introduces certain newspapers that we support. This is about this middleman. This is about the Committee on State Services. Because, of course, the public service, the apparatus is a large body full of civil servants, there are many tenants and there are certainly certain conflicts and certain disputes in the protection of their rights. As a result, municipal courts are, the Administrative Court is burdened with a number of cases, and here these institutions that are being introduced here we support these solutions and we believe that really in this way part of these cases can be resolved in these pre-trial proceedings or through Commissioners, mediators or through the Committee on State Service. This will indeed contribute to a better protection, one of the greater security of our civil servants. The law significantly improves the regulation that is now in place and there is no doubt that if certain suggestions came from the committee are accepted, I think this is a very decent and good suggestion from the Constitution Committee which says that certain issues of civil servants in the professional services of the Assembly, in the professional services of the courts, the Ombudsman may have to be resolved in a different way, because it is not disputed that the accounting affairs are equal in the court, that they are equal in the Assembly and equal in the ministries. However, there is a certain number of jobs where really jobs are specific. Let's say you have officers in court who do the work, who conduct the executive procedure, and there really is a series of specificities that should be arranged perhaps in a more detailed way than is governed by this law. Therefore, our suggestion is that in the transitional provisions, it would be good to put this law into force for all officials, however, that it is possible for the special laws to open such an opportunity to provide specific laws for this category and for this type of civil servants to handle certain issues and otherwise than they are governed by these. What will bring us this law actually in life is what interests us most, of course, our citizens, our people. He will bring us that tomorrow we will receive the best, the most qualitative, the most professional, and that all these public tenders that will go that the only criterion will be expertise, that we will have one depolitisation of the state administration, and tomorrow it will mean that anyone who comes into a particular state body to know that his case, that his request will be solved by professional qualified people who, in order to get such a job, will have to really and the probation work that is very well regulated here by this bill. Of course, this law gives a certain global basis, it gives one general foundation, and as we can see, there are a lot of sublegal acts that the government must adopt under this law. It is very important to bring a good classification of jobs, and in this classification it must be the basis for this work to be evenly distributed by state bodies. Because today there are jobs where people really have little to do, and there are those jobs where people are overloaded, overworked. This burden of obligation needs to be even better, even better developed. And what I've actually said quite often and in my first reading, in this job classification we have to take care of both these coefficients and wages, because those people who are really burdened, who need them most adequately for the job and reward them. Because what's been going on backwards for 10 years, I don't know, it's a drain of professional, good personnel from the state administration. That means our fact that is present in the present, and we have to reward a high-quality employee, because otherwise, this little staff we have, and it's going to run away from us, it's going to go off to private firms, it's going to go to banks, where they actually have two or three jobs where they have bigger salaries for the same jobs. It's something we can't allow. Another thing is the introduction of a central system of data, one informing our state administration, that's what the government already is and started with that stop shop about the procedure of the judiciary of the establishment of companies and it's a very good idea that has experienced its realisation and needs to be upgraded, it needs to be further improved, because it's something that really is the future. When it comes to a certain state body with a certain requirement, it means that there is no walking citizen to bring one certificate and the other to the third to the fourth rather than that our civil servant has a nice open computer and that there is everything in it that he needs to solve a file, it actually guarantees a quick resolution of those files. Also, what I have already said in the report on the work of the Ombudsman, I think that this central state office that this law gives the position it needs is one central position in the system of state administration, which will lead from one professional aspect to one staff management for almost all of our state bodies. This is one guideline in this administrative procedure is that all state bodies use that casator's authority to resolve complaints. This is what the courts in the court proceedings do not have, when the appeal comes, that case in court goes immediately to a higher court. However, our civil servant, when he receives a certain appeal and sees the case-law already established, has authority and resolves it himself, means that this case does not travel to the second-degree body, does not travel at the end of the Administrative Court, and in this way we will, in fact, be quite certain and disburse the court, and our people will satisfy their rights and interests more quickly in the administrative procedure. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this law. This is one quality law. A significantly better regulation than that which has so far and with certain improvements, certain amendments and these suggestions that have come from the Constitution Committee, we think that this is a very good law which, in practice, when all regulations and other sublegal acts are adopted on the basis of it, could enable us to get one professional state administration with whose work we will all be satisfied with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39776	Thank you very much. The HNS and PGS club is a respected representative of Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39777	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, in the second reading procedure, came to us with a law of great importance and with extremely good intensities. Law intensities according to the motionors are to depolitize the system, professionalise the system and raise the quality of the system. All three intensities of course we all support, of course that's what we expect from the state administration. However, the way it was done and what is specifically proposed in certain legal provisions is not always in line with those intensities. Sometimes the expression can be said conservatively, sometimes even strangely, and the text of the law shows expressions: subordination, authority and similar expressions that could be replaced by conceptually different expressions that would reflect, better reflect relations within the system of state administration. It is a regulation that is of paramount importance for the Republic of Croatia not only for thousands of people working in this system, which is prescribed by this law by rules of play, rules of work, rules of conduct and everything they can and must not do but also for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are the most expected of this segment of the country. They expect efficiency, they expect justice, they expect speed and they expect efficiency. The question is whether this legal text can guarantee all of this. On the Legislative Committee, we discussed quite extensively the text of this Law, and one of the proposals was that this second reading was treated as first reading, i.e., that the Law should go into third reading in order to make a large number of remarks on the Committee orally, and something in writing was given in order to be incorporated into the text of the Law. It was in the very title of the Law that governmental deputies were lost. The law is called the Law on civil servants, and the previous regulation was called the Law on civil servants and tenants. The state tenants are in there in a few articles mentioned, but only the authority to mention and in fact all the regulations, all the rules of conduct prescribed by this Law, are somehow given the impression that they are not concerned. So, what does it matter to them, anyway? Where are they? I would try to illustrate all this through a few examples from the very text of the law. Declarationability was brought to a high level in the text of the Law. There are a lot of nice words, nice phrases that can mean something in practice, but not necessarily, so Articles 4 and 5 talk about civil servants acting on the basis of the Law. For God's sake, that's why we'd treat each other. Well, not based on your own findings, not on the orders of the boss or anything else? One thing that has been resolved differently in the existing legislation is the fact that the salaries and other material rights of civil servants and subsistence are now found in the legislation and are regulated in what manner by law. In this regard, it is well-known that the salaries and other material rights of civil servants in Article 10 will be governed by a special law. We fabricate laws in large quantities, I'm afraid this is the way we actually go through a binge. I don't see any reason why that part of the operation of a state-owned apparatus wouldn't be arranged by this law? It is well resolved in article 13, I think, in the first discussion of the disabling of the political action of civil servants. State officials under this regulation have the right to act politically as they think and to estimate that they will benefit from it. But what it will look like in practice and what it looks like in practice is still something different. Articles 17 and 18 discuss the duty of rejecting the gifts offered and offering gifts to other civil servants, therefore, of bribery simply. To do some kind of job, to get some kind of favor. On the one hand, civil servants are forbidden to receive any gift, candy, flowers, a bottle of drinks, and the like of which has somehow become a folk custom. On the other hand, the Law requires a civil servant not to offer any gift to another civil servant. I think it's a much better solution in the case of a state official. The gift level is set at several hundred kunas and that's what, let's say, legally, and everything else is illegal. Everything else is giving, or taking bribes. And he's being treated by other regulations entirely. I don't think there's really a place for that to happen here. Declarationability is well seen in Article 23(1), where it is said that a civil servant is required to come to work on time and stay at work until the end of working hours. Well, I don't see any reason why the law should prescribe that a man who gets paid should earn that salary at least by being in the workplace. All right, he does this and he gets a bigger one, he gets a lower salary, but the fact that someone's at work is the consequence of being employed in that workplace. I don't see places like that in the law. Article 27 examines the duty to reject illegal, immoral orders, a warrant against the rules of the profession and the ethical code. The intensity is, of course, good and a civil servant should be protected in a situation where his manager gives him such a warrant. I think the way it's prescribed here is simply impossible. The whole thing could be simplified and reduced to a few sentences that would speak more clearly of the same goal. A similar situation is discussed in Articles 32 and 33 on the practical conflict of the interests of a civil servant. Article 32 refers to the prohibition of the opening of crafts or the establishment of a legal person. Therefore, a civil servant must not open a craft or set up a company in the field of his work. Can you buy it? It doesn't say here. Doesn't it say he can't buy it? Can I get her a present? Can she inherit it? The formulation, the intensity is good, the formulation is bad. Article 33 discusses the work in fusa. Therefore, on work outside of working hours elsewhere in a similar job description and this intention would be made much simpler to formulate by banning man’s activities in the state service in any other form. A possible conflict of interest by a state official under this text of the Law is required to report when it appears, but is obliged to report before being employed. So when you apply for a job in the state service a man is obliged to say, but be careful, I'm here in conflict of interest. So what does that mean? That means he's not gonna get that job, I guess. So, that kind of regulation of conflict of interest, I think it's simply inconclusive. Article 35 refers to participation in the work of companies or other legal entities. State officials, of course, cannot be in the supervisory boards of companies operating in the business, which is somehow within the scope of the work of that civil servant. However, civil servants are perfectly normal, and this is an established practice, and I think good practice is also found on boards or supervisory boards of companies owned by the state. I suppose this will happen in the future, and I see no reason why the state would not, through its official, protect its own interests in its own company. As the text of the article is formulated here, it seems to me that it will be impossible in the future. One of the things that this law regulates and regulates well is how to hire civil servants. Public competition, through qualifications, through some test, a test of proclivity, a test of ability and the like. However, there is another instrument in this law called making officials available. So when a clerk doesn't know the size of a job is down, changes, etc. The official finds himself at his disposal the state pays him while he's at his disposal. In some ways, the deadline is cancelled, so within the next few months the state pays it, the government has it but in the department that speaks about how to fill jobs there is no provision for the job to be filled in and the official available. I think that would simply be rational and that would completely cover the law's intensity. The trainees, as they are already called, are called trainees in this law, in law they are treated as persons on probation. Training internship isn't a test run. Training is learning. I think those two things should be made up. There is a person who has already passed a traineeship and now here shows what he knows and on the training course there is a person who learns to work. I think it could and should be regulated differently in law. I'd like to mention, my time is coming up, just one more fact. The law establishes a committee of 11 professional members who need to care for the rights of staff policy in the state service. Is it really necessary for it to be 11 professional members? Is it really necessary for all 11 members to be sitting and solving individual issues? I'm not quite sure. And yet in the transitional and final provisions in the last article of the law. It is determined how the law enters into force and which provisions are now in place and which subsequently. The whole thing should be set the other way around, the formulation's a little clumsy. All in all, it seems to me that the intensities of this law are good and the HNS Club will support such intensities of the law, will support the way of resolution, provided that certain solutions which are unskilled and which damage these intensities are corrected by amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39778	Thank you very much. One notice. The chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media Mrs. Zeljka Antunović scheduled the 17th session of the committee today at 12 o'clock in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic. Deputy Secretary of State Zoran Pichuljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39779	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just one small comment on these comments and comments from colleagues Vuljanić, representative Vuljanić. In a few of the things Mr Vuljanic mentioned, the government is going with its own amendment. This is related to the training course, with regard to availability, with regard to the Committee on State Service and some other solutions that seem to us that small repairs can get a good effect and nomotechnically adjust. Some of the things we think are well regulated we're not going to fix and that's about conflict of interest. I think quality standards are that sometimes you don't have to go to the same solutions as the Law on Officials because they're very similar in terms. Objection to the declaration of principle in some general writing in the legislative technique, principles must be put forward and developed through legislative and sublegal provisions. In that part, I think they're well worked out. As far as employees' salaries are concerned, they have to be regulated somewhere. It would be very difficult for such a legislative approach to regulate it by this law. It'll be regulated by a special law. Very nice suggestions about subordinates and superiors we'll discuss and see, most of these remarks we'll absolutely carefully examine now these two days, we'll definitely go somewhere with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39780	Thank you very much. Club of HSLS, LS, DC-respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39781	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my dear! Let me present the opinion of the HSLS, DC and LS Club. We believe that this is one of the most important legal projects that goes into our parliamentary procedure this year for the simple reason that this law will affect tens of thousands of people who work today in state bodies that we can call career officials, career employees whose meaning in our opinion is extremely important because they take a crucial place in the state apparatus. In addition to civil servants, this law also covers thousands of persons carrying out furniture operations in public authorities. The fact that so far the 2001 Law on civil servants has significantly worsened the legal, material and social status of civil servants in our opinion. However, when we were doing a survey with people who work, who are civil servants then they told us that even the previous laws were not much better and that only in fact this last law of 2001 was in some way a flow of "i". I think we should have this political courage to say that the government in which I was part, represented part of that coalition government was not quite the happiest and that it did a very bad job because the deterioration of civil servants literally killed the entire state service that we can say that today is quite apathetic, trom, slow, unmotivated for any kind of shift. In our opinion, this condition must be interrupted. State officials need to regain their integrity and well-deserved dignity and must be motivated, rewarded, given fair and effective advancement and improvement. On the other hand, the State Service must also be disbursed from those people who cannot follow the requirements of the State Service independently of the reasons for the non-tracement. Now the fundamental question is whether this law enables these goals to be achieved. How when you read it then the first thing that enters your eyes is a large number of legal norms that remain at the level of principle and declaration. The proposed law sought to regulate the so-called so-called law. a system based on merits in the service as well as a whole of other important issues that should contribute to the modernisation of official legislation. But did that really happen? In our opinion, this law is specific because it contains very few legal provisions that can be applied. We can say that, that we've got a whole series of very interesting ideas, the thesis that's been put up like this. Thesis for thinking, but they are almost unusable in use. It can be said that almost no procedure relating to the position, rights, obligations or responsibilities of a civil servant, starting from admission to the state service to its termination, cannot be implemented directly, directly, through the application of this Act. The law is, in the opinion of the HSLS Club, DCLS in, in itself, inapplicable and non-injurious, non-implementable. Because its implementation is necessarily requiring the adoption of implementing rules, rules for its enforcement that will then actually apply, not the Law itself. In most cases, these implementing rules are government regulations. It is almost possible to state the position, rights, obligations and responsibilities of civil servants not to be governed by the law of the Croatian Parliament but to the regulations of the executive authority or government. A few examples of the fact that this Law leaves the Government of Croatia to regulate its regulations. Work at a distance and work with incomplete, incomplete working hours. Bringing an ethical code. Procedure and method of tendering and implementing a public tender, internal advertising for admission to the state service. Procedure, method and content of the national expert examination. The establishment and mode of operation of the Committee on State Service. Development of jobs within the job category of state officials, senior civil servants and lower civil servants. Competing officers to work outside the state service. Ways and conditions of progress in the state service. Forms, modes and conditions of education of civil servants. It's a job classification and a replacement's salary. Content and manner of handling of personal eyewitnesses and central regulations of officials and subsistence. In addition to those Regulations, this Act also authorises the current State Secretary of State of the Central Government to adopt several regulations. For example, the Regulation on uniform standards and criteria for determining the name and description of jobs in the State Service. It can be said that all powers concerning civil servants and deputies are in the hands of the Government or the Central State Administration Office. In this way, any autonomy in deciding on a professional service that serves the legislative or judicial authority has been completely disabled, and we are all well aware of the constitutional, constitutionally established trodioba of the legislative, executive and judicial authority. Of course, each of these three segments of the government has its specifics in the work that it is necessary to appreciate if the effective work of civil servants and tenants working for it is to be achieved. Also in the very name of the law, state deputies were left out, although some of the provisions apply to them. In the opinion of us from the club it should certainly be as possible, as correctable as possible. But back to this very interesting legislative approach. In our opinion, it is a step away from the traditional way of regulating social relations in the Republic of Croatia where certain issues could only be settled by Parliament's law without leaving them to the executive authority. This primarily concerns those issues relating to the arrangements of procedures as well as those relating to the regulation of the rights of individuals. Here we think of, here we think of civil servants. If this law, excuse me, if this Law can actually be a good incentive to open a serious debate on Parliament's relations, the legislative authorities on the one hand and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or central authorities on the other, in matters of competence for normative regulation, the regulation of social relations in the Republic of Croatia. What was actually done to me here by reading this Law and doing it as a professor of Croatian language is indeed one quite so glaring in, in the idea that the one who writes the law thinks that, that even those who read it all must be actually clear. I must admit that some of the provisions not even after, almost in fact the most tragic thing is that, in fact, for every article you can find an observation and a good part of the articles of you, it actually leaves you in one big doubt what was actually going to be said with it? For example, look only with article 18. He says, "The civil servant has the right to act justly and equally in the management of staff." I must say that, in Croatian, it can be said better, better said and yes, and that I must admit that, indeed, after a multiple reading, I cannot actually conclude what it should mean that the civil servant is entitled to just, equal treatment in the management of staff. Or let's say what that means, which, which is what doing the jobs is meant when it's said, "Beyond the tasks of the job that it's assigned to, which could put it at risk." These are unfortunately such, such very confusing, confusing solutions, there are too many nuances, so we don't think it would be a bad idea to send this into the third, third reading because we're afraid that this kind of inaccuracy, let's say, is, in this... The law didn't define what, like what is meant by the state service? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, according to certain provisions, civil servants perform official duties, and others act only in their duties, and some carry out jobs or even as in Articles 89 and 90. Certain provisions... The law stipulates that civil servants are appointed to positions, and for example, an article mentions a job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The words that have been very confusing to us, which are not very difficult to grasp in terms of the proposed law, for example: the highest authorities, the official relationship, non-financial interest, supervisory function, special solution, permanent employment, job advertising, second place of work, strength of disciplinary measures, functional names. Functional positions, proposing systematic solutions, working of equal value, fair governance. It all looks very understandable to me like this, but when you try to analyze it and Semanticly cover it up then you actually don't see that it doesn't mean absolutely, absolutely nothing or very often it's even in contradiction with, let's say, a noble intensity, the intensity of this law. Then it's very dangerous you know when projects like this are done by the project's expert team "Cards 2001". I do not doubt their good intentions but then it is also shown that some things when they are brought into line with, the regulations of the European Union that, in some ways, our positive legislation is being put to rest and that some legal techniques are being adopted to make regulations and legal language and writing styles that are different from those that we should say the usual solutions that we should, which still need to comply with legal norms. I'm saying that's exactly why we're at the club as I said we'll insist on this third reading. If we do, however, if this Act is passed, then our support will depend on the acceptance of the amendment that the Club will submit to this Act, even though the HSLS Club of DC and LS proposes to the Croatian Assembly to adopt the next conclusion, which is that the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are to make and deliver within 3 months of the Croatian Assembly of the Proposed Law on the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament, because unfortunately the same when, in this case, in some of these solutions, they are, for example, when read Article 2 are then, these services are completely, completely abandoned and we think that they deserve to be properly regulated, but since we do not really think that this Law should be adopted. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39782	Thank you very much. Deputy Secretary of State Zoran Pichuljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39783	Here's just a few clarifications. This law was not written by Kads' team, but written by government experts, and along with suggestions and cooperation from Kads' team. Using these new names or names that are in there, somewhere there's nomotechnical awkwardness perhaps. But they're pretty understandable anyway. But as far as the crucial thing is concerned, I would only say about these under the laws and indeed that remark made by the distinguished representative Kramarić, which is that most of these regulations adopted by the government are procedural in nature ethical, for example the passing of a state expert exam. It is sufficiently settled by this law, and all these procedural norms and now exist in the current legislation. The Ethics Code is a special act. It is not an act which he is worthy of as a law but is not a legal matter and so neither is the only thing that really matters in that part and that gives the government powers and responsibility, and that is the classification of jobs and then comes out of it and the Law on Salaries, and there are those important things that concern the rights of officials, and in that part we will think in the transitional norms we will accept the suggestions of the respected representative Arlovic and solve probably slightly different deadlines. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39784	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39785	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. According to the position of the Croatian Party Club, the right to reform the public administration discussed here by proposing this Bill proposal has implications for society as a whole and for all parts of it. It certainly concerns the general interest of all citizens. That is why, in our court, we should firstly reach a political consensus on the overall direction of reform in a way that the public administration recognises the needs of citizens and opportunities of society. Certainly, without some great rhetoric here at the beginning of the 21st century, at the time of globalisation, integration into European and world flows, Croatia needs a necessarily highly professionalized administration that is primarily a rational, stable and socially responsible public administration, such that it is the true service of society. Croatia is, unfortunately, neither experienced nor is it. The citizens have just considered it alienated formal and corrupt. The media is subject to constant criticism, not to professional and impartial but to intertwined relationships and the exchange of friendly services. It's expensive, people in the administration don't come up with professional criteria and don't advance towards expertise and success. What I have just said is a quote from the publication "The Strategy for Public Administration Reform Croatia in the 21st century" published by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, I didn't do this, these aren't my own flatulence reviews of the HSP Club, they're a quote from a publication made by the government. Furthermore, the "Strategy for the Development of Public Administration" sets out the following characteristics of the Croatian public administration. Low working morality, negative selection of employees, lack of resources and programmes, incompetence to solve problems, pathological processes of increasing the number of employees, degradation of the institution to personal ties, corruption, negative selection, lack of a non-professional top public administration, political and party selection of employees, choice of origin and personal loyalty, existence in some parts of the administration of surplus, and in some parts of the lack of employees. It's facts, not grades, but facts. Such a situation is also confirmed on the website of the Central State Administration Office, where in the survey on how satisfied you are with the work of the state administration, 65% of respondents say extremely negatively. And of course, this proposal for a law on civil servants should be one part, if not the most significant part of the reform of the public administration, which is governed by this opinion and in which relations like this exist, as I mentioned. We at the HSP Club hold that it is exactly the opposite and that this law will in no way move a millimeter towards the positive direction of this assessment. In all the changes so far and in addition to the laws and regulations in the field of state service, the legislator is a rhetoric on the construction of the state, the professionalisation of the administration and the rule of law, and indeed there has been a devolution of institutions, deprofessionalisation by the fall of ethical and professional standards, and the rule of law has become a synonym of state power, not social justice. It is particularly interesting that the reform and through this law is proposed by a person who, during all these negative events in the state and public administration, has constantly had one of the management posts in the body responsible for official relations, and this place is not an interesting place for a management official to expect already it has always been a place of state official with all the rights that arise from this. My guess is that's exactly what it is and the reason or that it's probably the reason he's not here today as the promoter, but there's someone else here. More significant rules on the reform of the state administration are, above all, the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of State Authorities, and this Law on State Servants. The latest changes in the structure and in part of the central authorities of the state administration did not bring a reduction in costs, did not even bring down the number of employees. Only a nominal reduction in the number of ministries and other bodies, but in this area too, we have an unnecessarily large number of unnecessary bodies, especially a variety of agencies, offices, lawyers and the like. But we don't have bodies that modern democratic societies have and must have, and which this society really needs most as different kinds of courts of family, financial or labour disputes courts. And now there has been another draft law before us which, in the court of the HSP Club, represents a step back with a sophistical rhetoric on efficiency, professionalisation of administration, the rule of law, European and world standards, etc. In doing so, the Proposer calls for international acts and foreign experiences and this experience of countries with which Croatia does not have a similar legal structure, such as the United States, Great Britain, Canada, Bulgaria, Poland or Hungary. This, in fact, should leave this list of experiences of other countries to a false impression of approaching modern European reality although this law in its basic settings is not in line with the European legislativa. We assume that this pro-European policy is needed to justify the costs of various domestic, especially foreign consulting services used in the preparation of this law. The basic issues to be addressed by this law are not regulated at all. The most important issues are proposed only in principle provisions which end with so-called reference provisions that these issues will be resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with its regulations, which you keep even 11 listed in this law. So we have the Law on civil servants that doesn't regulate the pay issue of officials, doesn't regulate how to conduct competitions, doesn't regulate types of jobs, doesn't regulate work outside of state service, form, ways and conditions of education, etc. In our view, this law could have only one article, and this article would read: the issues governed by this law will be regulated by the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and nothing, in fact, would essentially change within this law if there were only one article, because anyway all of these things that are vital to the functioning of civil servants are proposed by government regulations. Relieving the rights, obligations and responsibilities of anyone, and in this case, civil servants of some kind of sublegal act is totally inadmissible. The rights, obligations and responsibilities must be prescribed by law. After all, it is one of the basic settings of our Constitution, but also the basic element of every modern rule of law. It's obviously not the case with us. The more Article 4(1) of this proposal explicitly states the rights, obligations and responsibilities of civil servants are governed by law and by the laws adopted. We therefore repeat in the club HSP, rights, obligations and responsibilities cannot and must not be prescribed by sublaws. Introduces so-called. The code of ethics of civil servants. The civil servant is explicitly obliged to comply with the law and regulations, and there is no reason for the government to regulate the issue of conduct, for in our court it is not far from imposing and the rules of speech and opinions that were once considered a verbal delicacy. It is not clear in the draft law that this law refers to. A provision of Article 2(1) following the taxation of the body to which the law applies ends with the words "and in other bodies established for the performance of the state service". Whether it is thought of by some future bodies or already established bodies that are not specifically mentioned. If not indicated, why not specified. The same provision asks about the concept of professional service and office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Whether the term includes commissions, agencies and similar permanent bodies established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There is no reason not to apply to these services, i.e. employees of these bodies differ on any basis from other civil servants. Currently, their salaries and material rights are significantly higher, they have no obligation to hire through a public tender, etc. This law should not apply and should not apply to state auditors in the State Audit Office because in this way, any sense of audit is lost and the State Audit Office should be removed from the political influence of the Executive Authority. It is not possible for a body, therefore, to determine the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the auditors. In other words, the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines the rights, obligations and responsibilities of those who audit them. This is certainly a huge mistake, it needs to be removed and harmonised, not only because of the illogical nature but also because of the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the European Union's rules and has finally submitted and submitted amendments, given that this is a second reading and we will explain them from the aspect of non-compliance with European Union regulations. Furthermore, it is determined by the civil servants that they must be provided with the necessary organisational and technical conditions in which they will be able to carry out tasks in accordance with the principles and standards of work required in the State Service. The development of this provision was to be governed by a sublegal act. What are the standards of work required in the public service? Who wrote those standards? Where are they posted? Or it's some unwritten rules passed on by oral surrender within the state administration. Article 11 states that a civil servant has the right to progress and professional training through education and other ways of training, but is not defined by what criteria. The law introduces a series of provisions that form the basis for discrimination of mobbing and fearing officials, and by their nature they represent tautological provisions or provisions as we call them popularly in the club, for exorcising witches and these are them, the civil servant is forbidden to receive gifts for personal benefit, family benefit, etc. and Article 18, a civil servant shall not offer or offer gifts or other benefits to another civil servant, his or her relative, etc. What does that mean? Those provisions, what do they mean? That he should have received gifts so far, used everything else or that I ask it a very simple question, since these are all criminal acts prescribed by the Penal Code, which this law, like this one, is forbidden to commit crimes in Croatia. Despite the above, there are still a whole series of other provisions that are already at the normative level not in the direction of improving the quality of the state service and in fact establishing a system of government over people, rather than authorities over jobs. If the important jobs were in the law, it would be an emphasis on jobs, not on who the civil servant would talk to, what he would talk about, when he had to be at work, what he would do in the afternoon, what his wife, children, parents, relatives, etc. Government over 25 thousand people employed in the public ministry also means power over their families. In view of their chronic bribery and responsibilities with different banks as well as with all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the basic characteristics of civil servants have emerged, which is the opportunism and service of every government without even the slightest initiative of critical consideration and the desire for changes that would go to the general benefit. It's also developed a kind of form of censorship. That is why the HSP Club is asking that this law be bound to go into third reading, to adopt all objections from clubs and individual debates that will take place during the proposal of this law, otherwise as one serious step backwards, we will be forced to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39786	Thank you. I am reporting that at 11.01 p.m., the time has elapsed for a ten-minute hearing on this agenda point. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39787	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, So sometimes these transitional and final provisions are incomparably more interesting than the opening provisions, general principles. Why? Because it is precisely where it is possible to find the motives of changing existing laws. And I claim that this law adapts itself and its clear personal interests primarily to the secretary of state. It is also clear that through them the existing ruling structure wants to rule even after it clearly loses the elections. I don't think State Secretarys are the alpha and omega of this authority or any authority. But it's undeniable next. You are elected to those places because you are part of the ruling nomenclature, under 2 you are elected by the party in power or you are appointed for an inter-party agreement between the then ruling coalition and 3 if you are a ruling nomenclature then follow well the fate of the party in power as will be followed by let's say by the representatives. But now Mr. Secretary of State who, the note ben, would say the people "who swim" become comfortable. They want to save themselves after reaching the prestigious places. That's not how it works. You, gentlemen of the State Secretary, are the other people of every ministry. So the ministers are number one, you're number two. It is clear to all of us, and especially to you, that these places are primarily due to a party position. Therefore, gentlemen, I repeat, follow well the position of your party. Be, as I said, in the position of counsel. When you lose your mandate, you go to the street, the Employment Service or something like that. Why do I stand for that principle? So that you too may bond with those who have called you. Do not change party colors as fashion trends require you to shake, to work, to have your party win another election, not that now because of your commission those who belong to the losing elections, and you provide yourself with a secure and stable material position. Secondly, the rationalization of the administration, the abolition of the ministry, etc., has turned into a more expensive administration. We have more officials today than we had in late 2003. And that's precisely because of the public secretary's great awakening. Before, for example, the Deputy Minister has always been one or only one, and now the secretary in each ministry has so much that counting them is not simply possible. Finally, MPs who are constantly called in public don't even have a chair, not counting this one in this House. About the phone, the team, not to talk, and every civil servant is in a position I don't know. Every director of a public firm is in a better position than any minister and that, gentlemen, is not right. And not to mention those who run these large public enterprises such as INA, I don't know, I also think Podravka is in dominant state ownership, chronic losers, shipyards or Croatian broadcasters who have higher salaries than the President of the State, the Parliament, etc. Article 151 states that on the day of entry into office of the Government after the first parliamentary elections, the position of the secretary of the ministry, the director and director of the ministry, the Deputy Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, the Deputy Secretary of Government, the Head of the Office of Government, the Deputy State Secretary of the Central State Office, and the Deputy and Assistant Director of the State Administration. They become civil servants' jobs, and so far, ministerial assistant positions have been abolished. In paragraph 2, the terms of the persons found in the position referred to in paragraph 1 and, above all, I am talking about State Secretarys shall continue to carry out the tasks referred to above and shall have the right to pay according to the relevant solutions to the appointment of officials in those posts on the basis of tenders under the provisions of this Act. In paragraph 4, if an official referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article who before his appointment was appointed as a civil servant has the right to schedule without invitation to tender in a State body in which he was in the civil service prior to his appointment to that office. And that is, gentlemen, the essence of this law. Apparently, maybe yesterday or the day before yesterday, you didn't talk to the unions. The same, true, and they're politicians a couple of excellences in this country, but you need to talk to the unions that cover this activity. On the other hand, the constant change, more precisely, is the constant adaptation of the state service structure to any category of people is not a perspective policy. It would be good, then, if someone in this House were to deal with the upstretched, finally, that someone in this House said well that you couldn't bribe the MPs because no one needs him, because he doesn't decide anything. But now civil servants, especially at these levels, have a very powerful position, whether they influence the issue of a building permit, of inspections, of the sale of agricultural land, or I don't know what not. It is also clear that public officials should not be intimidated, but they should also be tolerated, here I agree with this 3rd section of the property card, etc. Here, among other things, is the conflict of interest. In our court, the possibility of performing additional work in Article 33 should be inadmissible. There's obviously someone here again setting up something else with this basic activity. Of course you should pay him on the other hand so he doesn't. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It shall not, therefore, be a member of the Management or Supervisory Board of a company or of another legal person if it is subject to supervision by the body in which he is employed. Within the framework of performance, but in others, so the bodies can. So that should be inadmissible, too, etc. All in all, at this hour we at the IDS Club believe that such a law is unnecessary. It is written to accommodate a category of officials who have now begun to call themselves officials, who would like to maintain their positions by the fall of the authorities who chose them. I mean here, first of all, the secretary of state. On the other hand, we heard just now that the secretary of state has set itself a fundamental goal of this Law or one of the fundamental objectives, and it should be the depolitisation of civil servants. All of us in this country will succeed, but we will depolitize, under quotes, never serve. Every official has become his own party. How many officers so many parties in this country and I don't agree with, say, Mr. Rozic, that they are just as prone to these or those. Every officer is simply a party. And because of this, among other things, Croatia's competitiveness falls, although the point on the other side of competitiveness is primarily in Croatia's salaries, i.e. labour costs that are incomparably higher than in any other country in transition or Eastern Europe, anyway. Clearly, civil servants must not be, though they are today, sufficient for themselves. They must not be, they themselves are untouchable, irreplaceable, but it is interesting this Article 13. If on the one hand you say that one of the fundamental objectives of this Law has to be to depolitize the state service, then Article 13 clearly provides for the right to run for elections, and then it goes well and nothing goes away. Now, gentlemen, that's not exactly moral, but it's being built into this law for the sole purpose of civil servants in order to make it clear, since other people of the ministry, means high-ranking party officials, are also participating in some parliamentary, local, or not knowing which elections. Then, through the possibility that certain businesses are performed by private individuals, and these are the tasks of information, I don't know, administrations, accounting, etc., introduces their own kind, under quotes, privatization of state services. Okay, and so far, a whole series of jobs, for example, some design documentation has been entrusted to private companies or some institutions, but here is the obvious difference. That's where jobs go, so to speak, for good. For a long period of time. So that should be regulated by the deadline and predicts the very precise modality of the termination of these contracts. So far, we've had the possibility of not knowing how to give in to a particular job. However, even today some cities, if I'm not mistaken in Rijeka, have such a structure to collect gas, water, electricity, not power over that lynx apartment, but this is one important difference. What does that mean on the other hand? That means you're losing the safest job in the country. A job in the state service is a job from a job to express myself to retirement and in the rights that are achieved here regardless of the wages to be spoken. It is also clear that there is now that duality between a local official on the one hand and one who works in the state administration, and there is an animosity between these people who work in the same building, which will only take place tomorrow or which will lead to this application of the "privatisation" of the state service. Today you have the paradox on the other hand, let's say that the trade unions in Croatia cover only or almost exclusively large public enterprises, officials, health care, municipal enterprises etc., others rarely join the union. It's a Croatian paradox. This means that workers will also be taken over if they are taken over and that should be regulated very precisely which of their statutes will be in the case of "loser" work. They're losing part of the rights they're experiencing today with acquired Christmases, K15, etc. If we add everything to this and the announced abolition of courts with an earlier reconstruction of the armed forces, the number of employees must fall steadily in the state administration year after year. The only thing we've grown is the increase in the number of State Secretarys, but here I just want to say, somewhere I'm reading, that there's been an announcement of suspension between the rest and the Buzet Municipal Court, and I want to believe that that's not going to happen. Apparently, the Finns told us that in Croatia, and today we have 266 different courts, there should be only 92 in the future and be careful with that. For starters, it would be better to reduce the fees to the notebooks, and we'll talk about that when it comes to the agenda of the Executive Law. This law is precisely because of these moments, it is unacceptable among other things, it is absolutely necessary for officials to regain their dignity, protect their integrity, guarantee their status, pay them back their decent salary. The error was absolutely in 2001 when the former government froze or even reduced the salary in the state service and it should not have happened and it was not acceptable primarily because the whole series of what Mr Kramaric was talking about was being dealt with through regulations which further marginalises this Assembly. Finally, the IDS Club proposes in Article 42 to respect the principle of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and to take care of parity representation in those environments where these ethnic minorities are represented, whether it is about Istria when it comes to the Italian community, whether it is about the Danube when it comes to the Serb community, etc. This is certainly one civilization note of the constitutional principle and no one can question it and the amendments proposed by the SDSS, IDS, etc. I believe that they will be respected if this law does not go into third reading although just the third reading could correct a whole series of illogicalities that MPs have been talking about so far when it comes to the Law on Civil Servants.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39788	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39789	Speaking of article 151 of counterpart Cain, he probably makes a mistake about State Secretarys. Although Article 151 clearly states that these are ministerial assistants. I hope it's an unintentional mistake, Mr. Cain's unintentional confusion, if he had confused these two functions because if it were the state secretaries who would become the force of this law officers, if their position had now been politically concreteized and turned into an official if it were indeed true what Mr. Cain is saying, then it would be totally unacceptable, then it would be terrible. I hope it's a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39790	Thank you. Deputy Secretary of State Zoran Pichuljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39791	Thank you very much. Only the clarification relating to this Article 151. Not one word of this law mentions the secretary of state anywhere. This is the State Officials Act and no State Secretary matter is governed by this law either in transitional or in material provisions and the secretaries of the Ministry are not State Secretarys, nor am I Deputy Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39792	SDSS club respected representative Vojislav Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39793	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Secretary of State! In connection with the law that is before us and as we could hear and see from this law, an equal relationship is being arranged between civil servants and the state as employers. It contains rules governing admission to the state service, means employees, job classification, professional training and training, and promotion in the ministry. These are categories that are very important and important that these places would really be in line with what and what this law weighs. We see that the provisions of this law apply to civil servants in very important bodies of the Republic from the state administration to the judicial authorities, criminal authorities, professional services in the Croatian Parliament, professional services and offices of the Government include professional services of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, professional services of the Ombudsman, Advocate General for Children, Advocates for Gender Equality, State Office for Audit, etc. So, the most important services involved in state administration and these accompanying bodies. The pursuit of this law as we have heard and how we see it is the depolitisation and professionalization of personnel in the state service which is certainly and very urgent and very important to do as soon as possible because the state administration is now standing by its professional composition very questionable without saying bad because it served as a place for the ensuing people who do not meet the needs of that service. In large numbers, civil servants do not have a good relationship with the needs and demands of citizens, so citizens are very often and rightly dissatisfied with how they are treated. Services in these bodies are very slow and without a sense of specific human problems. In short, management is not at the level that the Republic of Croatia needs now. The proposal for a law that is before us is that if we look at it as a whole and as a whole, and there are certainly a lot of good solutions although we have seen in the Club of the SDSS some shortcomings and we have attached an amendment that relates and that I will later elaborate on Article 42. He was also mentioned by the IDS Club, as well as Mr Arlovic as chairman of the Committee. What we consider to be weaknesses that arise from civil servants is so far the performance of public affairs and the overall quality of the state service that is burdened by the numerous weaknesses of individuals doing so. They range from inappropriate relations to citizens to corruption. Depending on the quality of the law, this remains a major social task in the application and implementation of this Law itself. Many individuals in the state administration do not understand their role or do not realize that they are there as a service for citizens to make their rights easier, to fulfill some of their obligations already think that they can run some kind of personal policy. Regardless of the quality solutions this Law offers to us in practice, it certainly takes a lot of strength and will and to get its real application. The article 42, which we believe should be harmonised, must have been related to the service plan. We believe that there will be some problems if this plan is done in the short term, which means that it can only remain on the idea. On the other hand, if the service plan is entirely dependent on the Budget, then it will be very conditional and will be nothing. For these reasons, we have proposed an amendment to this Article 42. We believe that the last meaning of words and points is to determine the fullness of jobs in the state bodies of members of national minorities and the plan is to employ the required number of civil servants, members of national minorities in order to achieve representation in accordance with Article 22(2). Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and Article 8. The law on the system of state administration. In the context of the SDSS Club and in the context of this amendment, we felt that this proposal for a law with this supplement would be improved and in some way strengthened through the possibility of confirming these articles, which were cited in these two laws and we believe that it should be accepted. In Article 84 which speaks of the evaluation of the work and effectiveness of civil servants in the public administration, we believe that there is also a need to take into account the observations and complaints of citizens when the work and evaluation of these civil servants is taken into account. The article 99, which discusses injuries to work, shows that we have a full range of work-related injuries from 1 to 14 or from (a) to (n). We believe that it is necessary to add that an improper attitude towards parties and to show any form of intolerance towards people. That it's supposed to get into a job injury. And in the end, the SDSS Club will support this Act provided that this amendment is accepted which we have delivered in writing. Unless we vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39794	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. A colleague of Ljubica Lalić's on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39795	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So we have before us a second reading of the bill of law, which bears the name of the Law on Civil Servants. Its goal is to reform the state administration. As the state administration has mirrored the state authorities, the aim should be to regulate and organise the state administration so that it is in the service of the citizens, rather than self-sustaining. The dispute, the trom, the massive and the unprofessional administration is the source of the public's indignation. We have heard countless times from this pay phone that Croatia has a massive, inefficient and expensive administration. That she was aware and the previous government proved the fact that, in cooperation with the European Commission in late 2002, she launched the project "Cards 2001". Support for state administration reform." Unfortunately, all that remains is an attempt. The state needs a depolitical, professional, efficient and accessible administration. The ambitions are to make this law so. In principle, looking at it can be regarded as good if those parts that don't belong to it by nature are excluded. The law does not rest on the constitutional trio of authorities or is in line with the Law on State officials. As it is indicated on the committees, we expect the motion to remove the perceived inadmissibility from the amendment. It is commendable that until the second reading, the applicant accepted a whole series of remarks from committees, clubs and MPs, but that is not enough yet, and that is why the bill is not unconditionally acceptable before us. In his explanation, the Proposer says: "The reform of the official system proposed by this Final Bill is designed in a way that the existing system in the management of state service personnel in the Republic of Croatia is in line with the usual international practice and general standards. Well-conceived, but we doubt how much that's possible. Because I quote: "One of the objectives of the reform is the establishment of a system whereby people will be admitted to the state service and deployed to jobs according to the measuring system, which means a system of knowledge, skills and results in the work and expertise acquired by work." It's a finished quote. The system of state administration is not built out of foundation but is being reformed. The system of state, there are jobs and they are employed by employees who are and how are they employed? It would be expected based on knowledge and expertise. But in the explanation of the proposal from the first reading, I quote: "Political positioning in the state service has become a common practice. In addition, the political decisions of the elected civil servants as well as the external candidates set up high administrative positions. The admission to the state service of qualified personnel to high responsibilities also takes place through political decisions." Complete quote. So it's an existing condition. Not by expertise, but by political decision. The problem of unprofessional and incompetent officials will not solve this Law. They are set up and we do not see in the law the mechanisms for removing those already placed just because they are politically similar. Of course there's a possible answer to the fact that there's a strict responsibility. The current Law also knows the strict responsibility for the exercise of official duty. Even under current law, a civil servant is obliged to perform his duties properly, on time, knowingly, professionally, in accordance with the principle of the public, respecting the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia. However, through tight responsibility in the way it works in Croatia, the state administration will not be rid of politically similar and unprofessional officials. Despite the prescribed obligation and despite the prescribed ban, there is both intricacies and unconsciousness, and instead of the principle of public secrecy. We have certain habits, and they are the most difficult to fight. The law itself won't be enough. He's the one to be spent. Implementation requires the will to be implemented, but it also requires people to carry it out. Judging by the fact that there is no will, and when there is no will, there is no man. As long as that is the case, the assessment will be global and the state administration will be assessed as unprofessional, incompetent and corrupt. This global assessment is an injustice to all those professional and conscientious officials who, in secret, have to accept a small salary and, under unsatisfactory conditions, protect the reputation of the state and state government as a whole. They have the right to take down the Stigma but also citizens have the right to a professional and efficient administration. This law does not guarantee that we will reach it. The impression remains that it will freeze the existing situation it has created, according to the proponent, a common practice of political setting up in the state service. The proposer says, this law creates the basis for the separation of political and administrative levels. It is generally good if practice follows the law. It is unusual and inadmissible that the law entitled the Law on civil servants does not fully regulate all relations of that domain. Too much leaves the government to settle its regulations, so the government will regulate the classification of jobs and wages by regulation, while other rights and obligations will be subject to general labour regulations. The procedure and way of calling, the implementation of a public tender, internal advertising shall be governed by the Government's regulation. The procedure, manner and content of the national expert examination shall be governed by the Government Regulation. The reference to work outside the state service is subject to the regulation of the Government. The law lays down the posts of officials in three categories. The development of jobs within each category shall be governed by a government regulation. And so a number of other examples and we now need to pass a law that only gives us a skeleton, and a series of very important things will regulate the government by its regulations. It will decide from admission to the state service to salaries and jobs. Thus, it is difficult to believe that politics will be excluded from admission to service, which means they will not revive the "measure system", which means that there will be no expert and efficient administrations in the future. So, despite numerous improvements compared to first reading, we still do not have a proposal that can be unconditionally supported, and we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party consider it to be the best solution for this proposal to be directed to third reading. Unless the proposal is accepted to go into third reading depending on the will and desire of the applicant to edit all these remarks, then we too will make a decision on how to vote, whether or not to support this proposal. However, such a proposal as it can't get our support now, because this proposal gives as much credibility as the government's pre-election promise to cut down, cheap the state administration, make it efficient, and after coming to power as we know it, the state administration has significantly increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39796	Thank you, dear colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is the esteemed fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39797	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law has several characteristics. One of the more important is his declarationability. He is so a declarative law, more like a single parliamentary declaration than a law. Perhaps the most striking examples are Articles 15 and 16. Article 15, which states that a civil servant is required to carry out his duties under the description of the jobs of the workplace properly, on time, consciously, professionally, etc. And Article 16. that a civil servant is obliged to act in accordance with the principle of legality and protection of public interest and to be prohibited from abuse of powers in the conduct of his duties. Well, abuse of authority is described in the Penal Code, and now as such, it is forbidden to violate a person's criminal law, they have no real place in any regulation, because in any law, we could then prescribe a penal law that is forbidden to do all things. The second essential feature of this legislative proposal is certain cripplingness. Here's an article in 151 that usually solves the issue of assistant minister. I totally agree with that. The assistant minister is one status that would have to be the crown of an official career, the crown. Perhaps you should even allow the minister to choose the assistant ministers, but only from the ranks of the chief, not to bring them outside, especially not on the party key, but from the ranks of the chief. Why? Because the minister would still have to have the freedom to choose his associates, means that the assistant ministers will not be caught there by the letter of this law even though they will be civil servants and thus immeasurable. Maybe I should do that more in order to liberalize, loosen up this rigid provision a little bit. But in principle, I agree that the assistant minister must not be a political function. Politicians are the minister and secretary of state. They leave with politics, everyone else has to stay. Well, why do I say creamy? You say in Article 151. On the day of entry into office of the Government after the first parliamentary elections, the position of the secretaries of the ministries etc. Well, the first parliamentary elections were in Croatia in the 1990s. Well, I guess the first next parliamentary elections or the first parliamentary elections since the entry into force of this law. But certainly in the case of not after the first parliamentary elections because it is unclear what you were actually going to say. Well. Why did you not refer to the procedure in parallel with this law the amendments to the Law on State Officials, where ministerial assistants were listed as state officials. And what will now be the beginning of the next year when this law begins to apply or what will happen after the first parliamentary elections, when both laws are in force. And the Law of Officials, of state officials, where ministerial servants are officials and of this law where they are not officials. How will we know now whether they are officials or not? This could not be resolved by the dear God, if the government did not resolve it, and it had already to refer to the parliamentary procedure the parallel amendments to both laws, align those provisions, and coordinate their entry into force. It's completely unclear why you didn't do it. The second essential feature of this law is to some extent its incompetence. For example, in Article 37, you say that a civil servant must not make decisions, i.e. to participate in decisions affecting financial or other interest, and then under point D. of the company, institution or other legal person in which the civil servant intends to engage. And please, how will you know where the civil servant intends to get a job? How are you going to find out and what if he really intends to get a job somewhere or if his boss thinks he's going to get a job somewhere, and then he's being relieved of his duties, they don't let him make those decisions because he thinks he might get a job there. And besides, where's the provision and what if it's actually employed? If he gets a job, then he's out of this system of officials, then you can't even punish him. What are you going to punish him with? To replace him when he's already found another job and he's already working on another job. It's completely inconclusive, a completely pointless provision that means absolutely nothing, so in the interest of the intellectual value of this law, let's throw it out as excess. The third essential feature of a certain nonlife of this law, I see it in Article 3. Look out, civil servants are also persons who are in government bodies, and now, first of all, you say information jobs. Anyone who's referred to the state administration's problems knows it's a problem with IT. It's impossible to get a high-quality informer to work for you for an official salary then take whatever he can't do, so all this information in the system of the state administration doesn't even work, it's slow. We're not the only country facing this problem. Great Britain, for example. She had to pass a special law and passed a special law where she allowed the authorities of the state administration to make deals with informationists, meaning they were found on the free market and taken for some other money to work for the government. Why? Well, because she had the same problem. No one's going to do quality information work for you for that miserable salary. This is how if you say in law that they must be civil servants, the problem is not that they will not be solved, but it will continue to exist as a problem and it will become insolvent. It's indecisive. If you can get this bar out, you'll allow the possibility if you don't explicitly want to say and allow the ministries and state bodies to make deals with the IT guys. That's the most important thing I think the law suffers from, he has no resolved question of chic state officials and tenants, or should he have. Well, I think you should because that chic is present. What's the law? It has one miserable provision in Article 12 where it is said that a civil servant is guaranteed protection from any unwarranted and unnecessary transfer or distance from work. Please, it's guaranteed! Who guarantees it, as he guarantees it, as he guarantees it. That reminds me of that guarantee card of Prime Minister Sanader. None of the guarantees are met, no one's answering. How can you write that you guarantee someone if you don't tell them what the bail is? Who's bailing? Where does that bail go in the deposit? What's going to happen is how to protect the policy officer, the government, is going to implement the chican. What will be the reference to Article 12? So what kind of protection is he? Not at all. And if there are chicans, there is. Because look, this may be a nicely complex law, beautifully written, but what it's worth is, in the Ministry of Defence and Family, a changed assistant minister for political reasons, I think Radeljic knew because he liked Glavas there. As for this law when it's changed, I think Tulic's name is Chief of Police in Osijek. Also for political reasons. Well, then some Karavidovic, too, for political reasons. So these are all people who were first set up by political will, and then replaced by political will after the political trouble that Branimir Glavas caused in the ruling ones. What's worth this law when in Calmet's ministry, a replacement assistant minister who's been working there for 18 years has progressed from the lowest status to the highest, and the minister tells her, so don't blame me for it's not me, I have to do it, and to her place a man with three years of training is brought in. Three-year-old intern! Apparently by political dictatorship. So what's the point of a law like this when in another ministry it's told the state official that it will advance if, now, it's in this election, if it joins a coalition with the HDZ at local level. Because of the law, Article 13 states that a civil servant has the right to run for state and local elections. It's good to have a right. What's it worth to him if he's running for office and yet don't give God and win his term, and then the minister gives him a run in his career whether or not he's going to make a coalition with the ruling party. Preserves him directly, blackmails him. And where it falls is the protection of that officer against such a willful policy. There's no such thing in the law. Here, please, you have two more days of time, let's make some kind of amendment if it's possible by amendment to make it possible to protect these officers from chic policy, then I'll believe you to depolitize this... Thank you very much. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39798	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Proposer's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39799	Here's just a little clarification about this possible chicane, or its operation through these other parts of the law, not just this declarative norm. Well, there's just been an institute that's going to make this chican, or possibly chican, I don't know how much it's going on, actually manages to prevail. It is a committee for a state service that is independent or, to the greatest extent, it would have to be an independent institute that is both positioning and resolving the rights, obligations and any other violations that would occur in the state service. It's one of the institutes, and there's a good one, but that would be an explanation for this part of the possible chicana that's happening, which could happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39800	Thank you very much to Secretary of State Piculjana. ... Then to the Deputy Secretary of State. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleague Stazić has a correction to an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39801	Thank you very much. About that independent body. What an independent body, the government appoints him, and it will be... Well, the government is a political body. So the fact that this body is independent, as the secretary of state says, and that it will prevent the chicane, it is not independent if it is appointed by the Government, is appointed by the political body. They will name their likeers there who will solve in accordance with their political will, nothing else will happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39802	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's my dear colleague, Neven Mimica. Here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Assembly. Dear Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This final proposal of the Law on civil servants is what I see as a second step towards reform, or to say a little less, the modernisation of the state administration. The first one was taken at the beginning of the government's mandate when the number of ministries, ministers was reduced and this was the first step in any case in a good direction but incomplete in terms of being managed only by arithmetical and staff reasons and not by the concept of a comprehensive reform of the state administration, so after that we didn't know almost a year and a half or more than a year or a half of what should look like or what the state administration would look like at the end of the process. Today we are ahead of the second step of this reform, of the modernisation, and we still don't know what the outcome of the reform itself will be. Step two, the Law on civil servants is a step back in the right direction, a conceptal good for me conceived, but technically poorly executed. In sports, the dictionary of art skating, the artistic impression is good, but the technical performance is not. It's not for a few reasons. In addition to those reasons that are clearly being corrected by the amendments, amendments to the Government have been announced, there are a whole series of amendments to MPs or clubs, but there is another reason why this technical performance is not good, which is the fact that we do not see the whole picture again, that we do not see the whole of the reform, because the only explanation is that this is just one cube in the mosaic, and that the whole series of new laws and government regulations and regulations of the heads of state institutions should be adopted to make the system work. I think it's a shame, that it's a real shame that this modernization, the announced modernization, which as an idea is obviously built into the foundations of this Law and what's good is that it's so embedded. But the Proposer of the Law missed a good opportunity to prove that modernization in proposing this law. He should not have gone with the variant of delivering only this paper, only the final proposal of the Law on State Officials in which matters of general importance are in principle determined for the status of a civil servant in which the generally acceptable and commendable attempt to depolitise, modernise, professionalise the state administration and civil servants is determined. But I'm saying, that's one rock. I think that on this example, this Law should have gone beyond the principle, or simply said parliamentary representatives should not have been brought into a situation to discuss or decide only the principles without knowing how it would be concrete. If there was to be a full picture of the whole reform, then it should have been here. Therefore, if it has not already gone with plans to contribute or parallelly to even send those laws that are announced in this Law, it means with drafts of these laws. If it didn't work out with the plans of those decisions that the government should make here, I think that with at least one broader explanation or one piece of paper, it shouldn't have been again a strategy for reforming the state administration, but one paper that should state the principles and specifics of how the proposer thinks of the following steps. For this reason, he says to parliamentarians, it is difficult for legislators to make reasoned decisions on a stone in a mosaic that can be beautiful blue, but it is very likely to fit the whole picture if it weighs part of other stones of some other color. That's why I say here we should start modernising not only the state administration, but modernising the way parliamentary deputies are facing new legislative proposals. Modernisation in such a way as to parallelly deliver legal proposals in the parliamentary procedure, as well as all sublegal plans stemming from the proposal. So it's obvious that after this final bill, many more steps follow that we don't know what they look like today and that's why we're trying to, I say, make amendments to something. I've submitted the same few amendments. I'm not going to explain them now, but I think at least we have some things to mention here. In fact, it's only one thing I'd start with, the ministerial assistants. This is a good way to propose how to translate that level of officials into civil servants. It's a good way to depolitize that function, but I think at one level the nominal determination of the new calling of assistant ministers has been made a failure. They are now being translated into directors, i.e. ministry directors, and it is claimed to be the practice of a majority or a large number of European countries. I think that practice is different, as I know it, among the 27 countries that have entered or will soon be members of the European Union, most of the countries have our ministerial assistant level at the level of the Director General or Director General. This allows for a different and larger hierarchical range and enables and then greater promotional motives, and then the leaders, the current level of chiefs who in these countries or most countries could actually be equated with the level of directors, or directors, rather than the level of assistant ministers. One category is not or one institution has not found its place in this Act when talking about how to join the state service, which is already a stalking practice sometime since the 98th year to enable scholarships from the state budget, to provide scholarships for post-graduate studies abroad under the obligation of those who finish those studies to employ a certain number of years, 3.5 years in the state service. This way, with the introduction of a general competition obligation as the only condition for employment or the way to hire for public service entry, I simply don't see these people who graduate from the state-sponsored postgraduate study entering the state service. In my opinion, this contest was held at the time when they were selected for scholarships and it would have to be said in this Law that they are received in the state service by the very act of completion of the post-graduate study. Now in the end, I say, in a situation where we don't have a total review and a way of thinking about getting a total of positive results in the reform of the state administration. It seems to me that there are too many amendments that simply deciding on them could fix what is well-conceived, but technically bad. It has already been said that the amendment should, in practice, remove some constitutional inconsistencies of this Law, which is extremely difficult and very difficult to make with the amendments. It seems to me a better solution to go to another reading, in the fall, which would eventually allow the Law to come into effect as is predicted early next year, but would also allow the Proposer to consider everything that is possible for amendments to be resolved, but also what is more conceptually small and more contentive and complex to be done only in the amendment form. If that were not easy, this opinion of the Legislative Committee which has made a whole series of amendments, which is fine, but then presents both principles and individual remarks which are not only editorialal character but which would require a lot to be done. Then he suggests an entirely unusual one, but I am also afraid of an unacceptable conclusion that should empower him to, together with the Proposer, after Parliament adopts the Law to edit the text, that is to say, change what the Parliament has adopted. So we see how complex work is at the conclusion of this project as a whole. I claim that he was made with good intentions, with a good concept, but that he requires a lot more work to get him in line, a lot more work than if the job could be done only by deciding on the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39804	Thank you, dear colleague. A respected colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, is on her way. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Almost every citizen of ours when he has to address any body of the state administration or when that body of the state administration includes him with his own actions has a nightmare. There's a feeling of nausea, a sense of red tape. That bureaucracy does not answer his questions, but rather to say come tomorrow or to interpret them with a whole bunch of laws always the way a citizen gets away and gets rid of him without doing his job. These are the problems faced by an average citizen in an existing legislative framework, but what is saddest and what is our greatest danger, institutional frameworks. Is this Final Proposal of the Civil Service Act giving citizens an answer to this question? Does it respond to the election promise, but not only the ruling ones but everyone who participated in election games at all levels that the administration must serve the citizens? He's not giving an answer. Because the old system was being repaired, something more beautiful was formulating, but there's no answer to that. That's why it took a very different concept to set things up, which is not even normatively easy, and we're not talking about applying that new system. That's why it went through a line of fixed little resistance, to fix something like that so it looks better, but that doesn't make one real policy that can give the expected results. In order for this or, with the final proposal of the Civil Service Act, it is necessary that we have a whole package of amendments and that we can then talk about a substantive reform. to amend the ZUP and the ZUS, so the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Disputes. So, just like that, not only those issues concerning both status and accountability, and the promotion or distance of civil servants, but also, above all, the procedural norms that need to be simplified and accelerated and that nothing has been done for years at all on that plan. Not because they are bad but because they have proved inadequate in the modern world of communication. The government is also constantly announcing the government's electronic government, the fast government fast. So why don't we have it in certain norms that we can communicate in such a way, that it's one of the announcements or the possibility and acceleration of the process. That's all we're talking about, but when we need to do something concrete and even on that most harmless road and the easiest one, and that's this standard, then very cautious and very conservative. So, there's a name being created, a fantasy in a citizen, and nothing really changes. And the law has no reason, because usually opposition is always on its way somewhere to distract the government and to prevent it in its reform procedures. However, we are supporting the government to make it revolutionary, to make a step forward. However, such caution is truly surprising and such an amount of inambitiousness. And for what? So it is obvious that there is no real, either no courage or no serious political will to achieve what is said. The government should be transparent. This should also give an answer to this law, a calculating, predictable, good government which will then, therefore, enable the building of a system that will enable such action in all possible personnel combinations where it does not depend on the kindness or democratic mood of this or that of the leader, but simply that these are rules of conduct for all. However, we do not find such answers here, and that is something exactly what this further step away from the reform of the state administration is expected, and specifically from this law. So here's to this general plan before I say anything in particular, given that it's a final proposal in this law. It's amazing exactly what he's saying and what report has substrated the public to the National Competitiveness Council where it's been said that the quality of public institutions in the last two years of this government has fallen by 10 index points. So, since 67, we've come to 66th place. Compared to the judiciary the same defeat of 9 index points. We do not need to hide that the coalition government in 2000 has taken over power with a resolved state but with weak or no state institutions, that we have faced the need for consolidation and trust of citizens towards state institutions. Something seemed certain, but not enough. But now, instead of stepping out, we don't feel like going forward and it's not just a sense of speech and relevant objective indicators. The announcement, or the achievement of a reduction in the number of ministries, has won one major public impact, but the background is behind it. He's back up again. So, as long as we're talking about modernizing the administration of the bugs, we're back on the service machine. We have again, therefore, with the current situation of the army, the poorly-paid, poorly motivated officials, the number has risen uncontrollably by certain ministries which, on a certain working time, on an indefinite basis, which according to the contract of action. I have not yet received an answer as to the state of the individual ministries, but rather the government's response, which is also worrying about the total number, and we are constantly talking about we need a smaller administration, motivated, better paid. So, it's done again, it's said one thing and done the other. But that's obvious, and then we can't get out of this really difficult situation. The answer, this law should have answered the question of how to reward a good official. Well, we have in the state administration people who work 12 hours with high professional training for over ten years of service for 3.5 thousand kuna. And we've got those with parallel gear the same workplace doesn't do anything. This is where you talked about the good practice of the official court. This is a very bad practice where some ministers reported inspectors, officials who had solved a single case for two years. They got a warning. What kind of motivation is that, then? There's something we need to change. Until we reward people who are in love with their jobs, who are doing their job, who are engines of the whole system and who are pulling so that the whole system doesn't fall apart. The law abounds with good principles, fine principles, but a good law then, in its special part, develops these individual principles to make sense. Nothing, though. The principles remain mere principles and there is no development of their further development. On the trail of what I was saying, how to motivate an officer and how to get rid of those officers that no private employer would ever hold. The answer is not given by this law. If we still have an easy violation of the official duty of that employee who is often late for work, every day comes half an hour or an hour and what kind of message he sends. The head of his body can't do anything. He's getting a slight warning. He can't even be financially punished, which is the best way to discipline him. So he doesn't have that authority either. That simply the head of the body has the authority to cut his salary. So, these injuries should certainly get into major injuries of duty. And what also seems very important to me and what is inadmissible is that we will not have the transparent authority again that the whole series of key issues that decide exactly on progress, about the promotion of civil servants who can count on their good work to advance in the service of what is the whole system and those of Weber's known administrations, so the calculation that and the system, that the system, that the system is worth doing because it sees this possibility of their advancement, now we leave it all to the government. That's inadmissible because it's not on the trail of security. For us in today's situation, these conditions must be transparent and must be contained in this law, not in the Government Regulations. If we keep it to the government, then there's nothing out of the transparency of good government again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39806	Thank you very much, colleague. It's my dear colleague Tomljenović's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39807	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Secretary of State! Well, here. This regulation is certainly one of the essential laws governing the segment of the state administration system, so the official legislation as we had the opportunity to hear it, and precisely because it regulates labour law relations between civil servants on the one hand and the state as employers on the other. Furthermore, no doubt this regulation regulates the uniform rights governing admission into the public service. Next, classification of civil servants' posts, professional training and training of civil servants, promotion in the service, and other issues relevant to the exercise of the rights and obligations of civil servants founded precisely or originating in that work-law relationship. State officials are, and remains in accordance with the legal definition, defined as persons who, as a regular interest in state bodies, carry out the tasks of the department of those bodies established by the Constitution, the law or other sublaws. State officials are the basis of this regulation and persons performing information, general and administrative affairs, planning, material and financial and accounting tasks in government bodies. In the Law itself, we also find a definition or provision of state-owned tenants representing persons working in state-owned bodies on auxiliary technical matters and other tasks whose conduct is necessary for the purpose of the timely and quality conduct of State-level operations. However, the answer to the question to whom all this regulation applies may in practice lead to some confusion or, to some extent, the adoption of new rules in order to resolve the identified issues. On the basis of Article 2 of the proposed Law, this regulation, except for civil servants in state administration bodies, would also refer to civil servants in judicial bodies, criminal authorities, professional services of the Croatian Parliament, professional services in the Offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, professional service of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, professional service of the Police Advocates, State Office for Auditing, Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Not only is the Constitution of the declared principle of government tridivision but also the similar fact of the diversity of state institutions and the specificity of business really need to consider the possibility of regulation, different regulation of labour law and, therefore, in this respect and material relations in accordance with the specific constitutional position of the above-mentioned institutions. This problem can, of course, be addressed by the adoption of specific rules so that possible disputed relations can be best resolved in practice and avoided by all those problems which have already been discussed, which can, of course, be resolved in terms or in an amendment way, in the light of the adoption of this final proposal of the law and normatively resolved. Furthermore, when an analysis is carried out for which or for which reasons the law in question is adopted, which rests on considering the situation found in the State administration system, the conclusion shall be imposed through the following items. First, a really bad classification system of jobs so far that does not allow progress in the state service with too many special job names in certain state bodies based on sublegal, sublegal regulations. Second, the applicable Law, the existing Law, which is in force, does not sufficiently elaborate the procedure of admission to the State service by means of a measuring system which ensures that candidates who have the best predisposition for quality work are admitted to the State's service. Thus, such a system, a system of knowledge, ability, skills, results in work and professional skills acquired by work assessed through mandatory testing. This system is needed in order to exclude political decision-making involvement in state service procedures. If nothing else, the practice has shown that through a political appointment in the state service, it prevents what we like to call it so-called. career system, promotion, advancement and motivation for better and more effective work in the system of state administration. And thirdly, the existing Law is also based on an unstandardised procedure of admission to the state service. Insufficiently designed classification system is based solely on professional preparation. As a special and positive newspaper in this regard and in the reform of the official system, therefore I am talking about Articles 66 and 67, which are found in the establishment of special internal bodies, hence the intermediary in the State Service and the Committee on State Service in order to resolve the disputed relations between subordinated and senior officials and to resolve complaints against solutions from official relations. These bodies are designed as bodies outside the judicial system. Or outside the court system. They are based in terms of the prevention of litigation, however, they do not, of course, exclude the possibility of initiation and litigation, but the complaint to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia is, in view of the proposed system, a final remedy after this time of legal protection. This Act, in the above sense, needs to be analysed in detail through transitional and final provisions, which also provide for deadlines for the adoption of sublaws, regulations. In the first row of the regulation, which will newly regulate the system of state administration or the segment of the system of state administration, but also mention and adopt an ethical code, which will regulate the rules of conduct of civil servants. Furthermore, as regards the application or modification of the status of certain civil servants, Article 151 has already been mentioned and cited. The law which regulates, therefore, the article regulates that, on the day of entry into office of the Government after the first parliamentary elections, these are the following positions: the departure of the secretaries of the ministries, the director of the ministry, the deputy secretary of the Croatian Parliament, the Deputy Secretary of Government, the head of the Office of Government, the Deputy State Secretary of State of the Central State Office and the Deputy and Assistant Director of the State Administration, become the jobs of state officials and the current position of assistants, the ministers are abolished. The persons found in the above positions shall continue to carry out the tasks so far and shall be entitled to pay according to the decisions made so far to appoint officials to those posts on the basis of tenders under the provisions of this Act and, after that, if they are not re-appointed, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will decide on their discharge from office. So, absolutely, this article, or the provision of Article 151, should be interpreted not as we had the opportunity to hear in terms of politicisation but rather of depoliticalisation in that official system or by applying the principle that I mentioned affirming knowledge, expertise and ability, not politically or politically, or politically or politically, or by making a decision to make sure that I say the system or the official system within the system of state administration. And finally, with the full support of this kind, I would refer to those remarks that applied to the principle or generality and generality of the norms, and even to those standards of the introductory part of the Law which are just prescribing the principles are even quoted. Five or six principles, therefore, on which all other specific provisions of this Law are to be laid down as well as the principles laid down in a specific regulation to which they are to be applied in this principle. Just for a short time, such principles or such a way of working out these principles, we find what is logical and necessary in all other regulations in these introductory parts or in the introductory parts of the rules are determined at the principle level in the sense of implementing these principles on the very issue which is subsequently regulated by concrete legal provisions, so that they absolutely cannot accept all those remarks that went in this direction that these provisions are principled, because by nature things are and must be so. And finally here, of course, I absolutely support these remarks proposed text, the final text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39808	Thank you, dear colleague. It's time for a respected colleague, Antunovic. Here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39809	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. It has already been said in this House today that the proposal for this law is an important legal text and I agree with all those who have so determined. Why? Because this law defines the area of creation, I would say the constitution, the functioning of the state administration in the broadest sense of the word, the administration, the state administration, or as often as we speak critically about this state administration, we are talking red tape that is under the grain, under the table of governments and runs this country. This law regulates one activity that depends on many of the positive steps we expect in this country and we in this House, but even more citizens of this country, is expected by both the economy and the economy, which depends on whether the wages in Croatia will grow or fall, whether production will grow, whether competitiveness will rise, rather than decline or stagnate, as is the case today. Namely, every state, and then the state administration has great significance in this context. For this reason, I think it is most important that this law defines precisely what it is, to specify, that the benefits of those who work in the public service can be read from it, but also the shortages that come with work in the state service compared to other professions. This law must make it clear what makes the state service different from the service in any production activity regardless of ownership, especially in the private sector. For this reason, this law must also define some different conditions because of these different obligations, so I would say the rights and responsibilities of civil servants. It is in principle that I of this law, i.e. I think that this law should be well regulated and that I think that to some extent this bill offers. It offers some steps, but also in much of what remains at the level of the declaration, remains declarative and leaves space to be either through specific laws or through sublaws, and what is worst through practice, through different interpretations of such principled provisions in practice something that will not be good and will be unacceptable. Why do I especially mention this last one? Because today we are discussing this one law that should improve the existing situation in this area, which we all know how important it is, and what this debate and the adoption of this law takes place in conditions where we have witnessed for more than a year a conscious and deliberate violation of the existing law in relation to the rights and relations of civil servants. The other day, not recently, I was asking a parliamentary question in this House and that question to the prime minister, and I asked him why he allowed a deliberate and conscious violation of the law in relation to the rights and obligations of civil servants in relation to their deployment and relocation, in relation to their non-compliance with their professional qualities, formal ones, and especially those of the real ones who arrive at work experience. I asked why the Central State Authority, the state office, does not carry out its duty and does not give positive or negative opinions on such solutions, is absolutely obvious, which are passed by the opposite of the law. The answer I received was that I entered a rather dangerous area and that I would have to explain and show or deliver evidence to whom I do not know the Prime Minister or the Central State Office, which I believe was very hypocritical, because I am sure, as I have received a whole series of objections, objections and very reasoned objections from the powerless civil servants, that these same objections were addressed to the Central State Office and to the relevant ministries. There's probably been a lot in the Prime Minister's Office, not to mention how many such lawsuits have gone to the Administrative Court which, amongst other things, make judgments in favour of those whose backs are conducted by politics, and violates the existing law of whatever it is. And that's why I'm actually wondering if we're bringing the law here, and now we're discussing it, and we're looking for better solutions, and then we're going to continue to violate it like the law and the existing law, and then the civil servants will still be victims of this policy or that kind of policy, even though I don't call it politics but politics, lawlessness and disrespect to what we all as politicians swear. That's what I think is key to what I wanted to say and repeat here, and, unfortunately, it's completely, completely true and well-founded. And now allow only a few of my remarks to the very text of the law, that is, its individual provisions. The law defines that salaries of civil servants will be regulated by a special law. I agree that's possible, but I don't think it's practical, and I think it'd be better if it stayed as it was under the law so far, because I don't know what those laws will look like to settle the salaries of civil servants. I also have an objection to an area of conflict of interest. It is really important to establish that there is a possibility of conflict of interest and it is important that the law defines how this conflict of interest in officials should be removed, the risk of conflict of interest removed. But it seems to me that in the Law on Officials, on civil servants, it is much more rigorously defined that area and conflict of interest, and I think that today it is harder to be a civil servant whose family, for example, has some kind of private business or craftsmanship than it is to be a minister. I think the rule of law here is really trying to practice from below, not from above. I think that's a question that I would really like to consider here in the Parliament, if they weren't already colleagues from the government who sent the proposal here. I think the possibility of conflicts of interest and influences that may be negative or corrupt due to conflicts of interest is far greater with state officials, i.e. ministers and other state officials, than with some officials. No one can be an official today if I don't know how to handle it, I guess you should give genealogy, so if someone in his family has some kind of craftsmanship, then he has to make a special declaration, make some kind of special statements, and I don't know what he's doing. I have one very concrete observation regarding Article 48, which is where the conditions for admission into the public service are discussed. It mentions the possibility of foreign citizens or people without citizenship entering the state service, but there is no mention of people with dual citizenship at all. I think dual citizenship is not the same as the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, because with that dual citizenship there is citizenship then with, Croatian citizenship and citizenship in another country. And if the law already regulates this area in the way it regulates it, Croatian citizens, foreign and stateless I think it also needs to regulate the obligations of those who enter the state service and have dual citizenship. In Article 74, the classification of posts shall specify which posts are entered, or there is no distinction in senior and lower civil servants. It's defined as being, I don't know, I didn't take it out, but in any case it's known what the highest ones are, but you don't know what's taller and lower, it's said it'll be defined later. And finally my final remark is on the part relating to the professionalization of today's state officials. I think the way that this is defined is bad, if we want the professionalisation that should be done by this law then I think it should be after this law comes into force, not just after the next parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39810	Thank you very much, colleague Antunović. It's next, dear colleague Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39811	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Secretary of State. So when you say the concept of state administration, what will be the reaction of Croatian citizens? The first reaction will be that they are unsatisfactory, that they believe that the state administration as a general all administrations, so the administrative services were a public service, they became a purpose themselves and that they are not in the role of citizens, so they are not the service of Croatian citizens. Such a reaction is likely, we politicians have, when it means we hear the same notion of state administration immediately dissatisfaction, not doing what should be done. And now it's an interesting thing to think about how civil servants and tenants will react, too, and they are dissatisfied. But they're unhappy because they have low wages, they think they should have better jobs, that their work and effort are not appreciated. So this is really a little interesting not to say paradoxical situation. Everyone will react this way, so nobody's satisfied, everyone's dissatisfied, everyone has their reasons. Let's take a closer look at what these civil servants and tenants are like. You will see that most civil servants and tenants have great grades, because this is best seen in the use of annual vacations, and this is based on collective contract and vacation days. So we come to a new paradoxical situation. And now what's he saying? That if you had an idea you'd have to make an idea, but professionally elaborate the idea and then give politics to turn that idea into a law, but again, that law needs to be returned to the experts in order to put it into action. Because all of this, I'm saying it because of this fact, because so far it's saying that the government will be our own purpose, that it won't be in the position of Croatian citizens as long as the leaders, they mean those who act, manage the administration, they have to know how to do it. If they don't know how to do it, then that Max Webber syndrome is gonna happen that these shadow people are gonna run them, and unfortunately that's what's going on with us. This is evident according to the laws that we receive in the Croatian Parliament through the Government, because there are people who are professional and quality, but they get the impression or those people are doing it on purpose because they are unhappy with their position or obstructive. So one, another variant is dangerous, and that's why I can't agree with so far-said views that we're now doing some important step towards modernising, for a more effective state administration and everything else, so I can say that I think that a better explanation of the deputy secretary of state than what's contained in that law is. If everything you said were really contained in the law, I'd raise two hands at once, at least electronically, but I'd raise two hands if we had a better administration. But unfortunately, that's not the part. This is true of will, this final bill is a better version of that first variant called the State Service Act. I have to admit that it's a better variant but this isn't mature for adoption at this point, and that's why I'm proposing a third reading. I suggest a third reading, because it's the only one, because now this version provides an opportunity to get rid of something better. For me as a lawyer, the most acceptable solution is codified. This means that in one place we will have everything that is said today. It means everything that matters, but I say we have two or three options. First, this law would solve the issue of civil servants and deputies. We see from the point of view and from the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure and the second and Mr. Vice-President said about the issue of officials and deputies in the Government for a matter in the President's office, on a matter in the judicial bodies, and now we would have the principle of four or five laws. I agree that you have specifics to regulate, but it would be most appropriate to regulate it in one place to regulate it codified. But that also means that we have it all figured out, that then we'll have the question, let's not have the pay issue solved by this, but let's give it the same time, and that law that's going to solve the pay issue, let's solve the issue that's still pending today, that's the issue of officials and tenants working in the administrative bodies of municipalities, cities and counties. Because we know ourselves that this law also indicates that a special law will regulate it, but we already have that variant, but unfortunately nothing has been done. And now we come to a new thing, I don't know if it was thought about, the specifics and in that area, the administrative bodies of the city of Zagreb. They are at the same time also doing self-rule and country-translated jobs, and now they do not see at all what law will be applied, because they have not done in the part-round work and description of the office's affairs... so let's say in paragraph 1 what are the tasks done by this office from the jurisdiction of the self-rule part of the city of Zagreb, which are other jobs that have been transferred from the state level. You'll have a variant that the regulation will work for a man who, for example, applies the regulations of one of the transposed states, and now that the law for him will be applied at some point for his status issues and other things. We know that we have a variant that when it comes to state administration offices, it means what is the first-degree body under the government's authority to normally apply that part to them, but who is now going to answer me the legal regulation that will apply to them. So that part is unspeakable. Also this part where this difference is done means about officials and deputies who are in the office of the Prime Minister and that, I think it would best be codified and then in the chapters to show these specificities. Because no one can tell me there's a difference between a dactylograph in the state administration office and a dactylograph in the president's office. It doesn't make any difference, because the dactylograph is doing the same jobs, the dactylographic jobs. There's also no difference for an employee in the office. An employee in an office at the state administration's office is doing his job just like he does in the president's office or other things. But what do we do? Let's make and prescribe by law the unique names of tasks and jobs... let's step up that part. You have paradoxical situations that we at lower levels have, say, a lot of systematicized senior advisors. What was that made of? It wasn't made because of the complexity of the business. It's not because of the complexity of the business, it's because of the fact that the man would stay in that place because he's been paid badly. So let's make that graduation about the detour and the complexity of the business, and then this variant will happen that it won't be possible, say, to set up in the offices of the ministries or in the offices of the state administration, that there won't be, like, 10 or 15 senior advisors. But it could be a maximum of 1, but then... in this section, both in the ministries and in the government and in the fates which are specificities, so we determine exactly that, and then we put that part of the salary accordingly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the only way we get one system. Because sometimes you had, let's say, that someone could have become a senior advisor had to have a 5-year job experience, but also a professional publication of papers. Professionally published papers. In 91st year, I was appointed senior advisor, but I had to propose these professionally published works from that area. So it's not written, it's published professional papers. Therefore, we return the profession to the state administration, but in these ways. Let's write it all down and let's not do all kinds of urinals. You saw the last government itself tried to do so she saw that she had come into teatnot, then she began to invent the functions of the minister's advisor, the government's advisor. These are all solutions that are not systematic. Systematic solutions are to prescribe the complexity of jobs, to prescribe who will do what, and then we will come the right way. Therefore, this is only the first step, and therefore I plead to go to the third reading because we do not get much of this, we will not get anything concrete that we will modernise the state administration, that we will have a state administration that will be in office of Croatian citizens, but this is just a step to access that part, to get meaning in one place everything that is codified. And now, especially now, since I'm running out of time, at that institution of rest, it's a good institute of rest. But that institute can't be performed by a man who works in that state administration. Look out, he's appointed a minister, and now he's gonna make peace with an employee who's been fired. And the minister appointed him, especially in the first part of the term of office. Well, there's no way he's going to do anything for that man, and he can be broken by the law to his harm. That's what we have to put people aside. We can't put fox and chicken in the same henhouse and expect to protect the chickens. No way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39812	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my dear colleague Markov's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39813	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. The system of state administration is one of the most important and necessary elements for the overall social regulation. It is directly interdepending on whether something in the state has succeeded in some reforms or not. It directly answers whether citizens are satisfied with the conduct of state authorities or not. He represents a kind of mediator between citizens and central government. Its tasks are both regulatory and educational and deep human, but its tasks are also very responsible because often certain reforms do not depend on the very quality idea on which it is left. Rather, in Croatian cases, much more depends on the possibility or inability to implement what is drawn, adopted and realised often gets stuck. Probably because of this when we come to power of any political structure at the beginning, especially at the pre-election time, but everyone calls it the beginning of the term, we solemnly undertake not to rule but to serve the citizens during our term of office. In the middle of that term, it pretends to paraphrasise citizens. At the end of the term, if it's not going exactly as it was thought, it's pretending to paraphrasise the terror of the citizens again. It is precisely because of such cyclical perceptions of the role played by the state administration or how the government places great dissatisfaction with citizens with the state administration. There is a great dissatisfaction of citizens in seeking what is their constitution and law. And in that lies all the weight and debates about civil servants. So much in principle. This Final Proposal for the Law that we are discussing today came at the last minute as regards the business deadline. It is probably the most important reason why a whole set of mistakes, errors, false interpretations, which surely one serious act such as it should not contain. Namely, the Proposer is without an explanation, or even if I didn't hear him, he changed the name of the act. But if he had done so more, he should have taken the name completely from the applicable law. Because this is how one category of government employees is left out. Although the Law, when adopted in nature, should also apply to them. It is about tenants who also work in the state administration and to whom this proposal also applies. I find it inappropriate that one not so small group of state employees who also contribute to the functioning of the state administration in this way are left out. The Law also completely disregarded the insistence on the advisory function of the professional service, but it was almost reduced to mere service. In this way, we will certainly not attract top experts to work in government services, and when the salaries are added and the status of officials can be assured that no young man will decide to devote his life to work in the administration. I also believe that the proposal over-emphasises the role of the Government and the Central Public Administration Office, since literally all issues concerning civil servants and subsistence are in the power of these two state bodies. Although this is probably clear to all, there are specificities in the work of each individual, and especially the highest authorities of the state. I therefore find it inappropriate for these bodies to fully take away any autonomy in deciding when it comes to their professional services. Because it is indeed a fact that has been observed before, and which I will also say a few words later, that one single law cannot cover all modes of work in all bodies of the state administration. For this reason, there is often an inability to literally apply the legal provisions, to their incorrect interpretation, and then to apply them and to the various forms of leaping out of the law, so that certain public authorities establish some other rules for their employees, and that is simply not good. It is also obvious that the proposal was drawn up according to the working pattern in the executive authorities and it is likely more applicable to them. However, when it comes to other state authorities, there are numerous problems with the literal application of such a law. I must admit that I do not see any serious reason why the government opposes the adoption of special laws that would involve professional services, such as the Constitutional Court, the Attorney General, the judiciary, the Croatian Parliament and the like. This final proposal even deleted Article 2(2), which nevertheless announced such an option. I guess someone wouldn't have taken advantage of it anyway. However, I believe that the adoption of special laws that, in at least some segments of service issues, would be more appropriate, more appropriate for the body for which the services work, contribute to the efficiency of these services, to their accelerated modernisation, to the quality of the work in them, to the improvement of the rewarding and promotion system, to better implement the classification of jobs, and so on. I therefore consider it necessary to delete Article 2(2), the deleted item should be returned to the text of the law. For example, in the Croatian Parliament, a system of staff division could be introduced through a special law as it exists in a number of countries to which we like to call upon those who carry out their work as a profession independently of the existing government and others who, as political advisers of individual parties, carry out political promotions in parliament for them. So one would prepare an expert opinion on an act while others would produce its political profile. A more appropriate system of evaluation of officials could also be found because this existing and the one proposed simply does not represent a proper assessment of the work of a congregation official and a staff member. A better solution would also be made for those jobs that intertwine, but because of their specificity, it is impossible to fully separate them. The current situation is such that one person performs several jobs or part of jobs that are not in her job description without, of course, not being rewarded at all, which naturally results in dissatisfaction. There could be many more examples, but I think you've been given an idea of the reasons why I really feel it is necessary to pass special laws for those bodies of state authorities that really work in different ways. I think it's one of the basic preconditions that management in general works in a harmonious and effective way and that's what we keep talking about and we're actually constantly sticking to the old, already-sniffed splinters. I do not agree with the explanation of the proposing who, by refusing to pass specific laws, said that the work of officials would not be compromised unless separate laws were passed, nor is it thought that our work would be compromised because it was not yet but the law is unique. Yet, various attempts over the past years have been made to isolate the need. I will remind my colleagues and colleagues here of the conclusion of the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament last term which has been proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, together with the Committee on Legislatives, to draw up and refer to the procedure of the Law on Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament on the line of implementation of constitutional standards on parliamentary democracy. Unfortunately, the conclusion remained unrealised and then the then government, like this one, opposed the adoption of a separate law. Although I have to admit that neither then nor now those reasons are clear. The only possible reason is the concentration of all powers over all services regardless of who they worked for. I wonder if this is appropriate to democracy as we seek, and whether it does in any way undermine the constitutional trinity of the authorities, because if one of the highest authorities does not have the right to autonomously decide on its professional service, on the classification of jobs, on the number of trainees and on various other issues that the Government or central office must now address for approval, it still points to a certain dependence and for issues for which there is really no reason not to resolve otherwise. I therefore propose that in any case this bill be referred to a third reading because such as will not contribute more effectively to the work of the body of the state administration, it will not help officials and tenants, and it will not help the basic objective, which is to serve the citizens, to serve the people and not to play them over and over again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39814	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39815	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I spoke on behalf of the Croatian Party Club of Rights, we were able to claim that unfortunately the state of the public or state administration is so bad that it even created the passiveisation of the public and professional associations and the real reform would necessarily require a detailed discussion of both the public and the professions in this matter. I'm just going to give you a few examples of certain provisions that are clearly depicting what I'm trying to say. For example, Article 33, 34, in which a number of provisions tighten and restrict the freedom and activity of civil servants and even in their spare time. I can't hear, Mr. President, myself from the marbles in the hall, so I stopped for a moment. A number of provisions are discriminatory nature, they represent an intrusion into privacy. For example, a civil servant may perform tasks or provide services to a legal person or a natural person only if such activities are not prohibited by such a person or a natural person or a legal person or a state body in which he or she is not in the service, or if such work is not prohibited, etc. So, the head of the body of this provision has the authority to determine what the officer will do this afternoon. For example, take an example. In any financial service, a Shalter official must not be part of an apartment for natural persons because these individuals can potentially be clients of the service in which he works. Article 34 provides for the obligation to report a potential conflict of interest. The method of reporting ultimately leads to an intrusion into the privacy of officials in such a way that almost every thing a lower official must confess to a senior official. For example, in a body, an officer of the fact that his son has rented a booth in a suburban market must inform a sub-principal who reports it to the Head of State and, in that way, the Chief of Staff, the Assistant Secretary of State and the Secretary of State of State may obtain approval. Article 65 and second, which proposes the establishment of a Committee on State Service as an independent body for the resolution of complaints on official matters. Members and presidents by my court should be appointed by the Council of the Republic of Croatia and not by the Government of the Republic of Croatia if they are in any way seeking to achieve a professional and independent body that would address the rights of officials. By law, this law does not only regulate the position of officials in the executive authorities but also the position of officials of the legislative and judicial authority, so why should such a board of state services be established by the Government, or appointed by the Government rather than by the Parliament. Article 90 regulates progress in the public service. It is achieved by deploying a civil servant to a higher position within the same category or by switching to a higher category of workplace. The provision of paragraph 2 states that a civil servant may be promoted. Well, I think that's clear in itself, so you don't have to write an exception here. But if you want to avoid self-will and to ensure legal certainty and certainty, then you should stand when a civil servant has to move forward and cannot. Therefore, objective criteria should be set which must be met and which do not depend on anyone's present will. Therefore, meeting objective criteria not only ensures legal certainty and the possibility of planning an employee on his career but also facilitates and planning jobs in the state service as well as the necessary financial resources for each post. Article 99 provides for serious violations of official duty. Many of these injuries have already been told by my colleagues before, but many of these injuries are not specific traits that should, of course, have acts that constitute a serious violation of official duty. Because such a provision, as mentioned in Article 99, may be a number of abuses. For example, what does it mean to fail to take measures or actions to which an official is authorised to prevent illegality. What's that? What is this definition, what is this criterion, and what is the basis for this criterion? Whether the official has failed to take the measures or actions he is authorised to do and to prevent illegality. So that's his superior's will. What does it mean to refuse to perform a task if there are no reasonable reasons? Who determines the reasons for this? It's his superior again. What does an unauthorized servant mean by the means entrusted to carry out a job? Unauthorized servants by the means entrusted to them for the performance of their duties. What does that mean? So when is he empowered and when is he unauthorized if his means are entrusted to him to perform his affairs? What does it mean to carry out activities contrary to jobs or without prior approval of the head of the body? What does it mean, finally, and what is the criterion for a serious breach of duty, says "the indelicate behaviour that damages the reputation of the service". Who determines that? Ethics code. Does that mean that this ethical code is prescribed and I don't know now, say, if someone decides to protest the goal of Jelacic's salary? Is this inappropriate behavior for his service? Well, I don't know. Someone can say it's very modern today. Recently, many civil servants have done so in Pamplona. It was on TV yesterday. So of all of this that's listed the only thing that's been typed as a major violation of duty is the unwarranted absence of work from two to four days in a row. That's the only thing that really is the criteria for a serious breach of duty. Say, "This is it," and all this remains subject to the interpretation of the superiors however anyone wants. For these very reasons, I must acknowledge that I have developed in the state administration and in general in the public administration in Croatia a kind of self-censorship, self-censorship of civil servants. Such a form was otherwise known in history particularly expressed by Stalin, so in the time of Stalinism, one self-censorship which, for example, all employees know about a whole series of negativity and illegality in a particular body but no one takes any steps. Why? Because they know how whistles go. With such a state administration, only short-term individual political interests can be achieved in my court, but there is no way we can achieve what we all want and what our whole mouth is full of are the general public goals that this society needs. From there, each and this government will face a huge ballast of the administrative apparatus as soon as a more complex question is to be resolved. If this ballast of the administrative apparatus is combined with political dilettism, we can expect a drop in standards and distortions of all values, which is visible to all of us and now that we live in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39816	Thank you. Deputy Secretary of State Zoran Pichuljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39817	I wouldn't, and I probably don't even have the right to do business in assessing the quality of the Croatian state administration. Let it remain an honorable representative, and I would only consider those serious injuries to the official duty that the fellow representative has stated. From 1994 to 2005, none of the injuries changed significantly. All that was written in the first law was written now and all the official ones, and the assessment of what was a real serious violation of all happiness is not left to the head but remains to the official court. So in that part, I wouldn't agree, I don't even believe that the official court didn't make one, one, one small step into it, a step in protecting the rights of the officers. And if his punishments were too mild, I would also, it's a matter of a court of law, not an assessment of me as a deputy secretary of state. Now, this is about serious violations of official duties, and around, a good proposal I think we're going to consider, about the Committee on State Services on mine, but this must be looked at by the Government, it would be more appropriate for the Parliament to do so. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39818	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39819	Mr. Deputy Secretary of State, I just referred to what you just said. If there's something going on since 1994 and we want to reform it, then let's change it. That's what I said. And let's not carry that from 1994 on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39820	It's a controversy again, isn't it? And an esteemed representative, don't give me a cover-up of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39821	Indeed, it is an incorrect claim because the decisions of the official court show that the official court has made a step forward. In what? The official court simply does not have any mechanisms or will to enable, or in any way, any responsibility of that officer where politics has interfered. But he's completely left defenseless and reluctant to deal with an officer who doesn't seem to be doing his job. That's our problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39822	Thank you. Dear representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39823	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! We have an extremely important Law on civil servants in front of us. A law governing the equal relationship between civil servants and the state as employers. Unique rules governing admission to the state service, classification of jobs, professional training and training of civil servants as well as promotion in the service. But also the responsibilities of thousands of civil servants who do business, the affairs of the state administration, or the state service act at all levels of all branches of government from the highest state authorities of each of these branches of government to, to, to, to, to regional, regional self-government units. As well as state authorities and other bodies established to perform public service. We have always wanted a smaller, more efficient, more educated, informative writing, more responsible, more professional, but also better paid technicalally equipped state administration that will serve citizens as well as institutions in which the state service behaves. This Law is particularly important at the time of the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to European integrations that inevitably bring about implementation of a different standard and criteria of professionality in all areas of work. And on this state service and civil servants. I am extremely important that this Final Proposal contributes to the depolitisation and professionalisation of civil servants as well as the reduced possibility of corruption in state services in its provisions. As such, solutions are defined in this law for the single admission into the state service, and the establishment of special state bodies is defined, i.e. committees to address disputed relations within the service. In fact, this Final Proposal of the Law on State Servants is a framework law to be perfected under legal acts, a decision on professional service and a regulation on internal order, and a regulation on internal order, which is particularly important to comply with this law, although I believe that in respect of the professional services of the Croatian Parliament, and also in the Constitutional Court, the Civilian Advocate has made the best proposal, which is also accompanied by the Chair of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, both because of the consistent troupe of government and because of the specificities of the tasks that these services carry out in relation to the classical state administration, that the status and position of these professional services is established and settled by a special law, and within the shortest time limit. Unfortunately, it is often present today, and even today for the Assembly speaker, the charges of officials working in the state's hard work administration, for slowness, for ineffectiveness, and some colleagues have also called for the citizens' nightmare. I don't think that's correct. I am responsibly saying that the vast majority of officials are doing their job, and because of the small part of the irresponsible officials, they don't deserve this labeling. Of course, a legally well - known procedure is how irresponsible officials should be sanctioned, and it is incorrect to place everything in the same basket. Finally, I welcome the adoption of this law because it is also one of the objectives of the Government's policy to develop the effectiveness of the state administration system, which will be directed towards citizens, decentralised, transparent and able to meet the administrative standards of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39824	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39825	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The civil servant and the civil servant are a mirror of the state and society, and it is therefore essential to define precisely what its obligations and duties are, in particular because it must be ensured by the state or society that conditions are necessary for the civil servant to act, act, work and present the state to his citizens and to all those who address him as the desired model requires. In these 15 years, the Croatian state has been unable to focus more seriously on reforming civil servants and deputies, because there have been far more important tasks. The entire state apparatus, meaning civil servants and tenants, has been taken over from the former system. We know well that all these people in the past have been modeled according to the standards of the then society so that many of the anomalies that we face today, or as a society, spend a great deal of it from this one part of the gap in which our civil servant and substitute are located, and I believe it is extremely unfortunate that our modern standards of entire society are far, far greater and more demanding than at this moment its opportunities and society itself. So in this light, I am personally looking at this proposal, that is, the final bill, and I suppose that when you read and review all the articles, you can actually see that it is going towards one goal to get one usable official that we will be able to be proud of. This is particularly important because Croatia is a country that prepares gradually for membership in a united Europe, and we don't care what kind of staff we will have and how it will one day present the Croatian state in the joint institutions of the European Union authorities. So I'm saying it's good that even now here on the home court, we're gradually playing a civil servant, we're training him, so if we spot some anomalies in time that we can legally, some changes, add to our internal system that will affect one of the better quality preparation of employees. There were objections to certain things here. I'll, for example, look back at the code of ethics in my debate. I think it's very good to refer to an ethical code, because by combining ethical standards with professional standards and legal standards that prescribe this law, we can reach the desired goal. All those activities, all those services that work with a man, who are in direct contact with a man, they actually have standards of ethical standards. It's got a pedagogue, it's got a doctor, it's got a professor, it's got journalists, cops, soldiers. In any case, I think it's a good thing that it insists on the ethical code and in some way the ball is transferred to the union, or to the civil servants themselves, that they show a part of the will to answer for the quality of the services they provide as civil servants and tenants. When I say more carefully review the whole law and when we promote our current social practice, one would wish this form of protection had every profession. You have a secure job, in a way you're protected from some unwanted influences, one part of the will, you have a secure salary, you have one defined way of progress. You know what's waiting for you. Such standards do not have any other professions in Croatia. Some solutions seem predetermined so that they might be feasible. This is about the declaration of some articles. The fact is, there is, and I believe that suddenly we can't get to one of those laws that we'd all be pleased with. But it's good for everyone to make their remarks about it. To make Croatia more determined, it is really important to reform and modernise the state administration in order to significantly reduce public costs, in order to strengthen governance and accountability in the public sector. Because so far, unfortunately, we have negative experiences. The public sector's as good as Alaibe's straw, as one area where you fly in, grab, drag, so if you get caught, if they don't catch you well, you're a fine fugitive, no one's coming back to it anymore. I think these goals really need to be supported by this final bill. Our objections to our civil servants so far are that they are not capable enough and professional personnel, that there is a lot of political interference, whether this is about the progress of individual officials, whether it is about employment based on similarity, that there is a lot of intertwination of private and public interest in the pursuit of public service, which often leads to conflict of interest, and thus favours the spread of corruption. Furthermore, the complaint is that there is no transparent system of jobs that would allow for progress in the state service when the prescribed conditions are met mainly without political conducting and that they are often unattractive wages and that the uncertain perspective of a employee's career is uncertain. Clearly, such objections stand, and this final bill is that if we really think seriously, it will reduce such objections in many ways and create a single route for a modern official. In our society, there were always more and more people who were looking for a job from our social opportunities to hire people and the current opportunities are like this, and that's why this one pressure on the state administration, which is why there is one pressure on a policy that is constantly pushing to find a solution for certain people in terms of employment and career creation. Because if there's no business in the economy, it's good any job in the state service because it allows for one security. And what if this candidate who's offered, if he doesn't have the necessary quality, obviously, that few people take care of it. But this system that is now being offered means "merid" system, meaning it's a system of knowledge, a system of skills and a system in which the results and skills acquired by work are valued, it should be. But I again ask at the end of my debate whether we really mean it when we offer this system, because this system rules out politics in the process of admission of personnel to the state service. Then what will politics do? So far, she's used to what I was talking about. If we take it, I believe the government meant it. If we accept, Parliament, this law, we have made a public oath to comply with these standards from the "merid" system, which means that we all have a responsibility for what we propose, and thus we will say and make it easier for our country and for the situation of relations that will be very different. There is some time here, I don't have time to make some remarks about some articles, but let's just say it's a good thing that there's an emphasis on conflict of interest here, even though it doesn't include civil servants under the influence of the law on the ban on conflict of interest, but in this part there's a dirty game going on, and it's a good thing that an accent was put here, and I would say, finally, it's a good thing that it's being sought at the admission of officials to the state service plan, to be published in "The People's News," to say at the beginning of the year... so that those who are interested and who have abilities can compete equally for admission to the public service. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39826	Thank you very much. And the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39827	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Sir Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that after a number of previous attempts to regulate legal regulation that regulates the employment relations of civil servants, for the first time, a comprehensive and essential law on civil servants has been adopted, which will ultimately give the right definition of a civil servant, his position in the state administration, his rights and obligations. Public administration reform is a serious and complex business and situation in which it is present in Croatia is one of the main causes of our country's lagging behind in attracting foreign investors. The reform of the administration is a template from which the concept of development must be read, which must indicate what is to be achieved and what are the objectives of one. One such serious reform requires primarily a change in the way of work so that services are faster and cheaper to seek education and a system of rewarding employees so that they are up to the demands of the modern administration, demand the public and availability of all data, seek decentralised and decentralisation, seek the possibility of resisting political pressures, seek technical special information equipment and networking of the entire system. I would also like to express my thanks to the working group that was working under the CARDS project within the Ministry of Justice, which was formed in 2003, in which representatives of all ministries and experts from the Faculty of Law and consultants from the European Commission successfully completed this work on making a proposal for civil servants modelling similar laws in the countries of the European Union, those in Western Europe and those in Eastern Europe. But so take into account all the specificities of our country from the tradition and customs of state service in this area. First of all, it is necessary to prevent the practice by which any new government regulates employment in the state service as it is most appropriate. It is also necessary because the existing State Service Act is too comprehensive, confusing and not responding to the present moment, the dynamics of changes in society and changes in the economy, and since a civil servant is actually a service to citizens, this need to adapt to those to whom it serves is more important. But so far, we've had some kind of civil servants and tenants law. These days we are witnessing in the city of Zagreb, whose employees are subject to the law, that under the cover of changing the name of the office of threats to those few educated and professional people in the headship. Shutting down the system in order to be less appropriate to the public, full centralisation of powers and political pressures that have not been seen for a long time and not even with us. The cleanups that were planned to be carried out can't be justified by anything. In addition to state officials, they were directors of institutions and museums. It is the state service that should be protected from adventurers who, in a short period of time, may cause inexplicable damage. Basic issues related to civil servants and so far have been regulated by the Law on civil servants and tenants and any informal incursion into the fundamental rights of civil servants and subsistence constitutes a serious attack on the system of administration and of course existential questions of officials. It is difficult to describe what kind of pressure the officers who are presented with a personal schedule form have found, so it is embarrassing for the officers with an excellent rating to make their schedules available. All this looks like lynch and political cleanups because no one is talking about mandated political places, clean official posts are also being questioned. After all, what is the system of evaluation proposed by this law? Was that official knowingly acting against anyone? Do we want to have officers who are afraid to say their expert opinion and a number of other issues that are being raised, to which the civilized world has long forgotten. One of the main settings and the fundamental starting point of this law within the CARDS project is the existence of a central office that manages the staffing policy in the state service, so it deals with human resources, takes care of continuous training and training of civil servants, monitors and facilitates their progress and co-ordinates employment in the state service. Article 39 of the Law proposes forming units in each state body where 50 or more employees are employed to be responsible for the development and management of staff. Furthermore, it would be necessary to define precisely the criteria for entering the state service, where the selection of personnel must not be left to the discretionary right of one person, whether it is the chief of staff, the secretary of the ministry or the minister to decide whose resume is better and who is more suitable for which post in the state service. On the contrary, I believe that the law, and according to earlier recommendations of the working group, which proposes the methods of testing and checking what are the usual today in every small company should be established so-called. "head hunting" office with the central authority of the state administration responsible for official relations which would have a database of verified test personnel required by state authorities and particularly deficiting such as lawyers, economists and IT. In this way, the state administration should be given a better quality and professional frame. What is certainly very important in this law are provisions on the assessment of their work and the possibility of progress. This is in the existing law, but neither in this proposal is fully nor sufficiently clear. The fact is that the process of making available is long and ineffective and that the cancellation of the service should be regulated differently for civil servants whose jobs are no longer needed. To get rid of surpluses by putting on notice lists, and not at the disposal of those who are by product so-called, famous mergers of ministries, neither guilty nor debtors, along with a few real surpluses, which should be recognised in the state service there will remain much on the street. One of the most important issues is how to attract young, high-quality staff to be employed in the state administration and to keep an employment and quality fit in this state administration, especially in information that we know from experience that they are not available in the authorities of the state administration, since their existence with a well-paid job can be achieved in any company in the city. This Law only provides a framework for a classification system, since it will be defined by the rest of the Government Regulation. The question now raises the question of how and whether this regulation will really properly regulate the possibility of the progress of civil servants in a satisfactory manner. I support the way in which the evaluation of the work and the effectiveness of civil servants, as set out in Article 83, is designed for evaluation between other and rewarding purposes. In the current law, Article 111 state officials are for the nat average results to achieve a performance supplement, but gentlemen, the prize is never achieved by a civil servant. He only got two days on vacation. And why is that? Because they weren't insured. If we cannot adequately reward those who achieve the net average results of work, how to maintain a quality fit in the state service, that is, to reward the successful but also punish the failures. This is a basic criterion for progress in the state service, but also for any service outside the country. But I don't see how success and nat average commitment will be evaluated. Who and how will evaluate success and work. We know from experience that so far the evaluation has often been lacking, especially in the range of possible assessments and indeed bad when only the knowledge of officials is evaluated, and not its motivation, observed through the speed of performance of tasks, without talking about self-initiative in business. Article 89(1) determines that a public official assessed will not be satisfied with additional professional training to improve the quality of his work. Who are we kidding? What kind of officer will go to extra training? It's a de facto reward for his unhappiness, and in the meantime, successful officials will be doing his jobs. In such a way, we detimise successful people rather than motivate and encourage officials to work better. What is the necessary means for the best civil servants, how much funding is needed for these purposes? There are no answers in the proposed provisions. I must stress here the current situation in terms of wages, and given that according to the proposed law, it is also applicable to officials and subsistence in the administrative bodies of units of local and regional self-government. The adoption of a special law governing their rights, obligations and responsibilities, and the issue of salaries for officials and subsistence officers in the State Administration is determined by a special government regulation. And for officials and tenants in JLS, for example, the City of Zagreb, acts of headship. What's going on? The city's chief has a salary accounting coefficient 4.5, and the ministry 1.9. The salary of the city's chiefs with the same internship, relief and other things is higher by approximately 2,000 kuna. And in the end, I'm going to refer not to the provisions that determine the transfer of officials and that's temporary. Both in force and in this case, temporary transfer cannot last longer than 6 months. The practice has shown something else, which is that the same takes a lot longer, and therefore it would be necessary to determine that in cases where the movement lasts longer than 6 months and for this there is a basic need for the official to permanently move, not that the temporary transfer is extended every 6 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39828	Thank you very much. Now we'll interrupt, continue at 3:00 with a debate on behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing to discuss the final proposal of the Civil Service Act. On behalf of the HSU Club, the final five minutes, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39830	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Central Office, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Party of Retired People considers it best that this Proposal for a Law be sent to a third reading, given that the text of the Law as a final proposal, that the text of the Law as a final proposal is different from the text of the law in the first reading and that certain chapters are not compatible. Another reason for this law to be directed into third reading is the high degree of non-compliance of this final proposal among the social partners, and by nature of things, we representatives of the Croatian Parliament do not pass laws for us and for our sake, but for those whose rights and obligations are governed by this law, and therefore their attitudes, if not crucial, are at least important to be respected in the adoption of this law. Of course we need to ensure that the system works as well as possible. The third reason to refer this law to a third reading is a large number of amendments, but also the fact that the law provides for the adoption of new laws and implementing rules whose compliance is very important for the functioning of the entire system and it would be very good for the social partners to have a review of this whole range of legal acts and under legal acts in order to essentially assess their compliance. I quote the objection of a part of the civil servants in the sense of not helping us, because the last time we discussed civil servants, our wages fell. I think that's enough reason to be careful. If the legislator finds a sufficient number of reasons for such a thorny uncertain path to employment, and during the trial work, and then passing the state exam, it would be logical that in Article 87 which speaks of the assessment of work and efficiency there are only two evaluations outstanding and excellent. Because it's not possible for someone else to survive in a system like this. This is how a rigid system with the desire to prescribe every second of time, every cubic millimeter of space, to uniformize every thought does not leave room for creativity and improve the quality of jobs, but rather gives the intention not to deviate from the strictly controlled processes. In such a centralized system with a large number of unemployed in the state mobing is possible, the mobbing is present and there is a need to speak publicly of it no matter how silent we are about it and to prescribe the provisions that prevent it. Also in this law there are no provisions on sexual harassment, but also on the protection of whistles. For the Croatian pensioner party, it is unacceptable to conclude an operating contract with external service providers without restrictions and on the basis of the discretionary authority of the Ministry of Finance. It is also unacceptable that the rules of conduct of civil servants are governed by the ethical code to be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Imagine analogies if the government brought in a medical, psychological, or legal code. HSU, the Croatian party of pensioners will intervene on this Final proposal also with a number of amendments that we are trying to correct nomotechnical expression or better define some dilemmas. However, the position of the motionor depends on whether the final bill will be voted by representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39831	Thank you very much. Final review. Deputy Secretary of State Zoran Pichuljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39832	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank all the clubs and all the representatives for a good debate, for constructive proposals and indeed a series of proposals that would improve the text through amendments, which through the amendments which, by my assessment, are nevertheless nomotechnical and less contentable, conceptal nature. What is most attacked is the conceptal approach of the government itself as a promoter, which is a prelude to the elasticity of one part of the matter in the area of sublegal regulations, and this will be regulated by regulations, but according to our assessment there are no norms or most of these norms today, in today's legislative regulation, i.e. legislative regulation, some technique no longer belongs to all of the legal matter. It's hard to codify a complete and make a civil servant code the way these regulations were made ten, twenty-fifty years ago. I think that in this part of the issue, the government has practically taken over one way of making regulations and a whole modernization of the administration of official law enforcement in a way that will also take the responsibility to do so. Is there something that should have been transferred to the law? This law has not derivated all the solutions of the previous law in significant solutions. He has taken over the good solutions of those laws which he was and took in four, five institutes which are now developed from management, reception, training of people, awards, or promotions and protection in one specific way in possession and through new institutes of protection of officials and above all of the affirmation of quality and one balance between the affirmation of quality and protection of official rights I think he has achieved his purpose. I'm sure it's not ideal. I'm sure it can be done. As far as we think about the comments made here, we will certainly consider a special law that is part of the observations made by both the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure and several MPs on a possible specific law or reference to specific legislation as regards the Constitutional Court, the Croatian Parliament, the Advocate General, the State Auditor, and if I could say, without a problem, defend a different legal position and I don't think there would be a threat to the government's trodiotry. In that objection that it is a fundamentally different one that has now come out the same way in this last one, the last Mr. MP said significantly different conceptal differences compared to the first reading are simply not so. He did not, in any important solution, follow the bill, the previous bill that was sent six months ago. Also on the consistency of the social partners of the union and, entrepreneurs and the government twice debated, the concept supported on the first reading and the day before yesterday when we also had a meeting with the amendments that we accepted, which we introduced into the Government's amendments, the concept agreement was reached. So today's amendments, however they may seem to be, and it seems to us that they can be entered into the current text and that they will abide by the law then that criticism that regardless of whether it's 7-8 or 20 amendments, I think the dominant will be these nomotechnical ones. The third reading, yes or no, is not for me to judge. We'll give our employer, the government all your remarks, all our disagreements, but here I think I've said a lot in this address about our current stance on the final bill. The government will go out on its own, so far it has come out and it is an integral part of this proposal 7 or 8 amendments. The amendments to the Legislative Committee were accepted on the first, I think they are fully acceptable, and on the second amendments 30 to 40% of the amendments are quite acceptable so I hope that we will be able to work out the text in that part, but it seems to me that the law in that important part corresponds to the needs of today and the future time, which means that it affirms officials, quality in the official system, and that through it one shift is normative to a better state administration. There were very sharp criticisms from the Croatian state administration. I'm in that same administration for 15 years, and I think there's enough potential in that administration to affirm all their knowledge in one way and that this negative trend, or a negative image, is a flat-rate, actually a general picture that doesn't even fit the truth sometimes. This law in the normative part, this is a good normative basis for us to go into modernization, and the modernization of the right will not take place either by this law or by sublegal acts but by all the things we have said today, as the honourable ladies and gentlemen MPs have said, and this is consistent with the implementation of these rules from the beginning, from the reception of officials to objective criteria, to the deployment, or the cancellation of contractual working relationship to the same objective criteria, and the whole promotion by the same criteria. I think that two words that, or two marks that may not have been carried out entirely until the end, but which are seen from the very spirit of the law, which is a tendency to professionalise which is in the good part of the norm and confirmed and a tendency, no doubt a desire to depolitise a system which will continue through the regulations that many advocates have mentioned, which is the Law on the System, the Law on Government, the Law on State officials, and in this way I will probably think, by the end of the year, that strategic commitment to depolitisation of the system, and professionalisation is a process that will last, we hope, from the state administration, will also win this conflict with a non-professional approach. I thank you all for a very constructive discussion. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39833	Thank you very much. Since there have been very many amendments to this law, that there are proposals for third reading, that there are and in particular from the Committee on the Constitution and the Committee on Legislatives not only amendments but there are also proposals from these two committees that, in terms of a series of institutes and articles, it is up to you to complete or make it clearer to take a phonogram, all these amendments and try to respond well and prepare for Friday, in particular to consider whether these two committees, in particular, suggest that you resolve the amendments other than the amendments that you have submitted, to consider whether these remarks in relation to certain articles should be incorporated as your own government amendments. I'm concluding a debate on this final bill. We are going to vote on the final proposal of the Civil Service Act. First of all, we have a proposal for a conclusion of the club of representatives of HSP, which reads as follows: The final proposal of the Law on civil servants will be implemented on the third reading of the law due to the conditions laid down in Article 158. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? In conclusion 39, 3 abstentions, 68 v. He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39836	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is a nomotechnical improvement of text in the same text with a small difference as the amendment... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're right. Thank you very much, Vice President. So suggest loud and clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39837	...to vote on amendments by raising hands, and then we can vote this one again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39838	Okay. First, we must vote as Vice President Arlovic has rightly warned. Are we even going to vote on amendments, debate and vote? Who is in favour of this proposal to vote and discuss the amendments made by the Government that have been submitted after the deadline? Against? One, so it's unanimous with one vote against adoption. And now give a brief explanation for some of your amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39839	Thank you. Amendment 1 to the nomotechnical improvement of the text is the same accepted amendment by Professor Josipovic, the esteemed representative Josipovic, in something minimally modified. Amendment 2. Filling in enable the filling of jobs in the state service to members of national minorities accepted amendment of the SDSS Representatives Club in a slightly improved text. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39840	Deputy Secretary of State, I'm talking to you about amendment one to your government, you. Don't mention anyone else now. Normal. Restricted to that, please. I'm opening a debate on that amendment. I'm closing up. I'm voting on that amendment. Please, who's in? We vote by raising our hands. Thank you. Against? Restraint? An amendment adopted unanimously. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39841	Reasoned, enabling the filling of jobs to members of national minorities in the state service.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39842	I'm opening a debate. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39843	I would just like to point out that it was an amendment of the SDSS as well as a comment by the SDP Club that this amendment is being taken into account and that, in the future, when similar laws are being prepared, it is taken into account that the law must comply with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. We support the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39844	Thank you. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in favour? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 110 votes, unanimously accepted that amendment. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39845	Amendment 3 shall be given by the time limit within which the official is to be admitted, i.e. to make a decision on the schedule for the staff member’s office.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39846	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The amendment adopted unanimously with 111 votes. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39847	It allows the masters and doctors of science in the area to be freed from passing a special part of the national expert exam.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39848	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that it has been unanimously accepted by 112 votes of amendments. 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39849	It shall be possible to pass an expert examination where it was not possible to do so earlier than within the appropriate time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39850	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Honorable deputy president Mate Arlovic on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39851	On behalf of the SDP Club, we are pleased that this amendment has been delivered by the Government because it has accepted our remark by ensuring quality protection of workers' rights in the civil service, i.e. civil servants and subsistence in the conditions of residence and in the case of prevention of maternity leave. Thank you very much. We'll vote yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39852	I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted unanimously with 111 votes. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39853	Legally, the text and word "citizens" are replaced by the words "physical persons" which is more appropriate when determining responsibility for damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39854	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 6. Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 110 votes, this amendment has been adopted. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39855	In accordance with the position of the Legislative Committee, the more precise institute of entry into force of the law is defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39856	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? I find that 109 votes accept this amendment. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39857	Same explanation as before, with Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39858	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that with 107 votes to adopt this amendment. Now let's get on the table with the amendments to the MPs and the club representatives. Do you have it? Thank you. 1st Amendment of Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39859	It is not accepted, although in principle it is completely consummated with our amendment number one only with a slight change.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39860	Right, it's consummated. Amendment 2 to Agent Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39861	It is not accepted because this law regulates the rights and obligations of all categories of civil servants and at the moment we did not consider it necessary specifically... some categories to be regulated by a special law. And this was done and provided for in Article 4(2) of this Final Proposal, and the Government will later, when this whole package of official legislation is discussed through the Regulations, try to determine whether these special rights of employees of the Croatian Parliament, the Constitutional Court and the State Audit will be resolved by a special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39862	Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39863	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I plead with the MPs and I appeal to accept this amendment, because this would not be said at first sight a simple amendment. This amendment, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, is simply required to allow this Law to apply to these categories of officials, but that this law stipulates that this application will apply until the special law regulates the position of the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court, the Office for State Audit and other constitutional categories for a simple reason, because it is services that do not fall within the classical state administration by nature. And that's why I'm pleading to accept this amendment. Nothing in particular will change in relation to the application of the law and it is ensured that the law regulates these issues in particular legally and definitely resolves them. In addition, such views were taken by members of the Committee on the Constitution and the political system and by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39864	We should vote. Please, let's get on with it. No, we vote manually. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39865	Amendments are not accepted because they are consumed through Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39866	It has been consumed by this previous amendment which has not been accepted. 4. HNS's PGS representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39867	It is not accepted because we believe that the final proposal is better resolved nomotechnically than the proposal of the club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39868	Who will be represented by Nikola Vuljanic on behalf of the HNS Club PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39869	The idea was to improve the expression, however, if the promoter says it is not necessary to give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39870	Is that the amendment withdrawn?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39871	Yes, yes, withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39872	Thank you very much. Amendment 4 withdrawn. Amendment 5. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39873	It is also not accepted because it is not about improving the text but only about legal and technical cosmetics, which is again better resolved by the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39874	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39875	This is an HSU amendment. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39876	First of all, I cannot understand that this article did not have any objections to the Union of Civil Servants and Paids because I simply do not know how one such social entity can allow the basic task of which the union exists to determine by a special law. But that's their will, and we just wanted to distinguish what's regulated by a special law and what's regulated by a collective agreement. So, both nomotechnical and content... It is your will to refuse it and I will ask for a vote on this amendment. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39877	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Six. The club also represents the HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39878	The same is not accepted because this Article 13 introduces an institution for the right to run for officials in the elections, which does not appear to be Article 11 and therefore there are two institutes that resolve in particular Articles 11 and 13 thereof. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39879	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39880	I believe that the post-election period is also covered by Article 11 in which each official and the consignee is guaranteed to be protected by the Head of State and senior officials who are required to treat all civil servants fairly and equally regardless of their racial status, political belief, gender, marital and family status. I believe that this is an out-of-the-way out-of-out-of-the-way act, and that's why we're thinking about erasing it, because this provision in Article 11, paragraph 1, is quite sufficient. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39881	Please, who's in favour of that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7th representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39882	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39883	It becomes an integral part of the law. 8. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39884	It is not accepted since it is not about the same content as in Article 17 of the rejection of the offered gifts. This norm represents a European standard, and that is why we are including it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39885	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39886	It is not clear to me because Article 17 specifically states that it is forbidden for a civil servant to request or receive gifts for personal benefit, for the benefit of family or organisation for a more favourable solution to the subject of administrative and other proceedings. And in Article 18, says the ban on the unwarranted remuneration of other civil servants, and we say a civil servant must not offer or offer gifts or other benefits to another civil servant, his relative or his or her spouse, or an extramarital mate, in order to achieve his or her own benefit. If no one is allowed to accept what is the provision that an official may not offer to another public servant. I don't get it. Again, I think it's an outstretched act. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39887	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 9. HNS's PGS representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39888	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39889	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 10th same club of HNS representatives of PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39890	It is not accepted, given that the authorisation to carry out temporary operations outside its regular powers relates to an emergency and persists during those circumstances. Therefore, there is no need to distract... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39891	That's the one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39892	Okay. Amendment 10 is withdrawn. 11. HNS's PGS representative's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39894	If the amendment of Professor Josipovic, who has dealt with similar topics in his amendment, is accepted, I agree that he will give this up. However, unless I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39895	Representative Josipovic's amendment was adopted on Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39896	Therefore, we can give up on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39897	Then he's retired? Thank you. Amendment 12. HNS's PGS representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39898	Amendment 12 is not accepted. It is not accepted because the solution of the mediators is arranged by the adoption of amendments that will come a little later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39899	Here you go, colleague Vuljanić!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39900	Namely, the idea was that the mediator could not be resolved by one party in the intermediation. It's in this case the head of the office. If the intermediary intervenes between the employees and the person who wronged him, it is possible that the employee intervenes with the mediator has no purpose whatsoever that the same mediator, dissatisfied with his work, may be replaced by the service manager. If that's accepted in any of the other similar amendments, fine, and if it isn't again, I ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39901	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13th Amendment of the Club of HNS Representatives of the PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39902	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39903	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 14. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39904	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39905	It becomes an integral part of the law. 15. HNS's PGS representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39906	It is not accepted because the norm of improvement by the adoption of amendments to the Committee on Law, what we have just done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39907	A colleague of Vuljanic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39908	Retracted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39909	Retracted on the 15th. The 16th representative of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39910	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39911	It becomes an integral part of the law. 17. HNS's PGS representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39912	It's not acceptable because it would just that way... There was a possible conflict of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39913	A colleague of Vuljanic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39914	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39915	17th Retired. 18 representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39916	It is not accepted because this possibility of conflict of interest due to ownership in the company and other legal persons is well-organised in Article 34(3) and (5) of this Act, this final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39917	There's no representative, we have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19th Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39918	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39919	We have to vote. Who's in favor of that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39920	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39921	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 21st Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39922	It is not accepted because this is not legal matter, it will be governed by sublegal implementing acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39923	She's a colleague of Alenka's Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39924	Thank you. It would be great to do this through a sublegal act because I think it's necessary in our government that we have one place where we can finally select and use it as needed in all the official places. I demand a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39925	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 22. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39926	It's unacceptable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal prescribes the delivery of the Internal Order Regulation to the central authority of the State Administration responsible for official relations not on prior consent but solely on opinion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39927	HSP club? There's no one here. We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? No one. 23. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39928	It's already been accepted through our, uh, amendment to the government just before. Now in this stipulation we do not accept it, we have installed it in Amendment number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39929	On behalf of the promoter, Honorable Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39930	Well, since we've already accepted the replacement solution, we're withdrawing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39931	Amendment 23 is withdrawn because it is essentially accepted through Amendment 2. Government. 24. HNS representative's club, PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39932	It is not accepted because the solutions of this Act propose exactly the same possibility of deploying to the job-free staff and those who are within the state bodies and apply through an internal tender to a job which is available.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39933	A colleague of Vuljanic's?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39934	The idea was to rationalize and save some money. That's it. that the Head of State, or central authority involved, has the possibility to deploy an official available to a place that corresponds to his or her abilities and to prepare an expert elsewhere. So he's at his disposal and gets paid, the job is free, our proposal is not to call a tender let's send there a man who already pays anyway. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39935	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 25. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39936	It's not acceptable because the proposed formula that the government has given seems to be a little bit better.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39937	Honorable representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the HSU Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39938	A very short explanation, we seem to have a formula that we have proposed something better, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39939	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39940	It is not accepted, the possibility of hiring foreigners is open in Croatian legislation, since the 1990s, and I don't think that such a restrictive norm should be set and the possibility of not receiving can always be done in the tender procedure. So we don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39941	I'm a colleague of the Hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39942	Well, we found it strange that in the previous paragraph it was explicitly forbidden to a person who had no Croatian citizenship, so we felt that no exceptions should be made in the same article of the Law. That's why we suggested this change. There may be different solutions to other laws, but I think I find it a little strange in the same article to ban and then give this exception. I'd like a vote on that article.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39943	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 17th representative of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39944	Sustained. Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39945	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 28. HNS-PGS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39946	It is not accepted but it is practically consumed by Amendment 3. Governments, so, totally, so there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39947	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39948	Retracted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39949	Retracted. 29. these were components of the Government's amendments, which were already discussed and adopted and accepted. 30. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39950	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39951	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 31. HNS-PGS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39952	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39953	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 32nd has already been accepted. 33. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39954	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39955	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 34th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39956	The same thing is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39957	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 35. Government, this has already been discussed and accepted. 36. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39958	It is not accepted, given that a special act should determine who has been elected as mediator. It is noted that the head of the body can only appoint a mediator the person who is... It's chosen in the elections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, protection of official rights is also guaranteed in one decent way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39959	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39960	We felt that there could be no two principles at the same time, no, especially not in such a sensitive area as mediation, so we defined ourselves as just one principle, which is choosing and recognising an election result without further appointing process. We think it would be more correct in such a sensitive area. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39961	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 37. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39962	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39963	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 38. Representative Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39964	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39965	It's becoming an integral part of the law, and it's my amendment just haven't been able to write it. The 39th representative of Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39966	It is not accepted because in the European administrative systems one system and another system, director, director, director-general, Director-General is known. We think there will be plenty of room for us to go with the directors as directors of the general categories in this part of the law, then single out the system of state administration and define the general directors in those bodies where they actually have to have a comparative position, that is, that position. For example. in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39967	Here you go, fellow Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39968	My attitude remains the same. I think that this argument results in both the need and the fact that it would be better to install the Director-General's Law, i.e. the Director-General, by now, to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39969	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 40. The government has already been resolved. 41st Representative of Ratka Gajica. Retracted. 42nd Agent Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39970	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39971	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 43. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39972	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39973	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 44th Representative of Ratka Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39974	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39975	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 45. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39976	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39977	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 46th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39978	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39979	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 47. The government's already taken care of it. 48. We've also installed governments into the law. 49. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39980	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39981	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 50th representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39982	It's actually a typeefeller, is that, in fact, it's an article 153 not 135, and we've accepted it through Amendment 8 so we won't accept it, we've improved it a little bit in agreement with the MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39983	You fixed the tipfeller in the bill?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39984	Yeah, we've done everything so we've solved the amendment. With our amendment, we've settled this. We don't accept this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39985	There are no MPs we have to vote for even though that's the way it is. Who's up for that amendment? Okay. He didn't make it. 51. Government. It's an integral part. 52. HNS's PGS representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39986	Same thing. It's not accepted, but actually accepted through this, through the amendment, the previous amendment to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39987	A colleague of Vuljanic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39988	We're pulling back, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39989	Retracted. 53. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39990	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39991	He became an integral part of the Law. 54th of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39992	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39993	55th Vice-President Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39994	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39995	That's right. It becomes an integral part of the Law. 56th Agent Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39996	The CEO is, we don't accept with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39997	Okay. Because the result of the vote will be the same as the previous one I withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39998	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 57. The HNS representative's club PGS?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u39999	We don't accept it, and it's actually consumed by Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40000	A colleague of Vuljanic's?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40001	Consumed. We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40002	Thank you. Retracted. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Civil Service Act. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 81 votes for, 15 abstentions and 9 against the adoption of the Civil Service Act together with the amendments adopted and in accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the legislators of this Act, a revision of its text before its publication in the National Journal. Please, who's in? Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 97 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40005	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The judiciary, the judicial system is considered ineffective, it's a general assessment and it's repeatedly spoken for by this speaker. Why? The reason could be stated a lot, but what in the minds of the citizens prevails on why the judicial system is ineffective is to learn that, as a rule, their court proceedings take too long, whether these reasons are objective and subjective, this is a second question, but the fact is that it is generally considered that court proceedings take too long. They are directly related to their duration with a large number of backlogs, a large number of pending cases that really burden the judiciary and prevent it from being more effective. When we talk about this great burden of a case hanging over the judiciary, the main blame falls right on the executives. And what does the verdict mean? The existence of a verdict, a final verdict or any other executive act if it cannot be carried out? At this point in work in front of all the courts in the Republic of Croatia are these cases, executive cases total number of 677 thousand 219 cases. This figure itself is frightening and it really requires us who are in the judiciary and the government and the overall society to really deal with this problem. I'm not going to say that we haven't dealt with it before, but several times proposing amendments and additions to this law, Executive Law, it seems to me that so far there have been as many as five of them who have obviously not shown and led to the desired success. Why do I think it can still be achieved by this law, i.e. why they propose solutions to this law to make the law itself an effective tool, an effective means of successful implementation of executive laws, procedures. Because the goal of each executive procedure is to end and implement the coercive process as soon as possible, as effectively as possible, the collection of the religious claims. So our goal is to finally establish in our legal system this discipline in the first order of the debtors to strengthen the position of the debtor, i.e. the believer, I apologize, and that the finality ceases as the protection of the debtors is often said and that an effective means is indeed made possible. Therefore, this law will enable the executives, so that the creditors are more easily understood, faster and easier to access the data of the property of the perpetrators, will make it impossible to conceal the property of the perpetrators and thus in an indirect manner and not implement the exercise. We will allow one transparent sale of all 50 thousand kuna property and movables in court proceedings by introducing a special eyewitness that will be placed on the Internet, so it will be made publicly available, making it more efficient to sell, thus seeing real estate and movables, and thus making their sales more efficient. It also facilitates real estate sales, faster real estate sales that have often created problems in practice. In the absence of any sales under the initial price of the product, the Commission found that it was not able to provide any information on the basis of the information provided by the exporting producer. It is also prescribed to enforce court decisions before their power, of course to a certain censorship, to a certain limit. Therefore, to judicial decisions worth from a thousand kuna to 5,000 kuna for legal persons, we hope to reduce unnecessary litigation in the second degree, thus directly discharging courts second-degree in the case where the appeal is indeed legally unfounded. Of course, these perpetrators don't get their hands on constitutional protection, but they're being stimulated to consider whether they're going to complain and unnecessarily pay the court fee if... that the dispute will be lost. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're still going to direct protection of the executives, not the perpetrator, i.e. the debtor. It is, then, not to be encouraged but to be punished in some way if it knowingly abuses its rights and prevents the realization of the executive document. Bianco is also in charge of all natural and legal persons, and this will allow for the implementation of the action without litigation. And indirectly, it's actually going to unload the courts of a series of litigation cases. It also introduces an institute, a new institute of performance on securities run by a central depositary agency. The provisions of the Act have also been amended to allow the collection of money by all accounts of legal persons, and one important newspaper is also being carried out in the movement, which we believe will significantly improve the performance of this type of thing, in the case of movement. So far, I'm just reminding myself, the performance was actually carried out in the rooms, in the apartment, in the special rooms of the performers, which didn't quite win. Now it's gonna be taken from their property and sold over... , so through third parties who are not in any way personally interested. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are only interested so much that they achieve a better commission, which is a better effect through the operation of movables. We believe that this significant obstacle to the implementation of the exercise, efficiency when it comes to movements will be removed because according to our data, even in municipal courts, 89% of the procedures refer to the performance of the movement. It is also predicted that the courts will be relieved and will allow faster implementation of the implementation on mostly monetary claims by entrusting the issue of a solution on the basis of decent documents to public notaries as public trust persons. In fact, a large number of objects are just dropping off on such executives. In commercial courts, it is as much as 69%, in municipalities it is around 15%, and already only such percentages show that this will significantly relieve courts on the one hand, judges that they can deal with litigation cases, and experience in desert procedures shows that regardless of the initial difficulties, when they have entrusted these procedures to the desert public notaries, these proceedings are shorter, they end much faster, and indeed there are not many complaints. For example, for example, the Varazdin Municipal Court, out of a thousand 300 cases, there were only four objections. That's what we're hoping to get a lot of attention and speed up this part. Also when it comes to movements, it is actually introduced on one of the frequent movements on which the engine vehicles are carried out. This type shall be applied to this particular type of movable, the motor vehicles shall be specially adjusted. It makes it possible to obtain direct data through the Ministry of the Interior and thereby significantly prevents abuse when it is necessary to carry out on vehicles. Therefore, all of this is considered an important newspaper that will finally contribute to the creation of an effective executive procedure. That's something I was saying at the outset, the figure itself suggests the necessity of change. If you just allow one digression, our experience when we're going to fight for backlogs on land-book items says that it's certainly not enough just to change the law and think that we've done everything. First and foremost, education of the system, so both judges and those working on the job, on the one hand. On the other hand, significantly strengthen the organization, control to determine and see where the tight throats that really make it impossible to carry out the application may be. So one control of the success of the proposed solutions. And just final, this is the final proposal, so, second reading. The promoter adopted, there are no major changes, but we certainly adopted all those suggestions and suggestions that go towards improving the text. Some of them aren't. The reasons for this are detailed in the explanation, so I will not go into detail on this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40006	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? The Justice Committee? Committee President Ana Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40007	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the 22nd session held on 6 July 2005, the Croatian Judicial Committee discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 2 June 2005. The Committee discussed the Law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The opening representative explained the difference between the solution in the final draft of the Law in relation to the solutions set out in the proposal for a law and pointed out that, on the basis of a number of objections, the applicant gave up the proposed amendment in Article 16(4). In the debate, most members supported the proposed legislative solutions to the Final Proposal of the Law. The Committee members made certain comments and proposals to be considered by the proposer before adoption. The proposal is for members of the Committee to be nomotechnically arranged in Article 102. The final proposal of the Law in a way that before the word "section 4." I want you to fix your head and set your number. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided, with 7 votes in favour and 1 vote against and 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law with the next amendment. In Article 87 behind the word "Head 14." the letter "a" is added. The reasons for the amendments, therefore, are only no-technically governed by the proposed text of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40008	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40009	Thank you, Mr. President, for your honor of the secretary of state, your colleagues and your colleagues. When we discuss the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act in order to know what we are discussing at all, we must remember and bear in mind the last amendments to the Implementing Law that took place in 2003. After... Vacacio legis was one year old to prepare public notebooks, prepare offices, prepare staff to take over most of the jobs, and thus, as the Law on Public Registration and allows them to act as Commissioners of the courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After a year, we have a situation where the government suspends those provisions, and that way we're late, here we are, full of two years. With that, we'll all agree, overloading the courts, and above all a huge number of executive cases. There's a referendum that executes the full court's verdicts. And what's going on? Which is not disputed, but if we determine that fact and if it really does exist between us, then what do we do? That litigation takes a long time but that the only thing that lasts longer than the litigation. I think it's because I really believe it because at the end of the day it's the efficiency of a single government being measured by how effective it is, how much all its branches are, as separate and independent as a whole, function. Ms. Minister said in her own words that she wanted to relieve the judiciary but also something like that that will be spoken about afterwards, and that is quite the opposite of what the government has said and what the government has supported, and that is fiduciary, and that is that when large capital occurs as a believer there is no conversation, then we are efficient. And what a message of these changes is very small, very modest. They're practically bringing us back, and that's what the public needs to know. In the end, it is seen from some, from the explanation of certain provisions, that it is returning to the state before the 2003 amendments, which, as far as I know, is the author of this Executive Act, has attacked these amendments, which I consider to be the most commendable of those laws, which is the exercise that will no longer be delayed because it came from the aprior attitude that debtors are never right. And please, do you know of any case that the believer unwarrantedly sought something or that he sought in the matter when he was already at peace? Well, that's exceptions. The most common case is and this is the irrefutable truth that the execution is suspended and that the believer is not charged, and that is what shames the judicial system and we must help him not to be a prisoner, to be able, to be able to be the state to execute the judgments that he himself makes, i.e. Fate power. We reintroduce the mazes, appeal is the rule again, not the exception, the debtor is favored again. But there's something that's express and it's protecting me to say big capital. This law, i.e. these amendments, favour or provide absolute protection to the sole financial banking elite. So when you owe a bank that only admits a mortgage but a fiduciary institute, it doesn't matter how much you owe it. There's no litigation, there's no executive procedure at all, there's all that clear. The bank becomes the owner. But when a citizen owes a citizen, when a worker appears versus an employer or towards a state to collect his claim and then we have provisions of appeal delaying the application. We've got institutes all we've had before, and then it's normal for the hotel manager to laugh at both the state and all of us when she tells us, so I'll appeal, so until it's over, the question is whether or not I'll ever pay. And why are we going back to that old system? Is it someone's vanity? Because what the government has declared, this is completely different. And who does the government essentially plant? If it's here with these cases that have scandalned our public right where it's because of the minor and bizarre amounts where people are, where the bank was a believer, they were left without their real estate if the government was manifested here and especially the minister that won't allow what we support and that's why there was a speculative question of fiduciary now at the big door of re-fiduciation. Whose protection, and who is it used for? Banks. So why do you allow poor people like this, even when in those situations they are believers to collect their demand, I say, as a rule, after a painful trial that is being served again. Never again and very hard and painfully will it be possible to achieve and collect its demand. In 2003, the same author also made a mockery of the institute and transferred it to public notebooks. However, it was not possible to give up so much and reintroduce itself, but we lost two years, or a full year, to transfer these files to public notebooks and these are subject to credible documents. But why go so modest and unambitious when it is an absolutely equipped service that can meet and meet many needs and speed up and relieve the judiciary. It's a huge number, most of the cases aren't even so much litigation. And why do litigation take so long? Because courts deal with land-marking things and do most of the work again. And it's not 100,000 items, there's over 250 thousand of them two years ago, now there's even more of them based on credible documents. Why do we not listen to the Council of Ministers' Directive of the European Union which has been heard by all countries in transition, and many have listened to that which today's full members have disbursed their judiciary with unnecessary things that are not a trial. However, as this proposal once again opens, the question that the exercise has and apart from formal ones, so that it is not only a procedure which is very dangerous but that it also regulates a material and legal relationship, a material and legal relationship between parties has discussed the court and the exercise if we accept such a concept can and must serve only that the believer comes to his demand as soon as possible. But if the relationship between creditors and debtors is relativised here again in the law, and already in Article 1(2), we say that these changes are regulated and material and legal relations mean we're opening the way for new litigation, a new long-term act, and that's not the point. I must say that these amendments, that this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, is almost impossible for him to find any nomotechnical error, that it is perfectly drawn up and perfectly ineligible or ineffective. And I admit that surely this law that was a significant step, that novel we had in 2003, which the government had never given to live in its fullness, or in those most significant changes, certainly given its novelties and this significant step suffers, and a whole series of maybe do-overs. Why didn't it go to eliminate the indeterminateness, the misunderstanding that eventually created that change, that novel in 2003. No, it was important to get everything back to square one, and then we represent ourselves to the public as a revolutionary step forward. A whole series of institutes that we welcome who was there in that novel we have now and here, but very shyly until the basic concept has given up and that's something that's incorrigible. We have here the Institute again public, it's something that contained that law. Therefore, nothing is introduced by this law but prescribed in 2003. Therefore, public commissions of the store but until it comes to life, why not use what made it possible for the current novels to do the same, because it will certainly take a certain time for interested people to report to the concession to do these jobs. FINA is fully equipped for such things. So at the same time, the list of things doesn't stay with the debtors, which was one of the greatest absurdities of the executive law, but that the court preys and buys these things and that they are carried away by FINA or later by commission concessionaries. So I don't see why it gave up when it wasn't here, there's no reason. If we look at certain provisions, you will see an appeal delaying the execution. The complaint was made on the news in 2003, it was an exception and here is the rule again. And we have an institute and an objection. It is incorrect that it is argued in the argument that, under the existence of the Law, it is precisely possible to delay the proceedings or to delay the enforcement. It's just not true. Neither such research was conducted nor could it be so. Because at the end of the day, one of the authors and this and the one who criticized the earlier novel also said: "The performance of the existing one since 2003 will no longer be possible to postpone." That was the point. That was the goal. It's something that if we gave up on that concept then we'd be doing some minor changes as a probative list. So please, there's nothing a debtor doesn't make up. Debtants, especially those who are obliged to pay alimony, those in this crisis when it is very difficult to get to work they quit just so the believer, their own child wouldn't charge. Is it not illusory to expect of the debtors that he should give a list of his own possessions? He can only list that he sold it all, that he transferred any legal work to another person or third party. And this law makes it possible. I will now return to it again, which is something that European law very carefully applies, or "fiduci" in this form has only Germany with an even greater limit. France and other countries don't know him at all. England has it. He's got America. So if we've given ourselves up, and obviously this isn't the case now. Now this can no longer be considered a case because a whole series of laws are passed in favour of those who are otherwise strong in front of the state. Those who are weak to them are strong and vice versa. Don't we all have any concerns about this situation he reports, the Croatian Council of Competitiveness also reports that the situation in the judiciary has deteriorated. It's gotten worse, one of the reasons is just a huge number of objects. Although the judges have solved a number of cases this year, an even larger number is arriving. So what's in the announced further reform probably of the Finnish model to think about is that we have too many courts and too many judges on the population, and we're not talking about how many we have, how many cases we have. The President of the Supreme Court, Mr Crnic, also spoke of it. Therefore, every judge can solve only a certain number of cases, no matter how hard I try in this regard, I welcome all the actions of the Ministry to be disciplined. If one can solve so many numbers, why not the other judge? However, it is essential to relieve the judiciary of cases other than trial. Nowhere in the world. Nowhere in Europe, the execution is not a trial. We don't have it. And again, with this bill of law, we're turning it into an extra trial. Isn't that enough for us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40010	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40011	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government! The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law and in that part of course the amendments that followed after the debate on the draft rules in the first reading and the most important or, or two basic amendments, come down to the following. Therefore, the first amendment of course refers to the eradication of the provision of Article 3 of the proposed amendments, which reads that "when a fine is imposed by law, the determined costs of the procedure or the disbursement of the property benefit or other investigations shall have to be charged in favour of the budget of the Republic of Croatia or for the benefit of another legal person represented by the State's attorney under the law, the State's attorney shall, under official duty, initiate an executive procedure for the collection of these claims on behalf of the Republic of Croatia or of another legal person represented by law. In view of the same observations and the acceptable reasons that are finally brought down that these proposed legal solutions would result not only in a high burden on the State's attorneys defined of course in Article 124. The Constitution as independent and independent judicial bodies. Therefore, those who, under the law, have the primary function of processing the perpetrators of criminal offences would already be cumbersome in this respect, and the legal solutions themselves would not justify their purpose in this regard. The provision left out as a proposal was in the first reading, therefore, if the person to whom the fine was imposed does not pay that penalty within the time limit set by the court for payment and the fines will be initiated by the State Attorney's Office on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by a special enforcement procedure. If, even during such an enforcement procedure, it is established that the natural person to whom the fine has been imposed has no property from which the sentence could be forced to be charged, or that the proceedings would continue for a long time with an uncertain outcome, the court which imposed the fine will replace it on a proposal from the State Attorney's Office by a prison sentence under criminal law to replace the fine with a prison sentence. The total number of prison sentences which, in a person who has been replaced with fines, cannot be prevented in the same procedure for 6 months if this Law therefore does not specify otherwise. Finally, by giving up these legal solutions, we find the procedure of enforcement in relation to other executive law institutes and in the sense that other legal provisions do not lose to their quality, and the justification of such a solution is also found in the fact that the State's attorneys are not so able to notice equipped or teamed up that at this moment I am talking about the situation found today to take the procedures of the exercise as this proposal has been elaborated. Furthermore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports all those legal solutions that remained in the final version of the law in question, which primarily affirm the principle of protection of creditors. So I repeat the principle of protection of creditors in the executive procedure as well as the principle of transparency of the debtor's assets. We have paid particular attention to those solutions or solutions in Article 61 concerning the position of workers as a certification officer in the executive procedure and to the proposal to define the same as the creditors by law as a priority executive. It is justified that the one who has a real right should have an advantage over another who does not have a right because ultimately not only would this mean a loss in a certain sense and a credit ability, but the real rights would become a mildly expressed right that could not be legally achieved by carrying out a bankruptcy procedure. The proposed solution also protects all those believers who have acquired their right to order forced collection of their claims, and what absolutely needs to be pointed out is that the criterion of protection is objective, therefore equal to all because indeed everyone has the right to judicial protection in this respect of their rights. However, due to the specific position of employees and in the work process itself, and mainly as a believer and after the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, it should be stressed that workers as creditors are legally in the same situation as other creditors and that in the process before the bankruptcy procedure is opened, so I repeat before the opening of bankruptcy rights their rights and obligations must be resolved in any case, because these problems that arise in the executive procedure as a worker, monetary claims were made in a time frame long before, long before and hence in that procedure before a legal solution, the opening of bankruptcy proceedings should be absolutely in a legal manner and resolved. Furthermore, as regards the principle of transparency of assets of debtors, i.e. legal solutions provided for in Article 16b. of the final proposal, it should also be pointed out on this occasion that this solution should indeed contribute to the effectiveness of the implementation as well as to the transparency and facilitating of the acquisition of information on the property of the perpetrators and in order to seek enforcement. Therefore, both the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the Ministry of the Interior and the Financial Agency and the Executive Officer's debtor are obliged under that provision, so within eight days at the request of the person who claims to initiate the executive procedure or the guarantee procedure, to provide information on the property which would be subject to the exercise itself in the started enforcement procedure. What I would absolutely like to stress in the follow-up of the presentation on behalf of the Club is that they are the executive law institutes or those legal provisions that we have highlighted in the first reading as very important, as a quality, as improvements in terms of implementation of the executive procedure and which, ultimately, mean not only the quality of the executive norms, but should also result in a reduction in the number of executives, the flow of the exercise and that the exercise really in the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia is what the desire and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, therefore the legislator of the law. Therefore, that the exercise should be the ultimate means to contribute to the execution in the first instance of judicial power decisions and not only to the number of cases recorded in courts as such, but not to the extent that it is not, in the sense of the application of the law of the Institute of Executive Law, to this extent, being apostrophyd as a problem as it is today. So, I'm stressing first. By prescribing the enforcement of first-degree court decisions requiring payment of demand, whose principalities do not exceed 1000 and 5000 kuna respectively. Under the other one. The establishment of property eyewitnesses sold in the executive procedure as an institute should contribute to the acceleration and costing of this form of enforcement. Then, we stress all of that or those legal provisions relating to the performance over movements as important quality legal solutions or quality legal solutions in the executive system, and as an important paper, we also see the introduction of specific assumptions for the establishment of the organisation of the work of commission stores special arrangement of the performance over motor vehicles, as well as the extension of the application of the Bianco Institute in debt. It shall also be simplified to carry out intermediations in the account of legal persons and shall be prescribed to participate public notaries in the executive procedure in such a way as to determine the implementation on the basis of credible documents, to deliver performance solutions and to put in the necessary and enforceable clauses. Speaking of public notaries, it is of course necessary to note that the possibility is opened that, on the basis of the decision of the public notary on the basis of the authentic document, both the banks and employers are directly carried out without the involvement of the court, the public notaries. Namely, it is prescribed that a judicial exercise of the order may be required on the basis of public records of the performance. Finally, all proposed legal solutions as well as these amendments that were or followed after the first reading to the final draft of the law, the Croatian Democratic Community's club estimates as a quality shift within the framework of the executive system which, by adopting this law and its application, will also result in a reduced number of cases in practice and, of course, a reduction in the duration of the executive procedure and that the exercise will take place in the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia just as defined by the Constitution and our laws. Finally, there was a small change from the first reading, and this is article 217 of the proposed law. So, which regulates that article. The item first regulates the method of determining the court penalty as a special means of enforcement. In fact, it is now proposed that the determination of the court penalty be made independent of the rules of mandatory law. In other words, there was a release of a formulation within the meaning of the rules on mandatory relations which were thus an integral part of the judicial penalty institute that was prescribed in the executive procedure. Of course, in this respect, all those arguments were also accepted, in particular, in the application of this institute in practice, which indicate that such an amendment or release of this formulation should also be accepted and, of course, it will make it easier not only to resolve specific subjects but also to make the procedure of enforcement more effective. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act. It is estimated that this is another one that can be so freely stated in a series of regulations, norms that in this collage of judicial or judicial regulations directly refer to the regulation of the judiciary are one mosaic that will absolutely contribute to all these efforts by the Government and the Resord Ministry for a more efficient, quality system in this particular situation. So, the executive system but ultimately the judiciary as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40012	Thank you. The word on behalf of the HSS Club has a distinguished representative, Josip Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40013	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Kramaric, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. A joke aside, Mr. Assistant Minister. In fact, when reading this law, I must really say on behalf of the HSS Club a few principles, but several clear and concrete remarks, and I would not agree with my colleague Anticevic if the law did not have those nomotechnical deficiencies. There are, but simply these are such shortcomings which are not good to see in the law, but which will not question the application of this law that can be like this or like this. In the end, that's how we might not have expected it. First of all, it is important to say for this law, that this law is such that the minister in charge will have to bring a series of sublegal acts after it. I don't mind sublegal acts, but the fact is that after this law, a series of mechanisms need to be established to ensure its implementation. I don't just mean public commissioners, I mean a series of other mechanisms. The second feature of this law is that this law and here I agree with Madam Secretary of State, will have to provide quality mechanisms for the control of work not only of the courts in that administrative part of the word when I think of the Ministry of Justice but also of all other factors involved in its implementation, above all I think of the public notebooks and above all I think of the Commissioners and here I agree with Madam Secretary of State. This will certainly, this law will certainly work in large cities, I am absolutely sure of it because the market is such that it will quickly work the real estate market, and you know that the movable market, and it will be a good job for someone, so that's even good, above all I think about the commissioners, but I'm afraid for his remarks in smaller places. The fact is, it'll be harder to work there. The other thing I'm trying to say is, I'm always repeating that remark, so I'm going to say it this time. When we have some institutes that are questionable legal validity for which we all know that we are not quite sure whether they fit the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, then such mechanisms should be avoided or should be prescribed as rarely as possible, I mean the specific institution of fiduciation. Exactly, counterpart Anticevic said that very few countries in Europe have the institute that it is very rarely used. Unfortunately, we have applied the institute a little bit, so we haven't done it again, so here we are now re-applying it even though the institute is not quite clear, it is not clear whether it is constitutionally in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and I am not really too often used. The third thing when the laws are written is very important to bring the norms in line with both the content and the formality with the basic laws that prescribe certain institutes. I mean, first of all, the acquisition of a hostage right on the move. The law on ownership and other real rights prescribes exactly what it is, the right to move, who can acquire it, and how it is acquired. It is not good for this law to modify this way a little, so it is written differently as to what is the right to move when the believer acquires it, or whether he acquires it at the moment when the commissioner has it, etc. etc. This is the questionable legal validity of such a provision and I think you should look at it before the law is referred to another reading. What I want to say further is what is the feature of this law. You know, we all stand on the principle that indeed a state, and all other believers must be equal in front of all the laws. It seems to me that this law of the state is a little privileged as a believer. That's not good. The state must not be in any sense a privileged believer. You know, we were recently witnessing a case where because of certain credentials, I don't want to name them now, which were the credentials, were they banks when mandatory interpretations of the law were passed, so we were changing some laws because of the pressure of some lobbies, I don't think that's good. I don't think it's good that the state in this law is considered a privileged believer, and by the way it should check both what and when and how the State's attorney of the Republic of Croatia should perform when it is prescribed in its basic law who is representing him when and when it is necessary to prescribe in this law. It's the same thing to look at. Third thing, public notebooks. Public records in the Republic of Croatia have existed since 1995. I remember when public records were introduced, then we swore together that we'd relieve the courts, that the public notebooks wouldn't be the only ones who would verify the signatures of the parties and, ultimately, we had municipal offices for the general administration that did it well. The work of public notebooks should not have been an essential part of their work, but it was a matter of dissipating public notebooks primarily in desert cases in matters of activity. It seems to me that we didn't relieve them, that we didn't disburse the courts, regardless of what we did and did before the public records, so we took them away, so now we give them again. I'm afraid, as two years ago, that even now public notation in the Republic of Croatia is not ready for this, but about this. I warned the competent ministry that it would be necessary to bring in a number of sublegal acts and to exercise control in that administrative section done by the ministry. Then I don't like it when the legislator is unprincipled. You know, we've had in the final procedure the non-suspensibility of the appeal, so the appeal didn't delay the action. And now, indeed, this law in one particular article says that the appeal is not suspensive, but if we were to list all those cases where the complaint is suspensive then we would really see that in most cases, and in the end, the rule is created on the basis of a number of cases, then we conclude that the complaint in most cases is a suspended character and I think it's not good again, but in the end and we share it, so we have in some articles, and I'm specifically talking about what Ms. Secretary of State said out of a thousand, or five thousand kunas that the appeal is suspended. I don't see why the appeal would be unsustainable to, or beyond that amount, and before that, it wouldn't be. If that's the rule, then you just have to stay that way. We're destroying the system, breaking the principles, and I don't think that's good. And I still want to say a few concrete remarks. I think from one side, I'm glad that the promoter has accepted several remarks from the HSS Club, and on the other hand, I see that there is something unclear left in the text itself, so I'll warn you about that. We didn't go through with the amendments, of course it doesn't ruin the concept of the whole law, but it's not good to have it in the law. Article 3 has again remained unclear in the case of a new exercise, a new instrument or a particular case, which is why the court has twice reached a solution, and it is not clear why it is simply not considered to be an action under the previous proposal that has been suspended. That's quite practical. At the end of the day, the court will write the first notice to the party in order to then write a solution to the suspension, i.e. a solution to the performance as a third letter in the same case. I don't understand why. Second, paragraph 9 of Article 3. Indeed, the determination of the implementation of the new instrument or of the new subject will be considered an opportunity to evaluate the scope of the judicial work as a new executive. It's not clear why it's written in law, and now I'm going to say two things why I brought this up. First of all, I have to say in public here that most of the work on executives doesn't actually work on judges. They just work as court officers and that's it. Secondly, if it's supposed to be written somewhere, then surely it's not the Law of conduct, the executive law where it's supposed to be written. We have some other laws where the work of the system, the judicial entire system, and the individual judges are valued and we have some sublegal acts under which the ministry works. I don't think it should be written in law. Article 8 is without prejudice to anything, but it is one remark of a purely technical nature and also of a logical nature. The costs of the proceedings initiated by the court under official duty shall be predominant to the Court of Justice of its own resources. The court's taking them over? The court isn't a legal person, it doesn't pay the costs, but it looks more handsome when it says that these costs are taken from the court's budget. It seems more logical and fits somehow in our legal order. The Court of Justice does not have legal personality, does not have its own resources but has the budgetary resources it uses. I think it makes sense that it does. In particular, the thousand, or five thousand kuna, are mentioned in Article 23a. We're selectively principled, I don't think that's good. Why would the complaint be a suspension of a thousand, i.e. five thousand kuna, and until that amount, it would not be suspended. Real jurisdiction, Article 33a. I am opposed to the fact that from law to law, it is prescribed where courts really are and what is their local jurisdiction. If something is written in the Law of Courts, it is not good to copy it into this law. If there are exceptions to that rule, and that law allows it, then the Law of Courts should simply be prescribed here those exceptions and not repeated by the Law of Courts. Article 20 of the proposal for an enforcement which does not contain all the information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be rejected by the Court without calling on the applicant to supplement or correct it. It is a good principle of our procedural legislation, regardless of what law it is that the applicant, the prosecutor, or, etc., is always invited to fix the submission and to be given an appropriate deadline. You know, when in that time someone called the executive doesn't fix the submission, then it's valid to prescribe that the court will reject that submission. It is not good to prescribe that the court itself will reject a plea under the law because of the obvious legal ignorance of the party. It's true, it speeds up the process, but it's not good. In addition, in Article 32 of the caselaw, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Paragraph 3 of the complaint initiating the case referred to by the perpetrator may be based only on the reasons which he pointed out in the complaint in the case referred to in the case. That's just not true. This is contrary to the principles of civil procedural legislation, specifically the Law on litigation. The Prosecutor may always point out in the complaint a number of reasons, but it would be more convenient to prescribe in that paragraph 3 that the Court of Justice will, therefore, appreciate all the reasons why the executive, or the perpetrator, has initiated the litigation procedure and all the reasons set out in the judgment. The prosecutor can't be tied to these reasons alone. He can also, for other reasons, initiate a litigation procedure, and it is a matter of the Court of Justice to appreciate these reasons, of course, in the executive procedure. There are still a number of remarks, however, I will say what I said at the beginning. These are not objections to the nature which would prejudice the application of this Act. The application of this Act may call into question something else, it may question whether or not the ministry's jurisdiction will bring a number of sublegal acts, whether mechanisms will indeed be set up to implement this Act and whether third, whether control, control of the implementation of this Act will be carried out. Whether and when we will train public notebooks in the Republic of Croatia to implement this Act, whether they will be able to do so and whether or not we will establish public commissioners, or persons who will intervene. They are, in the right sense, intermediaries in the application of this Law and how it will all work together. The Croatian Peasant Party Club, of course, wants the executive procedure to be swift, to be of course legal, but also to make sure that each and every one of them can be applied in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40014	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40015	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. What we are discussing here on new legal proposals, amendments and additions to the law, and so on is the problem of the imperfection of legislation. We want to create some "full security" legal system in each of the areas where it will not be possible to manipulate, which will minimise the awareness of personal interests, to the maximum lead to common interests and so on. This opposes the ineffectiveness of a system that makes both the best and the most impermeable law a dead letter on paper. Of course, there are exceptions to every rule. At the HNS-PGS Club, it seems to us that this is one of the exceptions. The legislation in this area moves one big and effective step backwards. Namely, what's this about? In its current form, the Executive Law had the intensities to speed up the performance, speed up the procedure of the exercise, it had the intensities to protect sacred private property. He had the intensities to reduce the burden of the courts. What's going on now? In the already initial articles, Articles 3 and 6 highlight complications that may arise in the implementation process. The implementation procedure opens up the possibility of making the procedure longer, more complicated and complex. By taking over a new asset or subject of the execution, the exercise practically begins from the beginning, which, of course, extends to at least the time limit until then. The Institute of Appeal, which in the current regulation was actually an exception and which was actually applied only in those situations where it was not possible to resolve disagreements and where there were eclicit violations of religious rights, there is a rule here. So the appeal gets weight, gets importance, gets width in Article 6. The Law, in Article 25. The Law, in Article 27. Laws, 28. Law 31. The law. Therefore, not only extends the area, i.e. cases on which it is possible to file a complaint, but also extends the text of the Law itself to a few pages, additional pages by describing cases where it is possible and I guess it is desirable to file a complaint. On the other hand, the Institute of fiduciaryness, therefore, direct charges without any proceedings, without any trial, without anything, which is primarily provided by financial institutions by institutions and similar powerful institutions are once again given not only the right of citizenship but becomes the dominant institute in these relations. What's the score? The result is that the bank and other financial institutions will certainly charge their claims immediately, quickly and directly, in relation to the citizens. Banks owned by those countries where that institute doesn't exist. So, the Austrian banks in Croatia do not have fiduciary contracts with their customers in Austria, but in Croatia they have and they charge them neatly without any problems we help them here. On the other hand, in the relations of individuals, in the relations of citizens, in the relations of Štefa with Jož, the performance becomes if it is not impossible, but it is very complicated. But in order not to paint everything in black tones, there is a novelty in this proposal that should be commended, which things explain. One of them is in Article 9 of the Guarantee only practically in cash, so the believer can only give the guarantee practically in cash or in some securities that is adequate for money, which makes the system more transparent and operational, of course. The duty to provide data on the debtor is extended and includes pension insurance, so if the man in that status and FINA, then all possible bank accounts and similar accounts as well. He who owes must be forced to make his property transparent. As much as it's going to be in practice, it's already a different story. An interesting instrument is set out in Article 13 of the Law on executive documents, i.e. on documents that can be implemented. In addition to the court's solution and the public-booked adequate documents, the document issued by the appropriate chamber is also mentioned, whether it is a crafts or an economical court of honor. I do not understand how the document of one body that is completely outside this system, so outside the judicial system, outside the system that can directly order citizens and legal persons that this document will function as an executive document, so as an instrument which requires that a step be taken. Unfortunately, in our first reading, we had an objection to the current article 61, I don’t know which one was in the first reading and which one was in the religious order. This order has been deleted by workers in procedures where the exercise is carried out over the employer. All those to whom the perpetrator is obliged to support what he says about a particular political one, I have to say politically, I don't know what else he would be like, the position of the promoter and how he looks at the rights of workers, how he looks at the rights of children who will be in that situation and how he looks at the social tensions that Croatia is more and more full every day. I don't know what that's like with the same ministry's proposal to set up an alimony fund. Does this mean that we will establish an alimony fund where an unconscious parent's obligations will be made public, and on the other hand his property will go to a drum on which bankers and others who will, of course, have priority before and above all states which, in order to charge, of course, have not removed, but in the first place, the state collects their taxes, the costs of the commission are charged, and after what is better for another team, if it is not my God. Article 73 also mentions the direct removal of the movement of movable property and the lecture of the executive or third party to the holding. In the current regulation of such assets, movable assets remained with the perpetrators until the end of the procedure. The psychological explanation was that it was a psychologically good move, that the believer would pay his debts to avoid a situation where things were brought to him from the house, which is probably true. However, knowing the practice, I am convinced that in addition to some of the credentials being encouraged to pay in a far greater number of cases, there will be manipulation and practically abductions that the believer will be able to complain about, which the appeal will be able to achieve is the question. All in all, the HNS Club of PGS does not think that these changes that are proposed here are good for protecting the competition in Croatia. We think they're good for privileged, rich and powerful. Because of all this, and especially because workers and abstentions are not in the priority list of implementations, we will not be able to support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40016	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the word has a respected representative, Damir Cain. There's no word. On behalf of the DC Club, HSLS, the LS word has the esteemed representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40017	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The DC and HSLS Club will be the state of this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law. Clearly, if we were to go to the end now if we were to look for different shortcomings in the individual solutions offered here, probably my debate would take longer. However, guided by the basic principle of efficiency and the speed of the executive procedure, we will therefore support this bill. We are aware that the system is often blocked, that there is a kind of uncertainty, that there is often one fear of an entrepreneurial initiative, and that is why we will support this proposal of the Executive Law. The eyes of many today are against the executive law as one last chance to come to a state of order or to collect their claims or to settle all obligations to others as debtors. In particular, I should say to small entrepreneurs, small companies, because as far as I can see in this transition period, the emphasis is placed on these small and undertakings that they actually run this economic mechanism. How he can run that mechanism when he is actually afraid that he will come into a situation like this where he will not be able to collect his claims or fulfil his obligations in that chain toward others. This was about the big one. I agree that first of all the banks are aware of the state of charge and the protection of its interests in lending. They were protected by ex post guarantees and especially when they became, when they entered, when foreign capital actually entered. When we were actually owners, it could have been different ways. Citizens are looking for words and efficiency and protection. The believers also seek protection, for the debtors themselves are also seeking protection. Therefore, believing that these solutions offered here, I will not mention them here now, my colleagues have already pointed out quite a bit that these solutions will move that wheel of efficiency and cut that deadline. In that sense, we will give support to this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40018	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, honourable representative Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40019	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! This proposal on amendments to the Implementing Law is the sixth draft of the Implementing Law adopted in this Croatian Assembly, which in itself says that the enforcement system is not good and that these novels are constantly proposed new partial solutions. It is the attitude of the HSP Club to instead of such patches where even skilled lawyers no longer see where the cloth is, and where the patch before the Croatian Parliament should come a regulation that represents legal codification with the basic properties of continuity and legal certainty around this matter. And this legal certainty, as you yourself know, is a fundamental feature of legal certainty and legal certainty, as well as a fundamental, foundation of the rule of law. That's what we're from when it comes to executive law very far away. With us it continues with the rather sloppy normative-legal arrangements of this area where the only constants are the amendments to the law. Furthermore, the absurdity is also an interesting fact that individual items that regulate this Law are longer than regulations. So you have in courts a large number of cases during which this Law has already changed 5.6 times. So the subject lasts longer than 3, 4 novels of the same law. The reason for the amendment of the Executive Act as well as the earlier amendments and additions is of course mainly aimed at strengthening the position of creditors in the executive procedure in a way that simplifies the procedure and insurance as quickly and efficiently as possible to collect the demand of the executive. Indirectly, it would also affect the reduction of the number of different court proceedings, and that's good intensities and these novels. Yet, such an intention is presented to us by all the promoters of all the changes and additions so far. Of course, the 6, 5, and this 6th novel, have not released the courts or increased the efficiency of the proceedings and there has been a question of constitutionality in many provisions, I recall only the questions of restrictions on the right to appeal and the role of public notebooks that was discussed during the first reading of this Law. The common tendency of all amendments and additions that are now becoming clearly recognizable in particular in Article 14 of this final proposal is an even more unfavourable position of small debtors, i.e. small debtors, this means most ordinary Croatian citizens. As small and small for them, the spider of the executive justice system becomes as impenetrable as the wall, while the great debtors will continue to pass through that spider without a problem. It's getting sharper at small amounts. The appeal will not delay the exercise in the demand of 1000 kuna for natural persons and 5000 kuna for legal persons. In the light of this proposal, it is stated that the forced payment of these amounts will not significantly jeopardise the existence of the debtor or the business of the legal person because it is not about large amounts. However, ladies and gentlemen, for most citizens, 1000 kuna is a great expense, and they will especially feel it if they are late to pay for, say, utility services, so here it will be easier to say to some pensioner that we read daily on a daily basis, with a charge for unpaid, say, electricity, and it has a pension of as much or less as it requires to be charged. As the court costs rise, interest increases, and other costs of court proceedings rise like those of fairy tales. The following events necessarily require us, following such an event, we necessarily conclude that so far the parties in power heroically lead their people into debt slavery. After we know what transformations and privatisations of social enterprises and foreign takeover of banks by Croatian citizens are imposed high prices of basic living needs and small incomes. In doing so, they have been able to sell of course family silver or real estate and meet their basic living needs by borrowing that are in our terms to sell future work to lenders. In such conditions, it is very likely that most citizens may sooner or later become in a situation that they cannot meet all the current basic needs of life. Then, unless it pays for electricity or any war on loans, the rule of law will ruthlessly show its sharp legal teeth through an effective executive procedure. So this bill could really be effective, fast and effective in a way that the rich become even richer and poorer. On the other hand, it should be asked what is the government's activity and what regulations it seeks to ensure to citizens that all costs of a European man at the beginning of the 21st century such as directors, monthly baskets, groceries, housing loans, car credit and other necessary costs can be paid on average. In the countries of Western Europe this is also possible for foreigners who do the lowest manual work. In Croatia, of course, not those with the highest level of expertise. Our government allows some believers to place their resources and services at the most expensive prices and at the lowest risk. In this respect, knowing the statistical probability that a large number of citizens will not be able to meet these commitments and that in the next period many will be financially broken down by the cumulation of credit liabilities. So the government runs like any true servant to protect the believers as best as possible. Changes and additions shall ensure, among other things, that property can be sold easily by debtors, but also by mobile cars, for example. So in addition to possible but questionable improvements in this novel of the Executive Law for most Croatian citizens, this novel poses another threat that enables their authority to know that they are silent, listen without discussion and repay their debts. Just as our countryman is officially silent, listening and expensively repaying his debts to an international clientele. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40020	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40021	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs! Well, the least I can say about the final bill is that each government is building a state towards itself. Or any government regarding this law can be said to be building a state towards itself. If that's the point, it can be supported, it can support the adoption of this law. If the purpose of making the state more effective and it could be in favour of this Law, but if the objective of building a fair state, then this Law suffers a serious complaint. If the proposer could provide us with information and an analysis of how many executives relating to the performance of 1,000 to 5000 kuna, and this Law provides that there is no other degree and appeal of enforcement in cases from 1000 to 5000 kuna, then I could say that this State is socially insensitive. I am sure that this analysis would show that the thousands-and-five thousand kuna execution is the most numerous and that it refers to those who have a deficit in the current account because they cannot pay their commitment monthly. That it applies to those who cannot pay the electricity, so public companies, after a short procedure, are making executive documents, and then according to such a shortened procedure, the executive documents are even quickly resolved by the court, which is even worse for our citizens, or that companies are renting payment orders to lawyers. If we remember what the Institute of fiduciation was used in the Croatian way of conversion and privatisation, then it was really reasonable during the period when the accumulation was carried out, as it is called, the initial accumulation of capital to leave the institution of fiduciary as a means of insurance because it was most often played to the harm of the weaker and to the harm of the state. I could say anything like this. Both amendments and additions to the implementing law of the previous and amendments to this law have been done by the proposing, expert groups, and this law for two years, the final draft of the law eliminates what has been amended and complemented two years ago. Either these expert groups outside our system, outside the state, so they have insight into the theory of law, they don't care what the real situation in our country is, or those that were proposed two years ago to remove the Institute of fiduciary assets were from another country as well as the proposal to carry out thousands and five thousand kunas without the right to appeal practically. All of this further strengthens that such an important law is changing very often. So there's no legal certainty and it's all about traffic, legal traffic, no security about how jobs are going to end under what law and we're talking about building a system that will be competitive in the European Union. I simply think that one time we need to know, we need to know that legal certainty is important to the legal stability of the law as well as to the previous law that we have discussed, it seemed that for all the misfortunes in this society, the public administration is guilty of public administration, and the laws that we bring to the Parliament and that which we bring to the stand by the machine, and often the opposite, and therefore I have to say really embarrassingly surprised when such important institutes of law as the exercise go every two years from plus to minus, from fiduciation as a very important legal institute in the protection of religious rights to the fact that the exercise will be done with the public notary or that the execution will work in the court of notaries, scribes or court officials. I think it is to the detriment of the legal system, and most of all, to the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those who live from their work, and it seems that in the Republic of Croatia, there is less and less, so this law is in favour of the rich and he is probably well welcomed, but I will not vote for such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40022	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic. He's not in the hall. The word has an esteemed representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40023	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. It's already said a lot about this law and arguments in his favor, and the arguments are actually against the law. What is certainly not doubtful is that indeed one impression of the functioning of the judiciary in our country is not positive not only that this impression is not positive but simply not the figures that are valid are not positive. A whole host of unsolved cases, each of these objects means some unfulfilled right, some unprotected interest, and that's what's actually frustrating all citizens and what's tearing down trust in the justice system. This is the final phase of a court procedure which simply must be effective and which must be effective. It follows after many years of long-term litigation, after years of expensive trial and when it comes to enforcement, indeed it would have to be effective that man after he invested money, after he invested funds in all that trial could in that exercise and achieve his demand. But is that how it is with us? Unfortunately, it really isn't. On the one hand, it is not due to the mechanisms that we now have in the law where it is possible to postpone the exercise, so it is possible for various procedural institutions to slow down all of this, and on the other hand, honestly speaking it is ineffective and because of the poor debtors we actually have in the market, because all of these little items that are being run for non-payment of electricity, do TV subscription and such things come to people in the house and according to the applicable law, and ultimately the court perpetrator has nothing to write down because he doesn't really have anything in the house. These are some of the facts that are clearly existing today, and that is why the law really needs to be changed, some new institutes need to be introduced, and I don't think this is a bad paper that is being introduced by this law. Whether the execution will be faster, whether it will be better, whether it will be more efficient and optimism we can base on several settings. The first is that we have now given one public property to our debtors, we have allowed the believer to come uninterruptedly to some state institutions such as the Ministry of Internal Affairs, such as FINA, if, as is the Pension Service, to check whether the debtor is receiving a salary, whether he is receiving a pension, to see if he is the owner of a motor vehicle, and if we know all these facts from then on, we will be able to run the performance in a certain direction and we will not actually be wandering in that business. Let's go one way and get to a certain stage of the process and then we see that the vehicle we're on isn't actually owned by our debtor, but he's just driving it, but it's a total fifth. Now here, in fact, these amendments to the law suggest that these institutions are obliged to give such information to the debtor, the believer before the start of the dispute. That means it's one thing that matters. Also, this exercise, which we have debated a lot on the Committee on Justice, concerns the exercise of the judgment before its power of attorney. That means they're objects to the value of a thousand and five thousand kuna, I think that's a good thing. These are small objects that actually choke the judiciary, which actually create unnecessary objects and activate that set-up and the judicial apparatus. I think that there will actually be a payment of those obligations, which is better at the end and for the debtor not to have interest all the time in the appeal procedure, so that he doesn't have those costs. I don't think that's a bad solution either. As far as the public notary is concerned, there will certainly be a large part of the cases that are now in the courts to be dropped because the public notary will have the authority to issue a decision on the matter. If there is no objection, it will become final and will give an executive clause, and with such a solution, the believer will be able to further through these institutions actually ask for the execution to be initiated. Also, this movement-related exercise here is now proposing that this movement be immediately excluded from the ownership of the debtor itself, which could also lead to the actual payment long before many institutes have invested so far to actually delay that performance. So there are a number of these improvements that should lead to a faster, more efficient performance, then also a reduction in the number of cases, to the burden of our courts. It means that courts deal with those more complex, complex objects, which is basically their role. As far as fiduciaries themselves are concerned, we introduced 95 or 96, which is one more quality form of protection of creditors than mortgages. That's unequivocal. There are certain doubts here that this is for the benefit of the banks. The law must not benefit any group, nor in favour of banks, nor in favour of anyone. He must be the same for everyone. He has to protect the believer and when it's a bank and a believer when it's Stef, Janko or Marco, but as far as fiduciary matters are concerned, I think people need to be small and educated because it seems to me that there's one culture or culture of a second-hand debt where people come into loans, where people come into guarantees without having a quality view of the situation they're in. Look, with us, the issue of guarantee is no more an economic relationship where whoever becomes a guarantee needs to look at all aspects of that contract that he enters than it is a matter of mates, godparents, relatives, neighborhoods, and you can't refuse a neighbor to be a guarantee. After a few years, however, you get paid for all the things that this neighbor might have gone through, gambled or something. Now, that's what we have to do as we did on TV, so it said, "When you're drinking, don't drive," so maybe you should do one "When you're drinking, don't sign guarantee contracts or don't sign credit agreements." People have to be aware of what they're signing. Also, I'd agree and there's an impression because really in the business of these various companies, one behavior is quite offensive. Commercial companies operate, work a certain number of years, then enter a blockade, no one in that blockade respects those legal deadlines and the law acquired, so of course the president of the administration does not open up bankruptcy within the time limit when it is legally due but simply opens a new firm in the name of someone else or a third. This company is consciously left in a blockade, the creditors no longer have a place to settle, and the other firm is actually with the same people only under some other names neatly working, neatly doing it all. Now, I think the state is really a little thin, but it's not a matter of law enforcement, it's a matter of some other bodies. It's a matter of ours and the police and these other institutions that deal with it. I will support these amendments to the law. I believe that these elements that I have listed give a certain hope, primarily that the performance will become more efficient and faster, and the second that our courts will actually be relieved, which is very, very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40024	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40025	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! Since the promoter has no hearing for disproved in protest and support for dissuaded workers, Croatian citizens who lost all their assets by interest and interest in interest and again by giving opportunity to those who robbed this country so that they can get to the property of the disbursed for the rest of the time I will remain silent. /The noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40026	Here you go, buddy! Can I listen to my colleagues and colleagues in peace and allow them to speak? /The noise in the hall. Here you go, buddy! /The noise in the hall. Okay, so the MP can use his time and keep his mouth shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40027	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40028	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 15th session with the following points: - Proposal for a Decision deeming the President of the Republic of Croatia, Stjepan Mesic. Second, the proposal for a declaration of support, the Croatian-Hungarian candidacy for the organisation of the European football championship UEFA Euro in 2012. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of any of the proposed points in the agenda? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established. Replications can hardly be approved since you have nothing to replicate on. You can't replicate in silence. And if we were to introduce a replica by silence on the replica, that would be a little too much. ... Yes, silences are the most eloquent. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40029	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Amendments and additions to the Executive Act have caused great interest in legal and economic circles both in Croatia and in my environment. And although I am the only person, the only one who will try to say something about this Law, which is not a legal profession, and then, in short, I would make remarks that I have come to by talking and consulting with people who are special and who live from it. My personal assessment that the proposed amendments and additions to the executive law that are before us should make the law simpler, more efficient, relieve the courts and make transparency when it comes to the property of the debtors in the process of implementation. Please allow me to make the basic remarks according to certain articles. First of all, according to Article 12 of the amendment and the addition of the Law itself. It is also mentioned by the Financial Agency as the only institution that is obliged to give a state of mind when it comes to business entities, when it comes to accounts through which business is carried out. But I don't think that's a good solution. In fact, the Financial Agency has knowledge of the accounts of business entities only if the business entity has an account in the FINA, or if the bank dealing with payment transactions is also carrying out through the FINA. But since this is not necessary, that all banks do business through FINA, for a high percentage of the executives, business accounts and foreign exchange accounts cannot be determined, and in the case of companies selling their goods, their services on the market. I therefore believe that it should have been added in Article 3(6)b, which is added "and other legal persons engaged in payment transactions". However, by speaking and consulting, I can say that the most objections under this Law that were ahead of us were to be amended and complemented in Article 84, which adds this article to Article 180a, and it is estimated that these amendments and additions that are ahead of us would cause a lot of dilemmas and problems for the executives. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Many lawyers, many economists believe that this is not a good solution and that in some ways this Law will make things worse. Namely, what's this about? At a certain point, at a certain point, the executive may be settled at 70, 80% of the amount, and it remains only about 20 or 30% to fully settle through that performance. In this way it is forced, forced to amend the subject of enforcement, which would only further complicate the subject itself and in this direction I have proposed appropriate amendments to paragraph 2., i.e. paragraph 4. And I think that way we'll get better solutions than the suggestions ahead. In any event, it should be possible to leave to the authorising officer the time of the reaction, i.e. the deadline for the modification of the means and the subject matter of the application. Therefore, this should be in the exclusive disposition of the executive without legal consequences when it comes to the performance itself, or the suspension thereof. If these amendments, one amendment, two, were drawn up in this or similar form, I believe that Article 180a, which is added, would appear to be significantly different and would be in favour of the executive. Intensities are certainly suggested that time be reduced, but I think that in the way in which this is conceived and proposed by the basis of the article to be added, I repeat Article 180a, that it will not be solved well. Here, passing on in some way the thinking of people from the legal profession, but also from economics I tried to present myself, to make my small contribution to making this Law that is before us, amending and supplementing the law to be as high-quality as possible and made up as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40030	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40031	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honored representatives of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, I am still under the impression of the historic speech of my colleague Kovacevic, who has shown that despite this national sensitivity, he is extremely and socially sensitive, but since it is almost impossible to repeat this speech, let me say a few of my own remarks on the draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law. If you start taking a title like this, and if a man who wants to be well-intentioned and says the Law on Amendments and Supplements, then you show one fundamental uncertainty, the instability of our legal system. Indeed, since this Law was passed sometime in 2003, it has not been two years, and we need to re-change and supplement the new provisions of the 2003 Implementing Law. It actually shows that what was designed two years ago was not to withstand a reality check. And we don't think that's good, that our legislator should be as psychic and eloquent as colleague Pero Kovacevic. The main features of this draft proposal that are today ahead of us in June 2005 are to return to the solutions that existed before 2003. According to these changes, the perpetrator, the debtor compared to the believer, is put in a more favourable position once again to the perpetrator. But what bothers us again is not all forms of regulation of the debtor-religious relationship, a way that would allow the believer to pay his debt more effectively without putting the debtor in a procedurally privileged position. But as usual, this afternoon pretty much it and the negative objects in this law were said I will say in my own name some things that I think we should still say hello. What's good at this, this draft bill, is the introduction of special commission stores for moving things that will be seized by debtors. And this is placed in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which gives consent to the opening of such shops, which is certainly better than the solution that was previously in the jurisdiction of FINA. We think that, at least I think it'll lead to the real sale of confiscated things and that the real estate business will finally become more effective. Furthermore, the possibility of a direct enforcement on the bank’s account, i.e. on permanent income from the employer and on the... the institution because the believer will no longer have to wait for the activity of otherwise overcrowded courts but will be able to make his own payment to those legal persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also to welcome the new regulation of the Institute of fiducial property which is being restored to the 1996 Implementing Law. We could now ask why this, why we left this institute in a way that returns the possibility that a fiduciary owner would give a statement that in case the debtor did not pay the debt, the property actually committed to fiducial property. This brings the Institute closer to the US Institute of Mordgade and thus enables foreign investors to return loans in a relatively simple way unless the party with whom they are in a legal relationship is borrowed. We think that this creates one environment for an active and safer entry and foreign capital into our country. In this way, the courts would also be disbursed because all the work on fiducial ownership was transferred to the authority of the public notebooks and then the fact from 1995 when we established, introduced, introduced public records got some full sense. And the transfer of the delivery of a performance solution based on a credible account ID and similar in the jurisdiction of public notaries, which will certainly speed up the procedure of the application. These are just a few things I say that we think are better solutions, that it will withstand checking, checking these, these practices, but again I say the fact that today we are facing changes and additions doesn't give us the guarantee that,... that the practice, that practice, that we have hit the practice to the end, and that we'll countercipe what's going to happen in the coming time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But without, no matter how otherwise we're destined to live in these rather uncertain and intermittent times, I'm going to give a vote for this Law of Amendments and Supplements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40032	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. You weren't in the hall when you were supposed to speak on behalf of the Club, so one rule of the Rules of Procedure says about this topic, the Club loses its right to speak. And otherwise, the time has elapsed for a ten-minute debate half an hour ago. With my best wishes, I can't let you, can I? But you will, you will have the amendment. Yeah. Please review State Secretary Snježana Bagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40033	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if you'll allow me first to thank you for the nomotechnical quality of this text, which means that the Ministry of Justice is making progress in that section. Of course, though, it is always more important than the beauty of expressions, though it should not be underestimated or ignored because it can lead to great difficulties. The debate highlighted that this Law is an example of the imperfection of legislation. Well, that's what I said in my opening statement, and that's supported by the fact that this law has been changed five times by now. These are now his sixth changes and additions. So yes, the imperfection of legislation is present here, but I don't think either of us is government or the Parliament can say it now. There must be something to be done because the executive procedure as a forced payment of claims and these are, these figures show that it doesn't work. What do we do? If it is that and the laws, that the law itself contributes to this must be changed and this seems to this proposal to amend and supplement the law for the sixth time. In the debate, if there are doubts about whether to access the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules, they require that if less than 1/3 are changed to propose amendments and complements, and therefore these are the sixth amendments and additions, rather than the new Implementing Law. We believe that whatever the sixth amendments and additions are, they are sufficiently transparent and will not affect the quality or create difficulties in applying the law itself, because as I say more importantly, solutions are sufficiently thought out and thought out to be, indeed, to gain success in practice. That's what I'm saying because I already said in advance, before I said these are the sixth changes. So we all had to be careful when they were proposed. That is why two years have passed since the last amendments to these because they really wanted to prepare themselves in quality cooperation in the first place by obtaining opinions and participating in the work of judges, lawyers and others who practice the exercise. What was the most common objection during the debate was that this Law was not social. Or to protect the executives. So that's why I've been asked a question and what's the point of this law? With the risk that I may not be a social one, and Croatia is a social state and government and other institutions confirming this through a series of programmes. I don't think that's the point of an executive procedure. Because let me just remind the debt has already been fixed somewhere. The request has been established during the court proceedings or there is an account that no one disputes that debt exists. Therefore, this claim which could not be voluntarily charged must be carried out in some way and that is the purpose of the executive procedure. It seems to me that sometimes we're all in an ambivalent situation of course respecting these social components that we're trying to achieve? Protecting a debtor or enabling a believer who, to whom did the debt come to collect it? And there is one consensus that the performance must be quick and effective. The purpose of the executive law as a law is to actually achieve it. So to achieve that goal so that the payment of claims can be carried out quickly. So that the archduke on whose side there is this claim is really quick to achieve it. No matter who's in charge. There were a lot of words here about protecting large-scale capital mainly of the bank. I personally wouldn't agree to that. Why? Because regardless of who the executive is, he must be charged. Personally, I must also add that often in the Ministry and in the Government, we receive parties that are not banks. Well, the banks may have other means of insurance, so it's easier for them to make a payment but a craftsman comes, comes a man from a company who's actually made a big one, who's actually made a big debt and who can't spend it. And he can't do business or individuals. On the other hand, the Implementing Law therefore needs to offer effective means to carry out the payment of claims. There's a lot of them. Payment on cash claims, movables, real estate and it imposes in different ways of enforcement. So the funds are different. It depends on who, what the perp will offer at the end of the line, and the executive accepts. Here often mentioned fiducial security search is just one of these mechanisms. And I must point out that it is in its, in its essence, in its being an agreement. The agreement between the creditors and the debtors, the executives and the executives in order to implement the fiduciary insurance and must be implemented in this way. And let me just point out that fiduciary was indeed as it was said here in 1997. That she didn't stop but changed in 2003. That she had entered the acquired rights and could not be implemented, and that is why we are, in some ways, returning to change the solutions of 2003. Likewise, no segment is removed from the right to appeal or to be favored by appeal. She's in the process of appeal, her purpose and content is different because the debt as such is not recommended. The appeal must be put into a situation where the executive procedure itself has been wrong and must enable the perpetrator to protect his right. So the realities of the appeal are different and the appeal often does not have a suspension character. There is, but there is no suspension in these petty claims if I can say from one to five thousand kunas. In addition, there have often been talks about the performance of these claims ranging from 1000 to 5000 kuna. This is about the claim made on the basis of a court ruling. This is not a claim based on the same document, based on an account where there is an objection and where it is a completely different executive procedure. Therefore, this law offers solutions to ensure that an effective procedure is truly ensured. I respect and respect the warnings that must be taken care of... and I must also highlight the task of enabling an effective collection procedure, which was the task of this law, so that practice enables such a single procedure with the necessary retention of certain safeguards that must exist in each system and in the executive and this is also ensured by this law. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40034	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40035	The secretary of state literally said that this law is a note of bene social because the state of Croatia is social. I argue that he is not due to the unnecessary involvement of public notebooks in the procedure of the execution. Article 252(1) provides that the public notary shall be entitled to compensation in accordance with the provisions of the tariff laid down by the clear ministry. How much of these funds might have been best explained by Professor Fleischman. Mihalo Dika, when on the round table of the Public Assembly held in Umag on 5.3.2005, said that if this novel is accepted, public notebooks would generate an annual total income of around 300 million kuna. If it is now known that 246 public notebooks operate in Croatia according to the register of the Public Bookmark Chamber, then it would come out that every public record office would be excluded from the guaranteed revenue of about million and 200 thousand kuna, so if VAT is rejected somewhere, cca million kuna. However, as set out in Article 252b. provided that the party is able to submit a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document to the public notary of its choice and to request them to make a decision on the basis of such a document and, if it is known that the greatest executives, large systems such as HEP, HT, etc., it is possible that only a certain number of public notaries will make a single profit... /The speaker is excluded and re-enabled./... huge manipulations which will then end in court again. We have so much in common that this law is not social. And who shuts me out all the time? It is that it favours only public notaries and that someone systematically opposes these laws to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40036	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we can move on to the vote. We were a little late because some MPs who for subjectively objective reasons didn't have the keys had to make new ones, so they were made. Please engage to determine. Please see the result, let's see how many of us are involved. 97 good to go. We've got first. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law. We have eight amendments and a plate. I ask State Secretary Snježana Bagic to be shown about certain amendments. First amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40038	The government doesn't accept. In this amendment, it is proposed to replace certain words in paragraph 9 of this Article in the applicable text of the Implementing Law. However, that provision, paragraph 9 of Article 16, was repealed by the Constitutional Court decision, so it cannot even be amended, and since it does not accept the first part of that amendment, then there is no need or acceptance of another, which only no-technically edited the text of this Article, so that the first part of that amendment could be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40039	The chairman of the board, Mr. Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40040	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40041	Thank you. Amendment one withdrawn. Second amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40042	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40043	It becomes an integral part of the law. Third. The representative of Jura Bitunjca.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40044	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40045	A brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40046	The Government does not accept the fact that contrary to the amendment proposed in Article 84 of the new proposed Article 84. Amendments and additions to the Executive Act are resolved when it is carried out on demand by account, which is at the moment of delivery of the bank's decision. After that, any further role of the court in the realisation of the payment of claims really ceases. Of course, the bank should inform the court whether there are enough funds in the account to collect the claims, but the bank's obligations also stop there.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40047	Thank you. A representative of Jure Bitunac. Amendment 3 withdrawn. Amendment 4 is also the representative of Jura Bitunjca.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40048	The government doesn't accept. It does not accept it for a reason because it is precisely the way in which it has been streamlining Article 180(4) that it intends and wants to finally achieve the active participation of the authorising officer in the collection of claims. In fact, the deadline of six months until the implementation takes place, i.e. the duration of the decision on the bank's performance, shall be considered as an appropriate deadline after which the execution is suspended. This does not mean, of course, that the superintendent can seek re-evaluation for the payment of cash claims on that account, but he wants to be stimulated when there is no sufficient funds in that account for six months, to eventually seek the payment of his claim in another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40049	A representative of Jure Bitunac. Thank you. Amendment four withdrawn. Fifth, the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40050	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40051	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. The sixth, representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40052	The government doesn't accept. It does not accept it because this amendment, i.e. this proposal, is about a proposal to conclude an insurance agreement on the subject of insurance under that agreement on the provision of demand by transfer of property ownership rights as it is often called fiduciary precisely because such a type of contract needs and must have a stronger legal force. The government does not propose that it be concluded as a sales contract itself where these lists of parties should be certified, but that this type of contract should nevertheless be concluded in the form of a public notation act, which is precisely why it would be given stronger power, so that protection would be stronger, so that when it is concluded before the public notary, the parties would once again be alerted to all the consequences that could result from the conclusion of such a contract or its realisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40053	Thank you. Representative Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40054	I'm saying that it's a very interesting thesis that the contract was concluded by a public notary in this form has stronger legal power than an ordinary contract. It's an interesting novelty. However, I personally think that it is a matter of unnecessarily imposing a large amount of money on the notaries to say so because the tariff is according to the value of the dispute, and it is far more expensive for the parties to participate in such a procedure. And by the way, since it's real estate, a public notary would be involved in a salesman's signature certificate and I don't see that there's any other power there than the financial force for the notebooks. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40055	Thank you. Please engage. We can vote. Score. 43 for, 10 abstentions, 54 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The seventh amendment also includes representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40056	The government doesn't accept. On the contrary, by prescribing the provisions of Article 125, the Government considers that the rights of all in this case will be better protected and the legal certainty of the citizens will be protected. Namely, the consequences of the transitional and final provisions will be removed from the 2003 amendments to the 2003 law that had retroactive effect, feedback.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40057	Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40058	This is also an interesting thesis that when you apply for the right not to apply to you at the time of application but to some new future right, and I think it is a drastic example of incurring to the legal certainty of the citizens, so I ask that it be voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40059	Please, let's get on with it. I'm asking for a result. 45 for, 9 abstentions and 50 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the eighth amendment also includes representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40060	The government doesn't accept. It does not accept with a similar explanation as for Amendment 7. In fact, the proposal to delete Article 103 of the amendment and supplementation of the Executive Act is put outside the scope of the retroactive operation of the fiduciary insurance system introduced by that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40061	Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40062	Again, the question of course is the legal certainty of the citizens I stand for, so I ask again to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40063	Please engage. My colleagues and colleagues, let's have some concentration. Score. 35 for, 12 abstentions and 50 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. I find that with 80 votes for, 2 abstentions and 28 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. We would now move to a little earlier entry point on the agenda - a proposal for a decision deeming the President of the Republic of Croatia, Stjepan Mesic, please Vice-President of the House, Mr Matu Arlovic, to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40065	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. A rare opportunity has been given to a representative in his representative life and to work on behalf of the proposings such as in this case of the Croatian Parliament Presidency, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union, the Croatian People's Party and the Primorje-Goran Alliance, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Democratic Party, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Pensions, the Club of Representatives of the Istrian Democratic Assembly, the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities, the Club of Representatives of the Serbian Democratic Independent Party, the Club of Representatives of the Social Democratic Party, and to be the representative of the proposing decision, which is awarded by the President of the Republic, Stjepan Mesic. Let me remind you that based on Article 2. The Law on Features, recognitions which stipulate that the Croatian Parliament grants the distinction and recognition of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, I would like to remind myself that the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament and the presidents of the parliamentary clubs discussed and proposed a decision at its session of 21 June 2005 to honor the President of the Republic of Croatia, Stjepan Mesic, velared by King Tomislav with Lent and Great Danica and on Statehood Day 25 June 2005. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the president of the Republic of Croatia, Stjepan Mesic, in his former work only during the 90th time of his independence and independence of the independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia, was the president of the Croatian Parliament, he was in several terms a representative of the Croatian Parliament, he was the President of the Croatian Government, the last president of the former common state in which he tried and succeeded as much as he could, allowed all its members to be left alone, in accordance with the decision of the Badinter Commission, without blood spilling and without war, and when the armed conflicts broke out, he tried to alleviate them. I would also like to point out that the President of the Republic of Croatia, Stjepan Mesic, has now been elected second time as President of the Republic and that, in these two terms, citizens of the Republic of Croatia have also shown confidence in Mr Stjepan Mesic and thus this decision of the Croatian Parliament will also be a decision confirming the extraordinary trust and reputation of the President of the Republic that is in the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I must stress that Article 7. The Law on Features and Recognitions provides that the order of King Tomislav and the Great Danica is to be awarded to heads of state, including for their exceptional contribution to the international reputation and position of the Republic of Croatia. Proposers believe that the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stjepan Mesic, made an exceptional contribution to the international reputation and position of the Republic of Croatia by presenting the Republic of Croatia in the world and affirming it as a democratic country that adopts and develops European values and standards and thus strengthens Croatia's path towards Euro-Atlantic integration, both on its international agenda and on the internal agenda, by developing and contributing to the development of democracy and the development of social relations and the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia and by establishing a state of social justice. By believing that, in accordance with the will of the parliamentary clubs, you yourself will support this proposal. I would like to thank you in advance and suggest that we support by consensus the motion for a decision to honour the President of the Republic of Stjepan Mesic with the grand order of King Tomislav and Great Danica for a remarkable contribution to the international reputation and position of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40066	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for this decision in line with the proposal of the clubs. Manual vote. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the decision was made with 78 votes for and 3 abstentions. ... Later. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Applause.]] We are going to - - Proposal for a transport law in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, first reading, P.Z. No. 314 The proposer of the law is the Government. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law; Maritime Affairs, Tourism, Transport and Communications. Please, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr Branko Bačić, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40068	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The establishment of a public transport system in line coastal maritime transport is a fundamental assumption of the general social economic development of the island and its quality design and implementation of the backbones of the demographic restoration of Croatian islands. In addition to this fact, public transport in the coastal maritime transport line, as part of total transport that is extremely important for the development of the Croatian economy, and especially for the functioning of tourism in the Republic of Croatia, has a status of activity of special interest for the Republic of Croatia. The performance of this activity has so far been regulated by 3 laws. So, with the Law on Transport in Public, Linear, Coastal Maritime Transport, which was passed 8 years ago, so in 1997. Next, the Jadrolini Act, which transformed the former state-owned company Jadrolini into a company for the liner shipping of passengers, has been properly organised and legally established since then. And the third law that defined this activity was the Law on Islands, which was passed in 1999 and with its 2002 additions, practically introduced a significant newspaper into this activity, and certainly contributed significantly to the better and better integration of Croatian islands. Therefore, according to these three legal, current laws, the situation in that segment of transport, therefore, the linear, coastal maritime transport is as follows. Today, 46 ferry lines have been established on the Adriatic, of which 21 ferry lines, 14 fast-ships, 7 classic ships and 4 fast-ship lines have been transported over the past year by nearly 10 million passengers and 2 million and 600,000 vehicles. Aside from state lines, therefore, along 46 state lines linking Croatia's islands to the coast, eight more county and local lines were established. This system, therefore, connects 45 of the 49 inhabited Croatian islands with 46 state lines. The 4 are, therefore, two islands of St. Andrija and Mali Srakan in the Kornati, where only 10 inhabitants live. Otherwise, here I am also saying that about 150,000 inhabitants live on Croatian islands, and they are all connected to the system of line coastal maritime transport with the coast, i.e. land. The characteristic of all this traffic is that about 90% of the total passenger transport and transport of the vehicle is carried out by Jadrolini. So she performs 90% of all that passenger traffic today with 54 ships, which, therefore, mainly maintains all these state lines. But other than Jadrolinija, there are 10 boaters on the Croatian Adriatic right now who are also carrying out this line, coastal, maritime transport. The main feature of this line coastal maritime transport in the Republic of Croatia is the fact that the average capacity fill is only 35% for vehicles while for passengers only 16%. In this regard, it may well be mentioned that of the 46 state lines owned by the Ministry of Only 6 lines, we can consider the remaining 40 state lines to be profitable. The Republic of Croatia, in order to cover these non-performing lines from the state budget, is annually segregating around 310 million kuna, which is in fact a subsidy and support to all shipowners so that they can carry out this, therefore, classical ferry or fast-board transport between land and the island. Through the implementation of the laws, so far the Law on Public Line Coastal Transport of the Law on the Adriatic Sea and the Law on Islands, we have identified a series of irregularities, a series of irregularities, a series of inadequate solutions that only create problems, difficulties in the implementation of this Law and in a better maritime connection. That's exactly what besides the fact that we wanted to introduce a market approach in the performance... maritime transport was the basis of the new Law that we are proposing today, so in the first reading of line, coastal and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] maritime traffic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fundamental principles of the Law itself are therefore to encourage further economic development of the island. So that this maritime transport is a function of a better quality life of economic development and demographic restoration of the island. In order to establish the continuity and regularity of the transport and obligations of the shipowners, the continuity and regularity of the transport and transport between the island and the mainland continue to be maintained. That the order of navigation and otherwise the frequency and that public transport are adapted to the needs of the islanders, to define strict lines of importance shared on state, county and local and without overlapping on these lines. Moreover, to define what is considered to be occasional passenger transport, which is considered to be a tour transport, which is considered to be circular travel, which is considered to be passenger transfers, which in the existing laws has been quite unarranged and perhaps the most important practical news of this Act is that a system of public competition is practically introduced on each line, and a concessionary will be determined through a public tender which will be performed, i.e. which will be awarded in such a competition, the possibility of carrying out this transport connection on one of the lines, so whether a county, local or any state line. It is therefore defined that the bodies which establish on the basis of a specific annual programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the transport connection of the island have been established. The Government of the Republic of Croatia determines what state lines these are, the county heads determine what the county lines are, and the city's or municipal heads determine what local lines they are. The law itself provides for conditions that must be met by a single shipowner in order to be able to function at all in public competition applications and therefore to be able to obtain one line which it would then maintain. The first condition that the shipowner must meet is that the company registered in the Republic of Croatia is to carry out exactly that activity, i.e. coastal maritime transport of passengers and goods. The second condition to be met by the shipowner is that the registration list of a ship carrying out public transport is that it is registered as a company in accordance with Article 5(1). A maritime code, which the company defines as a legal person who has taken full responsibility for this shipping venture, which is, in this case, practical in this case, the operation of this maritime transport and the integration of the island with the mainland. The third essential reason, i.e. the condition to be met by the shipowner is that he owns an appropriate ship for carrying out the transport and that the ship is registered in the commercial register of ships of the Republic of Croatia. That a customs procedure has been carried out over that ship and that the ship fulfils the prescribed technical conditions and which technical conditions will be defined by the minister by means of a sublegal act. One of the good parts of this bill is certainly the fact that by its implementation, the government is obliged to adopt one sublegal act and the minister has two additional sublaws so that the law itself can be implemented. So the law is very specific and leaves little opportunity so that the Government or Minister can intervene in this law itself and the legal provisions are well-defined concrete conditions which must satisfy the shipowners in order to be in the system of public coastal maritime transport. Furthermore, a crew member on board this is also one of the conditions must be a Croatian citizen who must have a contract with the shipowner. Also, in order to be able to report to that tender, a replacement ship must be provided within 24 hours or depending on the distance or length of the line, so it must provide for a replacement ship in order to avoid any congestion in the normal connection of the island to the mainland. The optimal time limit for concessions to be given to a single shipowner on state county and local lines depends on the importance of the line, making it the maximum time limit for state lines for ten years, for county eight and for local lines for five years. In doing so, if, during the duration of the concession, a certain shipowner and while he is carrying out that liner of maritime transport, he purchases a new ship, if he invests in a new ship, then clearly proportionate to its investment, it may extend the duration of the concession itself. One of the significant newspapers of this law is the following, therefore, that for the rentable lines will be clear, that the rentable line will be carried out by that shipowner who offers the highest fee for obtaining such a line and that for those non-erable lines the priority will be won by that shipowner who seeks the least support to carry out that activity. Otherwise, the condition and procedure of public competition and the determination of the most favourable concessionaire, as I said before, will determine the Government by a special regulation on the procedure and conditions for granting a concession. The funds for the maintenance of these lines will be provided for state lines in the state budget, for those county lines established by the county head office in the county budget and for local lines established by municipal or city heads in their budgets. It is clear that we need to be aware of the fact that at this point in the Adriatic, in connecting Croatian islands with the mainland, there is a system governed by current laws and this system works well, we think it can do even better, but it still works on the pleasure of the islanders. Therefore, that day is not a short deadline for the implementation of this law. We have assessed that it is an appropriate deadline for its implementation and implementation of this new law which will be passed I hope, for five years and that within five years, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development will gradually proceed to the concession of all the lines after the adoption of all the sublegal acts that follow from this law. This law is and its legal framework effectively provides for further harmonisation of our legislative legislation with the acquiss of the European Union and, in that sense, it is also proposed to the Assembly for adoption. By reason of this law, we have left one doubt which, as the Government and through this parliamentary debate, and until the final text of the bill is reached. It is, in fact, that in the very text of the law we have foreseen that the tasks of the execution of competitions for state lines are carried out by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. However, given that this is a comprehensive business, a more sustainable and professional job of monitoring shipowners, monitoring the quality of the operation and the activity arising from this law, we have held as a possibility, and we have stated that, as an option, the establishment of an agency that would, independently of the work of the administration, be able to implement this law in such a way that as an independent body, the Government implements this law in the sense of monitoring the performance of the contract, the quality of the work done, the necessary completion or inclusion of new shippers on certain lines which do not meet the criteria, which have been implemented by law and sublaw. The setting-up of this agency could also give it other jobs in the area of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, such as establishing maritime goods limits, which are now determined by the Commission, which are representatives of various ministries which are practically involved in establishing, in the process of establishing borders. So, in this sense, as Government until the second reading, until the final reading, we will still come up with a final proposal to define whether these calls for tenders and monitoring of the overall process of carrying out line maritime traffic will be carried out by the Ministry or by a special agency that would be established in that sense. I would just like to say that in the preparation of this law we held two public discussions with all coastal counties, with the association of shipowners "Mare nostrum" in the Republic of Croatia, with regional economic chambers, with the maritime union and all their opinions and suggestions are practically contained in the proposal for this law. Here, in this sense, the law is also in line with the views of the islanders, their representative bodies, with local and regional self-government, which is very important both with representatives of Croatian shipmen and with the maritime union. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40069	Thank you, dear colleague Babic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going first to discuss the club representations. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club, dear colleague Anton Peru. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40070	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary General Babic, colleagues and colleagues! Transporters are generally the vessels of the housewives of every society's development. Investment in all types of roads is necessary if the state wants to develop. When it comes to the Croatian coast and numerous Croatian islands, then our blue highway is our very important road. The most important natural resource of this country is certainly the Adriatic with its coasts and islands but it is our specificity that from over a thousand and 200 islands, islands and cliffs there are only 49 islands that are inhabited and of which, as the secretary of state has said, they are connected to the regular routes of maritime transport. When the islands connected to the mainland are excluded then about 78 thousand inhabitants of our islands are dependent on public-ship transport and this is our Croatian specificity that we must respect, which is why, as we know, this Croatian Parliament has passed the Law on the islands, and that is the only way it was said then for the return of life to the islands. And let me just say right away at the beginning something more concrete to say a little bit later in the follow-up this law that is before us today undoes some of the provisions of the Island Law that were intended to promote life on the islands. Public line coastal transport is certainly an activity of particular interest which has been carried out in the past 60 years less or more successfully, less or more functionally with less or more pleasure of the island population and numerous tourists but without victims. The main transport is carried out by a significant Croatian shipowner Jadrolini, who is state-owned but also by other private Croatian shipmen today. The facts suggest that, as I have already said, 78 thousand inhabitants of the island depend on public shipping, that traffic takes place as said by the secretary of state on 46 lines and that about 300 million kuna is allocated from the state budget for this purpose. The ship's capacity is really low when it comes to passengers about 15% and when it comes to vehicles all around 35% of the transport capacity is filled. Of the 46 permanent shipping lines of all 6 of them, it becomes profitable and the others are being donated from the Budget of either the county or city or municipal. It is pleased to learn that every year the participation of the State budget in the budget of the state ship's Jadrolinija falls and that it is about 40% today. As a whole, the truth from the State budget is not diminished, but is being invested in the renewal of the fleet and here is the other day, from the home runs of Jadrolini, a new ship is being delivered, which means it is investing in the renewal of the fleet, which directly contributes to increasing the quality and safety of public line coastal transport, which should be taken into account in the determination of the future of Jadrolinia, which is something in the explanation only touched. Today we have before us in the first reading of the proposal for a transport law by line and occasional coastal transport. We should see today what are the positive sides of this bill, what are its negative sides and the expected effects and what are the drawbacks and what would be concrete suggestions for its improvement until the second reading? According to the position of the Social Democratic Party Representatives Club, the positive sides of this proposal are: First of all, market principles are introduced in the performance of liner passenger transport through the award of concessions for all shipping lines based on a public tender. Thus, the basic set-up of the existing law under which state shipping lines are held by the state passenger shipman without competition, although it is worth saying, and that even now there is no such strict market closure because, with the leading state shipman Jadrolini in the state line system, other private companies such as the Rape Navigation, the Mediterranean navigation from Korčula and Lošinj sailing from Mali Losinj are doing so for years. Competition is also present now in the state fast-board system. The SDP Club is consistent with its basic definition of the need for market access in the performance of all activities, as well as coastal passenger transport. However, the adoption of this Act should not undermine the quality of services achieved and primarily reach the level of safety in the passenger ship transport in the Adriatic. If the only criterion of decision-making on offers is the level of concession fee on profitable lines or the amount of subsidies requested for non-erable lines, then that risk may be at the expense of the quality and safety of passenger maritime transport. It is clear that there are many factors affecting quality and safety because it is clear that the cost of each line depends not only on traffic but on a number of other factors such as the frequency of connections, the speed of the ship, the age of the ship and other factors that I am not going to list now. Unfortunately, we are witnessing, at the beginning of the wild privatisation process in the sea, the appearance of a number of wild shipmen who have remained tragically affected. Let's just think of an example of the Tomislavgrad ship. We must avoid these situations and, in order to protect the safety of shipping, it is necessary to lay down clear rules on technical conditions that must be met by future concessionaries or by companies and their ships, which Mr. Secretary of State has spoken of because it is not just as I have said the level of concession and support required but also other technical conditions for which ships must meet. Let's just take an example from last Friday that all the media published. You have a case where a concessionary got the Split-Supetar line. It was a little stormy not and the stronger one that was specific to the Adriatic and Adriatic ships were both in these and such conditions because it is known what the Croatian Adriatic is like and what our external islands are like and not to say Lastovo or our specificity that one, one ship can board the entire island population, but the inevitableness of these links is needed. The ships of Jadrolinia were in traffic. Jadrolini has secured additional ships. And the shipowner who got the concession, I don't know how to speak his name, but the media is told "San Marine" from Split simply didn't traffic and in Split there was an insufferable crowd in, within the port, and therefore it's not just these price conditions and the level of concession or support that we should decide to take these specific reasons and think more carefully when we decide the fate of Jadrolinia. In addition, law and regulations should ensure that this activity is carried out exclusively for Croatian companies, and the concept of the company is clearly defined in the Maritime Code not to explain these ships, to employ exclusively Croatian sailors on ships. The other positive side towards us at the SDP Club of this proposal is to comply with the standards that exist in the European Union, which relate to the safety of passenger transport. The third would be the positive side of the long-term reduction in the participation of the state budget and the budget of units of regional and local self-government in financing this segment of transport. The fourth positive side of this bill's proposal in our opinion at the SDP Club is that the competition provided by the law must play what is important for us, for the Adriatic, by respecting standards of safety and protection of human environment. The negative aspects of this bill are, in my opinion, primarily for us at the SDP Club, primarily the lack of a social component to protect the inhabitants of our islands. This Proposal for a Law shall repeal the provisions of Article 10. The laws on islands that speak of transport prices and benefits compared to the inhabitants of our islands. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The proposal for this Act provides that the cost of transport services shall be determined by the shipowner of truth, with the prior consent of the concession provider. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The proposal for a law provides for a concession provider to determine the maximum permitted amount of service price but that does not solve the problems of the inhabitants of our islands. It does not solve the problems of the pensioners, students, students or, for example, medical staff because it abolishes their benefits, and they had these benefits. By law, the Island Law had a clear intensity to encourage the return of the population and the development of the island. If the state wants to stimulate the development of the island, and since this bill abolishes the existing benefits provided for by the Island Act, then we must really clearly define how the communication of islands with land will be facilitated, and how will we enable further development of the island? If, in the light of the bill's proposal, I quote, "The establishment of a public transport system for coastal maritime transport is based on the principles of promoting the economic development of islands and coasts", then we at the SDP Club think that we must in no way derogate to achieve a degree of improvement in the living conditions of islands achieved by the adoption of the Island Act. Otherwise, if other laws were to come to us by this Law, which is before us, we would part with what we have established in the Law of the Islands. Since the number of inhabitants of a particular island group or a certain island group is known in advance, this cost of shipowners could and should be calculated in their concession offer and should be installed by the promoter until the second reading in the Final Bill proposal, according to us. Otherwise, it is concluded that in some ways the state is deviating from the declared principle of island development and that it is in some way raising its hands from its islanders, both elsewhere and amongst them, in which way the proposer will possibly install the proposal for the law of the present case will also depend on the position of the SDP Representatives Club. And what are the indiscretions of this bill on us? The first and large uncertainty is what the proposal for legal text actually does not have. But it's listed in the reasoning of the law that Mr. Bacic, the State Secretary, spoke of. And this is quoted as saying, "There is a commitment to establishing an agency as a non-profit legal person who would conduct a public tender procedure for giving concessions on state lines and making decisions in the first degree," the quote concluded. What does that mean? There is a commitment in politics or in the practice of passing laws in the Croatian Parliament. If there is a commitment then that commitment should have been translated into certain provisions of the law so that today's MPs in this assembly can discuss it. Otherwise, this remains only about the definition and, as we have heard from the State Secretary's presentation, it is possible that this provision is incorporated into the law. In advance, I am saying that if a proposal is decided on one such proposal, that and such an institution or agency, as we will call it, which can be no profit, it should enter a provision on the award of concessions on the maritime good, establishing a marine good catastra for the marine good, and it should only be jobs in preparation for the government, not as there have been some proposals to raise funds in such a way. The second major indetermination of the law by us in the SDP club refers to the statutes of the state shipowner Jadrolinija as the abolition of certain provisions of the Jadrolinija Law also abolishes the monopoly position on the market. The law offers no response to the long-term resolution of the status of Jadrolinija. In any case, Jadrolini must not experience the fate of Croatia Line, for example, from Rijeka and the states with thousands of islands, must really consider whether to privatise a state shipman or keep him in state property, such as that. done by neighbouring state Italy on the other side of the Adriatic. Perhaps Croatia really needs a state shipowner in passenger transport organised as a communal service, but certainly the fate of a state shipman when the time comes must be determined in the Assembly and cannot be a matter of any government's will, or political options. For including this debate, I see that time stands out, basically the law by us can go into another reading, but until the second reading it is necessary to resolve and define what I have through the debate and pointed out, and that is to say in short, defining the possible status of the agency, to be determined at least in principle in relation to the Jadrolini Law, certainly to define and install in the provisions of the law the benefits for certain groups of island populations, to set deadlines that are eligible for existing concessions to remain in force and correct some minor irregularities such as. In Article 43, it seems to me that only the lapus, the journey must be missing and the end of Article 45 and some other members of the existing bill, and what I said will depend on the position of the SDP club in the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40071	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honored counterpart Topic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40072	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary, Mr Bacicu and the respected deputy in the ministry, Captain Babic, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's to this late afternoon few words on behalf of the HDZ Club on this proposal for a transport law in line and occasional coastal transport. A lot of things have already been said here that I agree with in the explanation of the Secretary of State, so I will explain a few things in a few lines, or sentences. The Republic of Croatia is like all of us well-known coastal land which has a long and divorced coast and a large number of inhabited and uninhabited islands. Already a geographical position is determined by the essence of a maritime land worth the heritage of the Mediterranean countries, a circle which our country belongs to large geographically, but also a civilizational part. This proposal for a law on transport in line and occasional coastal transport is before us after a relatively short period of time after the adoption of the new Maritime Code proposed by this very government and this particular ministry. So this current bill is further and desirable legal upgrades in the maritime area and the creation of legal frameworks for faster island and coastal development. As already stated in the proposal for this law, some shortcomings, the indetermination of the applicable law governing the matter of public transport in line coastal maritime transport, namely the Law on public transport in line with coastal maritime transport, the Law on Jadrolinia and the Law on Islands of 2000, should be addressed. The basic setting on which the laws are based is that the lines are classified according to the importance of state, county and local, and are of interest to the Republic of Croatia subsidized from the state budget. Therefore, the difference between the actual costs of maintaining regular lines and incomes that these lines are realising is subsidized. Subsidying is very necessary because, although large budgets are allocated, the state is obliged to ensure that the islands and coasts are connected, i.e. their inhabitants. It is characteristic of our sea-line passenger traffic that it has no even dynamics throughout the year but depends on the season and especially on the tourist season. In the tourist season, the need for more lines and higher capacity of ships is logically expressed while out of season, especially during the winter period, the number of passengers and cars has very little impact on the rentability of individual lines and significant funding from the state budget is needed to maintain the liner maritime transport system. The Secretary of State has already mentioned that they are, for example, for the 2005 State budget, the projected funds of more than €36 million. It's a significant asset. Because out of 46 daily lines connecting passengers and transporting vehicles and goods, only six are rentable. In the system of public coastal maritime transport of passengers, cargo and vehicles, we have three subsystems and can list them: ferry lines intended for the transport of vehicles as well as passengers and cargo, classic shipping lines intended exclusively for the transport of passengers and fast shipping lines which are also exclusively intended for the transport of passengers. All year long transport of passengers and vehicles takes place on 46 lines and on these lines traffic both ferry and fast-ship lines, classic ships that connect as already mentioned these inhabited islands, or our 45 inhabited islands with some 120 thousand inhabitants while on one part of the poorly populated islands are Kornati and some, the island lighthouse with 10 inhabitants of the lines is held occasionally. A few words about our largest and most significant national shiper Jadrolinija Rijeka, which performs 90% of passenger traffic and 75% of vehicle transport through its fleet where the average age is also mentioned, 28 years. 28 years. I think we all heard it right. I don't think it's necessary to point out what new fast-growing technologies mean today's average age of 28-year-old ships. In some areas in the Adriatic, these ships are even older, over 50 years old. It is also said that apart from the Adriatic in our Adriatic, other societies participate in the maintenance of shipping lines so that we can already talk about the start of a competition which certainly contributes to the quality of the island and coast integration. I don't think it's particularly necessary to list these companies, or shipmen for the sake of time. However, after the adoption of the Law on Islands in 2000, other shipping vessels for high-speed shipping should also be included in the public coastal maritime transport system. And now, in short, in a few lines, allow me again and again to highlight the characteristic definitions of the current state of the public-line maritime transport system on the Croatian Adriatic which are determined I repeat through the first, the divorce of our coast and the distance of the island from the mainland. The poor population of our islands, the seasonally unequal need for liner maritime transport, the inability of unfortunately the largest number of lines, the age of the fleet and the pronounced domination of a monopolist shipowner Jadrolini Rijeka, and through it we still need to establish, which is a positive, continuous increase in passenger and vehicle traffic, which naturally contributes to greater profitability, i.e. smaller subsidies from countries to maintain these lines. So in last 2004 Jadrolini had an increase in the number of passengers by 4.7 and carried 3% more vehicles compared to 2003. What is evident is that greater traffic reduces the loss in the business of the national shipowner, which can be attributed to the increasing development of tourism on our islands. Therefore, there is a need to improve coastal transport traffic in order to achieve the important programme objectives of the Croatian government, which is faster resuscitation of the island and the creation of assumptions for the economic development of islands and coasts. This proposal for a law which is the subject of our debate aims to create assumptions that, based on the concession of passenger lines, will extend the market approach and achieve competition in the conduct of public coastal maritime transport. The Institute of Public Competitions shall allow all interested competition rights under established conditions and criteria, in order to potentially engage in the execution, but also to highlight and maintain line maritime transport. The proposal for a law sets out the way in which the concession on lines classified according to the importance and also on the basis of a public tender as well as the conditions to be met by the shipowner. In addition, the Commission notes that the aid is not compatible with the internal market and that the aid is not compatible with the internal market and that the aid is not compatible with the internal market and that the aid is not compatible with the internal market. It is acceptable for shipowners to propose the duration of concessions for individual lines, which are 5 to 10 years for state lines, 3 to 8 years for county and 1 to 5 years for local lines. The Institute of extension of the concession aims to encourage investment and renewal of the fleet. What does that mean? This means that a shipowner, a company that invests in a new water unit, has the advantage of a new ship in the next award of concessions. The advantage of obtaining concessions will also be given to that shipowner, who, in addition to meeting the legal conditions, offers a higher concession fee. In this part, I would also like to say that it is also important to take care of the technical correctness and safety of those ships concerned that maintain those lines, other than these criteria, of the best offer for a particular concession. This proposal provides for the possibility of transferring concessions from one shipowner to another shipowner for the purpose of ensuring continuity in line maintenance. The proposal for this Law also provides for funds for the needs of shipowners to be provided for state lines in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, for county lines in the county budget, and for local lines in the budget of municipalities and cities in which the lines are held. It is good that this proposal provides for a continuous tendering for concessions of a number of national lines in order to concession all lines over the period, which has already been mentioned for 5 years, which guarantees a smooth adjustment of new conditions without disturbances in the functioning of line maritime transport. This proposal distinguishes and defines precisely what permanent maritime transport is and what is occasional maritime traffic. Of course, what is not clear in this Law is also mentioned by colleague Perusko, and that is what Secretary of State Bacic also said, it is the establishment of the agency. And I think it would be necessary to have a clear view of the role and importance of legally defining it as an agency by the next reading. And of course, I also believe that it is necessary and clearer to determine for the Adriatic, the national shipowner on which it is now being waste, and I believe for a long time the greatest burden in maintaining the ship's lines. Of course, as is the new Bill Proposal, the Proposer, the Resorient Ministry has made sure that the norms of this proposed legislative proposal are in line with the applicable legal norms, the legal property of the European Union in this area, which is very positive. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the end, I would like to stress that it is extremely important to adopt this Law because the matter it regulates and the way it regulates has a good influence on reducing the trend of the depopulation of our beautiful islands. It is difficult to advocate demographic restoration on numerous Croatian islands unless we create an optimal transport link between these same islands and the mainland. An adequate transport connection between islands and islands with land, i.e. comprehensive logistics of land creates the island's inhabitants a sense of security, especially in the case of illness and further education of young people. Staying and returning to the islands has always been to a significant extent, proportionately precisely with the possibility or inability to reach land from these same islands in case of any need. The HDZ Club therefore supports the Proposal for this Law and I want to benefit as soon as possible on behalf of the general public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40073	Thank you, dear colleague Topic. On behalf of the HSP Club, dear colleague Tonci Tadic. Here you go, Comrade Tonchi.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40074	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. The law is quite short, but actually essential for the development of our domestic shipping and for maritime connections to our islands and along the coast. The goal is clear. The aim of this Act is to liberalise along coastal transport and the Law could be called the Law on the Liberalisation of Maritime Transport in our Territorial Sea. But what is missing from this law would agree with a colleague from the SDP. So this law lacks an accompanying material that would actually define the fate of Jadrolinia. We, if we adopt this Law, actually bring Jadrolini to a narrower maneuvering surface. We bring Jadrolini to the stage where someone will eventually ask the question of its privatisation or that this law might be discussed responsibly we expected to have a parallel discussion with this about the strategy which with Jadrolinia further, whether it will remain in state hands, whether it will be privatised and whether it should be privatised. If it wants to be privatised, it will be fully privatised by privatising the shares as a package or by privatising one of its sections. For example, if the Adriatic divides into a few sections by privatizing one of its parts that covers, say, central Dalmatia or southern Adriatic. It is therefore difficult to talk about the concept of maritime transport liberalisation that actually affects the ship's connection between our islands and our coast, not mentioning the fate of Jadrolinia. However, the fate of Jadrolinia can be discussed with another aspect, which is that it is difficult to ensure the quality of transport until there is adequate competition. It is difficult to ensure adequate competition as long as the secretary of state sits at the head of the Jadrolinia Supervisory Board who will normally root for the growth and spread to the burden of the state budget. I'm saying this because, ladies and gentlemen, in this House of the High all these years I've been an agent and all these years we've been discussing the state budget, I've never received in the House any information on how many 280 million kunas from the state budget are being allocated to support shipping lines. What line, how many, how many departures, for which ship and by which criteria. In fact, the main ones were the ones where Jadrolinia lives and, of course, if we go to this kind of ship transport liberalisation, if this is subsidized, and all the other unsustainable ways that Jadrolinia has worked so far to buy the ferry that has been spent, to buy catamarans. We may not be more useful to deplain ships because try driving with that catamaran in winter in a situation like when Ruža and I were trying to get from Orebic to Hvar on April 9th, so you will see how many catamarans can go. No one can go but catamarans are still being bought. So all of this together leads us to one fundamental question. Such a law absolutely does, but only if the fate of Jadrolinia is known and the transparency of its funding is complete, so how much of this money has been crushed into new ferry, under which conditions and how much, indeed, on the subsidisation of shipping lines. As far as the law itself is concerned, he distinguishes state county or local lines. In fact, the difference is only in the body that gives them the concession, and it will be very interesting to see co-existence on the same line of the state line, so on the same route of traffic of state, county and perhaps even local lines, or how all of this will be coordinated together. Maybe it's not a bad idea to form a special agency to coordinate with all of that. That's really good, but then why didn't it go into the law itself, why it wasn't realized through a special part of the law. Maybe because only the ministry isn't set up as a sum agency. So, that we have the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Development, whatever it is, and that there is one professional professional agency for each part of the work run by the tourism agency, maritime agency, telecommunications agency, railway agency, etc. In this regard, it may also be possible to consider, at that time, that there is a special agency dealing exclusively with shipping concessions in the same way that there is a Telecommunications Agency which grants concessions if the concessionary is similar, therefore quality, professional, equipped for telecommunications. Today, we may have to have a body like that for rail traffic as well. Therefore, it is not all bad because one agency, one expert body that will compare these conditions and monitor whether these concessions are really subject to the law. So who are the shipmen who can participate in these competitions at all? Did we so far create the possibility to develop in Croatia the shipowners who will show up or not? These shipowners listed here on page three, so Rabing, Lošinian sailing, Mediterranean sailing, then the fishing producer cooperative actually formed former companies back in the 90s that were privatized and located on only one line. These are not shipowners in the right sense that can appear on other lines but are most often held strictly by a small line. So, we're passing the Market Liberalization Act, we're opening up the widest possibility of competition on all the shipping lines, and in fact, we don't actually have a shipowner, and we don't have any other couple listed in the second paragraph on page three that I'm not quoting them here right now. So there's definitely going to be another one, definitely but there's no cabotage under the flag. Anyone who wants to drown in shipping here and it is good that this provision is firmly defined in the Maritime Code by those who want to deal with shipping must have a Croatian flag, a Croatian crew, a registered firm here and pay taxes to the Croatian state. But that means something else. What are the conditions for concessions? Who can be a concessionist at all? These concession conditions here are quite interesting but we at the club are most intrigued by this last item which says that when applying for a concession, the applicant offers, beware, must provide evidence that he will meet the conditions. What is proof that it will meet the conditions, evidence that it will buy a ship or account that has bought a ship that will come to it or that it will have a crew, or that it can do the job at all. In our first row of concessions until a better concessionary is found, he must remain the one who is now sailing on that line. What he's like is the best so far. If he finds himself better than him, let him drive and that's the only criterion. So, the key criterion is not the money that the state gives or the price he offered for that concession, but the quality of the service, the safety, the safety that the ship will actually go on that line, the safety that if you drive in it it does not look like 50 years he's been carrying potatoes, but the ship that for the islands is de facto the first contact of a foreign tourist with that island and that ship acquires first impressions of where they're actually going. So service quality, comfort, age, then equally important speed but frequency. I don't know what the point was. That's what I'm saying at the frequency of sailing. What was the purpose of giving a concession to Jadrolini to drive a fast-board line, for example Jelsa-Bol-Split if that ship only leaves once a day which I care that he drives 20 or 30 knots if he only goes once a day from Jelsa and only half an hour after the ferry from Starigrad and only once from Split, so about two hours before the last ferry for Hvar. What's the point of that speedboat line? The purpose should be for this fast ship to go several times and at least go apart from other ferry lines so that the one who is late on the ferry may arrive at the catamaran, but the situation in which he actually goes practically simultaneously when and the ferry and goes only once is completely pointless unless someone wanted to earn some money in that way for some of his financial projects but I wouldn't go into it. So we have to take care of that, too. So the frequency is also important. And I say that especially because for years I've been fighting for that day the first line goes early in the morning, that the first line that goes to the islands is the one from land to island, not from island to land. With that first line to the islands, the fresh foods, the fresh newspapers and the first passengers arrive. But not at all! Perhaps with the competition that will appear here it will be, with Jadrolinia itself, of course, difficult. It is also extremely important that there is a replacement ship. What a replacement ship looks like. It looks like when a catamaran who drives for an island is out of pure peace in the middle of summer and then that company transfers all passengers from that catamaran to the hydrogliser of a passenger agency and now watch out the hydrogliser has twice the capacity of catamarans and it looks like who escapes. Of course, a tourist who goes to that island gets the impression that we're actually a country that's completely disorganized because his first contact with the island was this catamaran, or this hydroglycer in which they've all been pushed away, as if an atomic bomb had fallen to Split and everyone's moving to the island. So the replacement ship does, but not just any but the same characteristics. And if that concessionaire can't guarantee it, then he doesn't have to deal with it, but it's a matter of state or county saying you can't deal with that job because you don't meet my terms. So I repeat the departures once again, the departures need to be defined by local self-government, or county. The departures should be defined in the concession agreement and the departures cannot be defined by the concessionary himself. The point of the ship being on that line is to be at the service of the people who want to drive on that line, not to serve the concessionary. Furthermore, all this concerns of course and support, all this concerns, of course and the financing of the modernisation of the fleet. Modernisation of the fleet on the ship's lines in the future will be achieved simply by raising the conditions for obtaining a concession. The state will simply say these five or ten years you're driving for those terms, for the next five years you won't be able to get a concession if you don't meet the new conditions. It is a mechanism that must be brought to life with us, and I believe that when the final bill is written, it will also be taken care of. And for the end of the occasional transport of passengers. I really don't know why you went to such a detailed Law on Liner Transportation, and the occasional transportation of passengers where we often had the greatest malversions, by the catamarans who are the folk of circular travel and are driving a line-of-line navigation and similar to what the press wrote about, why you so thinly defined that part. The conditions for obtaining a concession for occasional transport must be the same as for line transport and must be equally strict. The same Croatian flag, the Croatian crew, the same level of security and the same comfort and with the fact that, of course, penalties are terrible if from occasional transport it starts to turn into a camouflaged public transport. And another detail of the circular journey really doesn't have to end up at the same port, it depends on the agency that organizes it. So we expect the secretary of state to submit to the Croatian Parliament some vision of the fate of Jadrolin by the next reading of this law in the context of the entry into force of this law, otherwise we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40075	Thank you very much, dear colleague Tadic. On behalf of the promoter, Mr Branko Bačić, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to look at some facts that are important to the law itself, which the law itself implies and of which the proposer neither intends to give up nor see it differently. First and foremost, I may not have been clear enough in my introduction, but it is not the fundamental objective of this law to liberalise the maritime transport market. It's only one time that they've realized the first fundamental reason we're going into this law. In my opinion and in our view, in the Government, the fundamental objective of this law is the better transport connection of the island to land and ensuring better maritime integration for the demographic recovery of the island and for the economic development of the island. Now it's just a question of whether the path that leads to this better demographic recovery of the island, better economic development of the island, is a current system that defines a state shipman as a company with special powers performing 90% of passenger traffic or a better solution that we think is better and that is market liberalisation. Therefore, the liberalisation of the maritime transport market must be in a more quality and better maritime connection. As a secretary of state and as an islander myself, I think the current level of maritime services is where and where more quality and better than it was before, say, 15, 10 years ago. That the state shipowner by rebuilding the fleet on the one hand, on the other hand, has contributed to better living conditions on Croatian islands by implementing the Island Act. I therefore believe that regardless of the level of maritime transport so far has been raised to a high new one, which we may not have mentioned even though part of Mr Tadic looked back on it. I think that the current maritime transport in the Republic of Croatia, line maritime transport not only is it located in a function but it is where and where the best quality so far was, until the construction of the highway, the most quality segment of traffic serving the tourist season. In previous years there have been congestion in many Croatian ports, in the last few years, because the ferry traffic to the most practical extent could have served the entire tourist season and there have been major delays and plugs in the most important ports of Split, Zadar, Rijeka port, Sibenik, Dubrovnik. Therefore, we can say that the level of quality of maritime transport is raised but to go another step forward, the current law cannot allow that further step well enough. So I agree that this law is very much linked to the fate of a state shipman. I agree that it is necessary for Parliament's representatives to be familiar with our sightings, which, after the law was implemented, and that's where we did two things. The first thing we said was precisely respecting the fact that there is a state shipman who, at this point, quality according to the means on the one hand that comes from ticket sales and, on the other hand, with the support and subsidies of the state budget, carries out the quality of this maritime transport but we also wanted to give through the creation of a study and strategy of development, i.e. privatisation, possible privatisation of Jadrolinia the ultimate destiny of the shipman himself. So by making this study that will be completed until the second reading, we certainly point out what we, as Government, think about whether to start a rose implementation of this 5-year law as to how the owner of the state should in this regard treat the Adriatic. So on the one hand, we have made it possible for a five-year period, and on the other hand, we are doing a study and strategy on the possible privatisation of Jadrolinia. We have experience on the Adriatic. Mr. Peru said that. We have experience with Adriatica. So the Republic of Italy had a similar boater as we do. She gave it up for privatisation. She's privatized. Lately, Italy has become the majority owner of Adriatica again, the Republic of Italy. So they did an experiment with Adriatica before. Later they saw and returned Adriatica to most of the ownership of the Republic of Italy. I think that at this point until the full implementation of this Law is carried out, until all 46 lines are concentrated that there is no speech and cannot go ahead of the implementation of the Law itself with the privatisation of Jadrolinia. So I think it is necessary until the whole law is implemented, until it is established how it has been practically implemented in practice to go to the rapid or any privatisation of the Jadrolinia itself because I think it is a guarantee of this level of traffic connection right now. Another important thing that I think should be pointed out is the price. We wrote in Article 16 of this Law that, that the conditions of the tender itself would be defined in, therefore, as an initial criterion that a single shipowner, who must satisfy in order to appear at all. It is illusory to expect that, as initial conditions in the competition, those that would be smaller than the current level that is reached in maritime transport will be placed. And as far as the ship's quality is concerned, it's perhaps the biggest, most important thing, its age, the safety of navigation, the speed of that ferry if we're talking about a ferry or if we're talking about a catamaran on one side and on the other side of the price. I think that what the Law on Croatian Islands has achieved in the section relating to the price in high-speed transport and passenger prices in ferry transport is not entirely but almost entirely approximated by the provisions of the Island Act. In addition, we know this well at the end of last year on October 1st, a vignette was introduced which enables all, all legal persons and natural persons based on the island to practically at a preferential price that is also 30% lower than the commercial price can travel and transport vehicles to, at individual relations. So these prices that we've set up today in this line of maritime transport that might be better if they were smaller, but I think, from the point of view of the level of detachment from the State budget, they can hardly be less likely to be the least prices that a shipowner will have to satisfy if he wants to report to that competition. And that's very important. So above those prices he can't go. However, his concession if it is a state line that lasts for 10 years. It does not mean that in 10 years this price must be such or no one has the right to say that the price of 10 years must be identical. Especially when we know today what the price of the oil market is like in order for that price to be the same for the next 10 years. Therefore, if, after a certain time, there is a reasonable reason for a possible price increase then the shipowner who obtained the concession cannot give him the price without the agreement of the concessionaires. In this way the concessionist leaves himself with scissors in his hand so that he can intervene at the possible price increase that he holds in order to be, if not justified. Later on, since it worked, we should say a few more words Mr. Tadic said, and I agree with that. So that's what the law predicts. It is not only the price or the offered amount of the concession fee, nor the price of the ticket or the amount that the State should subsidise for a non-performing line sufficient reason for someone to be the most favourable competitor in a particular competition. It is very important that it is not an old ship, that it is not a slow ship, but we have also defined by the Maritime Code that the Minister will have to adopt a regulation defining the height of the upper amount of years or the age of the ship which may satisfy it, but also by the basis of this Act, the Minister will prescribe specific conditions which will define the conditions that must be met by the ship which, which, which enters the system in line with maritime transport. And another thing about occasional, occasional, occasional transport is the same cabotage. Therefore, one who receives a concession to carry out maritime transport must meet the conditions defined by the Maritime Law, the Code. There is no talk in Croatia about performing cabotage with a ship that is not registered in the Croatian register of ships and which is not a ship of Croatian state. This also applies to taxi transport and to occasional passenger transport and circular travel if it is in Croatian territorial waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40077	Thank you very much, dear colleague... Correction of the incorrect quote by the esteemed colleague Jurjevic. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40078	The secretary of state said that, among other things, improving the quality of transport is what is reasonable. But it will be an incorrect quote as long as it happens in practice what happened to 1.7. that concessionaire private who got the Split-Supetar line and got it recently, not 100 years ago cannot sail a boat by a minimum storm when Jadrolini drives neatly, increases the number of ships that drive on that line. He can't say yes when he sails. He didn't make it to the port of Supetar. He broke the boat to Jadrolini and went back with the passengers, landed them and so on. So as soon as such a ship was allowed to receive concession, that means that quality was not taken into account. If these ships will not sail on such weather conditions when Jadrolini regularly increases the lines, then it seems to me that quality has not been taken care of and I wonder what is only a replacement ship that is worse than that?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40079	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's on behalf of the HNS Club PGS's esteemed colleague, Košisha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40080	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have before us the Law on the Transport of Line and on-going Coastal Transport. I'd like to stress here first some things that seem very good to me in this bill of law. The positive sides of the proposal for this law are what you just said not before but by introducing a market principle in the functioning of liner passenger transport. So not as the only one but that's certainly something that's good. This reduces the state participation in the financing of this segment of the transport system in the long term. At the same time, the law points out that the competition must take place in compliance with environmental safety and safety standards. This will, in particular, result in the adoption of specific sub-legislative acts in line with European Union standards on the safety of maritime passenger transport. It can also be expected to further raise the level of service quality of newer ships, faster ships, safer ships and better connection between land and islands. However, this Law also has some negative sides, i.e. this bill has some negative sides. In some relevant segments, the Proposer of the Law has not been specified. You can tell him he didn't go all the way. For example, in the light of the law, it states that there is a commitment to establish an agency as a non-profit legal person who, instead of the ministry, would conduct a public tender procedure for granting concessions on state lines and make a decision in the first instance. However, the provisions of the proposal for a law, Articles 15 to 20, are contrary to that declarative principle. No, the bill provides for a decision to grant a concession for state lines to be made by the Ministry. The tender procedure shall be carried out by the Commission appointed by the Minister when it comes to state lines. Therefore, this commitment did not become a legal text, which would be necessary and make it more effective than the proposed legislative solution. According to this proposal, the Ministry is again taking over operational tasks for which neither human or organisational are prepared. In addition, it should not be his business in terms of being and the purpose of the operation of the central authorities of the state administration. The Ministry of Law Preparation, is concerned about its implementation in terms of supervision, and operational tasks should be left to a specialised agency that would carry them out under the supervision of the Ministry as a secondary body. The proposer of the Law himself, in his explanation, states that the Agency's affairs could be linked and concessions could be awarded to the maritime good that the Croatian People's Party proposed in the parliamentary procedure, just a year ago, in May 2004. Furthermore, this Law repeals the 3 provisions of the Jadrolini Act. Those guaranteeing the monopoly position of Jadrolinija on the market. However, the Law does not offer any answer in relation to the long-term solution to the issue of a national shipowner at this time, and it is obvious that the proposaler's commitment to remain almost entirely dependent on the state budget until further notice. It would be good for the government to tell us how much a month is allocated to the cold drive of Jadrolinia, which, despite the adoption of the new law, will continue to be allocated from the budget for this. We do not think that Jadrolini and its shipmen should be sold after the latter and overnight, but we expect that in the second reading of this Law the Government will make clear to us the indications of its commitment to the national shipowner and its further funding. Namely, Jadrolinija, as an organized boater with the largest number of ships in Croatia and the basis of this Law, will have opportunities and thus to say a better starting position in competition for state and county lines. At that time, however, there is a question of justification for further financing of other costs of this shipowner at the time when this Law fully functions. There are European states such as Italy that have kept their national shipowners state-owned. Maybe the state with cca 70 inhabited islands of such a boater needs, but then organized as a communal service in the function of connecting the island. But as far as we can see, and that's what we welcome, it's not the intensity of this law. But what is missing from this Law is essential, as a colleague said, a social component. This appropriation is intended The proposal for a law finds that the pricer of the service determines the shipowner with the prior consent of the concession provider. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The island law which refers to prices in public coastal transport and perks in relation to the island population. Article 16(3), however, provides that the concession provider determines the highest permitted price of the service, but this raises the following questions. Do we want to encourage life on the islands? If we wish then, since this Law abolishes the benefits provided for by the Island Law so far, it would have to clearly define how communication with the mainland will be facilitated. Why does the State not determine the zones and showing maps as normally exists in public urban transport and which would be valid for all lines, for example in a single water area? No matter who he is and how many selected concessionaries. The number of inhabitants of an island group, i.e. the island groups of a water area, is known in advance, and this cost could be calculated by shipowners in a concession offer, and distribution and sale could be made through all concessionaries in one area. We thought this country hadn't left its islands and particularly the island. We thought, and who is also in the light of the Law, that the establishment of a public transport system in coastal line maritime transport is based on the principles of promoting the economic development of the island and coast. It's from the law. Then why are benefits lifted from pensioners, students and students, and medical staff. We think that the improvements made in the living conditions of the islanders must in no way be derrogated. Otherwise, all our efforts to implement the Law on Islands are in vain if we are now to part with certain special laws what we have chosen by passing that Law. We agree that all issues related to coastal transport, and thus prices and benefits should be settled by this Law, but then they should be defined rather than derrogated. And for the end, as someone has pointed out earlier, fewer mistakes or misunderstandings that would need to be corrected. Article 45 defines the occasional transport of passengers organised by travel agencies. For example, why would a taxi service at sea, and in accordance with Article 43, it is considered occasional transport, necessarily have to be organised by a travel agency? In conclusion, the law is in principle good. It should be supported by its adoption, but by the second reading it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Law in terms of the definition and establishment of the Agency, to define the privileges for individual population groups, and to be determined in relation to the Law on Jadrolinia. We from the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Primorje-Gorskin Alliance will support this Act until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40081	Thank you very much, coworker. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Luka Roic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as the predecessors said, is a relatively small law, but a law with great effects and possibly very significant consequences. In fact, I remember when we entered the market economy and the market economy in the 1990s, and so did many of us, and we talked about leaving the market behind, it will regulate relations in a fair way and will establish a more efficient and better economy. We started small commercial houses in our basements, in our apartments, while destroying systems that were. Ineffective, but they were big. And we managed to bring them down to the ground. To bring them down, first to insult, then to sell out, and then to destroy what we created ourselves to re-create after 10 years of creating private monopolies. I know it's the fate of the market economy, but I can't help but think that every monopoly is bad, but that private monopoly is the worst. The state must simply have mechanisms and must know what is of fundamental national interest and stand firm behind it. I'm afraid we don't kill the ox this time, too, just to eat the steak. I'm afraid there are no games in this bill, but I'm afraid the effects of this law are not exactly what I was saying at the beginning, compared to the privatisation and conversion that took place in the Croatian state. We have a national shipman who is an absolute monopoliest or in the last, well 20, 30 years with small liners who successfully carried out certain lines, but gro, main... The transport was carried out by the state public institution shipowner Croatia Jadrolinija. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as many of us as the islanders who have sailed thousands of times with Jadrolini's ferrys, boats, grumbled, and were dissatisfied with the services these ships provided, we must finally agree that this and such transport had a truly passing grade. We have old ships, we may have an inadequate fleet, but we still own and we have a state-owned ship that owns over 40, 50 very significant and very expensive vessels. Why do we have to, with such thoughtless ones, not because of the law and the form itself, but because of the preparations that had to be very seriously thought out, question all these ships, and perhaps one day see some of the cutting points which, because of what we have made possible first, I will immediately return to the current topic, concessioning, Supetar Split. Why did we go to concessions that were most profitable at least on my understanding of the railroad or the most profitable line? Why should the best horse be sold or given in concession when we had 48 or 45 other concessions that we could experimentally assign in the first phase? They can't possibly be against this law, but they can be against the procedure and the way it's being passed. Everyone also spoke to the predecessors and we are isolated especially sensitive to public liner transport because it is our destiny, our taxi, our public transport. Imagine that in Zagreb someone remembers to give the line of Crnomerec-Dubrava without leaving for the state of Stenjevec, I don't already know all these places around Zagreb and leave it to itself without giving the most frequent railways to private concessionaries. I don't think anyone would do that. I don't think anyone would have the right to do that. Here, I'm going to mention once again how the ferry is first of all and the transport, and I'm looking at all of this in relation to the island population that is fatally connected to the lineage. We have the ferry and the boats and the hook and the grave. It's both theaters and cinemas to us. It's sports games and sports events for us. Everything that happens on the island is about line transport and it is a very difficult decision to introduce a not well-explored model in order to potentially question the system. Here again, I don't know if I'm well informed, I didn't go on a ferry that got the Supetar-Split concession, but I hear it's promotional, how much that promotional activity stood. The price of the ticket was twice as cheap as public transport. What does that mean? What it means is that I, who compete on the busiest and best frequency or concession, can afford to afford the luxury of 15, 20, month, three, four, five months of my right to charge a third of the price and require the state shipman to drive the Lastovo-Split, Vis-Split, I don't know all the islands, the Long Island and all these small islands that we have to subsidize fatly. Is this how we actually introduce unfair competition regardless of the market economy? Is that absolutely right and is that a model that we can support in this House of High? I'm not saying that the proposer's intention is to bring down the Jadrolinia system. However, I think there are elements both spoken of by both predecessors and Mr. Secretary of State that Jadrolini is as the most equipped system and most able to respond to all concessions and carry them out successfully, but knowing us I'm not entirely sure that's the case. But these first moves tell me not to think like that, not to worry about the system that we've all created. I've been using Jadrolinia's services for fifty-something years. I guess I've used five thousand favors, and there's at least one lip and one of my money as well as all of you who went. And that's why I don't think we should make a quick decision that no matter how dissatisfied we are with the monopoly position of Jadrolinia and as much as you think it would be better done, I didn't get any clear and reasoned assurances that it would be better. I would like to see such a law result in an improvement in the connection of the island with the mainland, if our citizens had better, more comfortable transport, faster transport, more frequent transport, a transport that is at the level of the achievements of today's technology but I'm afraid this is the way we bring down a well-organised system that's how it works. If we were going to do this, it seems to me that we had to come up with earlier and what Tonchi was saying and all we're going to do with the state ship, whether he's still going to stay in state property, whether we're going to privatize him in one way or another because we have a strong capital in that ship, regardless of the age of the ferry, regardless of what I may have said sometimes we weren't satisfied with the services that Jadrolini provided to the island population, but I assure you that in the last ten years and especially lately we've been well satisfied with the services that Jadrolini has provided within the line traffic. And I therefore think that this is a central issue in the adoption of this law, regardless of all the other reasons that colleagues have warned about both the agency and who will or will not be and of all other aspects, it certainly interests me, above all, that the islanders and island people are in a good way connected to the mainland because I assure you that if it is not so for the next ten years, we won't need a concessionaire or concession. If we do not respond in a good way to the requirements, of course, that I do not exclude all those who come to the island occasionally as tourists, as guests, and in this sense there is absolutely some commercial interest in establishing a line connection between the island and the mainland. But I assure you, it's not a commercial job. If it is in two, three places, then it may be in five or six places and therefore let us not fool ourselves that in private and in all other market conditions we will get concessionaries who will gladly assume the obligation to connect all islands and it is the obligation of the Croatian State to connect each island with the mainland in a quality way. I once told a story that you all know well from this pay phone and once again, when Lastovo was under Italy, he was daily communicating with his home then occupation land and when he was asked in parliament a question of when we will be driving only a few people and in Parliament the question of how long will the Italian State pay the costs of that transport when almost no one is driving and then by ruling him as long as the Italian flag of the ship is on Lastovo will fly that line. That is how I am also here, and I hope that on all Croatian flags, the Croatian flag will always fly forever and ever. The Croatian state is primarily responsible for linking the island's population to the mainland, and it must be the backbone of all line and coastal transport business. I think because we need to think very carefully once again when we pass this law because I am not sure that the experiences of Italy that you have spoken about will not be experienced by Croatia. I don't think there's a privateer, and there's no shipman who's gonna be able to successfully organize a transport, no matter how many states he's got, unless there's a state-owned shipman who's going to do a much better job for me than a lousy shipman who's going to show up in a new concession. I'm afraid this law needs to be reconsidered once more. I don't dispute the government's good intentions. I'm warning you of life and all the problems I'm seeing as a citizen. I wasn't going to talk about this law at all as an expert, I didn't use any terms of the law, I wasn't talking about being divided in one way or another, to connect so many islands and land. All I know is that he is vital to the development of our islands for the sea and everything the sea means to Croatia. In this regard, on behalf of the HSS, I will express a certain reserve if we get guarantees that these problems that I was talking about will be even better regulated then we will support the law unless we are most likely to be abstentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40083	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is the esteemed fellow Stazic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I listened to this wonderfully engaged occasional emotional speech by fellow Roic. On the one hand, I enjoyed that speech and on the other hand I wondered, and what are we all doing here together? What does that even make sense? We make laws here and life goes beyond these laws, and sometimes instruments are built into the laws themselves that allow that life to take place under the law. And here's the case. The transitional and final provisions of this Act, Article 49, states that shipowners who enter into force on the day of entry into force, will not pardon 48. "Boats that maintain state lines on the day of entry into force of this Act by means of a solution to approve or a contract to maintain a certain line continue to maintain an existing line" and so on "until the takeover". Article 50 says that the Ministry will tender a public tender for concessions for a number of state lines annually according to the resources planned in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia by covering all state lines within 5 years. State lines are the lines connecting the mainland to the middle islands. The state line is therefore the Split-Supetar line. Such a line is awarded a concession to one shipowner and this situation will be maintained, it can be held for the next 5 years. Because according to this Law, the government can set a line for this line on the last day of the last term written in transitional and final terms, to call a concession. And what kind of line was said by fellow Roic? And he was wondering why we're selling the best horse in the ergel? And why one shipman who must sail on other lines? Non-commercial. Why are we bringing him competition just on that one most commercial, most profitable line? My colleague Roic didn't give an answer. And everyone knows the answer. And so I wonder why we're here and what we're even doing here? The line was awarded to a company called "Sen Marine". It was assigned two days before the local elections. It was awarded as part of an agreement that the kind of Buljubjasic, the owner of the line that supports the list of Veli Mist if he wins the concession then the list of Veli Mista will be attached to the HDZ in Split. And that's what happened. That's what happened. He got a concession two days before the election, and those independent politicians who are disgusted by politics. Who said they wouldn't make it into politics one of them became the president of the City Assembly as if it weren't a political place. It's something to do with noumismatics, not politicians. I wouldn't be saying this, I wouldn't be saying this if that shipman who got that concession hadn't happened to him on July 1st or 2nd. He sailed from Split for a well. After a little storm. And that's after the whole day of that sailing trip. He sold out the tickets, advertised that the tickets were 25% cheaper. Well, of course he can give cheaper tickets when he doesn't, sell cheaper tickets when he's not sailing on non-competition lines. When he won the concession, just this richest, most frequent line. Well, of course he can lower the price and compete with one who must sail on other lines. So when he put that boat off all day because of that keg. Then he sailed on the pressure of the people he sold the tickets to in the morning. Sailed, sailed, but the consent didn't know and couldn't. That's his boat. And that's his crew. And that's his commanding officer. And it's all about him. And he went back to Split and returned the passengers and landed them back in Split. That's how you gave the concession. Now 90% of his crew are Ukrainians. In this law you wrote that the crew must have Croatian citizenship. 90% of the crew on that line are Ukrainians. And you know it. And you gave them a concession. And it will last for the next five years until Buljubasic gets rich on it. Well, when he's rich, then maybe you'll call a concession under this law and give it to someone who has a little better boat and who has a Croatian crew. Until then, you have installed an instrument in this law to enable Buljubašic to become rich in political trade. Now I'm also wondering about passenger safety. So while you're trading concessions, trade so you don't question passenger safety. He broke the ship there, hit Jadrolini's ship when he got to Supeter. He doesn't know a man. He has no idea. While the Ukrainian-Croatian crew agreed to go forward, they gave it back. The captain says forward, this kick back or vice versa. He has no idea. They don't speak Croatian. They're breaking the ship. They're jeopardizing passenger safety. And all for that, and all for HDZ to have power in Split. So I wonder what we're doing here? I now invite the journalists who are following this, to be questioned, to go to Split. Let them question. What kind of ship is that? What's that concession? When was it won? Why'd she get it? What happened and was the safety of the passengers compromised? And who made the decision on that concession? I'm calling them now. And I'm calling the Parliament here. I think it would be good for an investigative committee to seriously establish this case because the safety of citizens is being questioned for political reasons. And so I wonder what we're doing here and what's the point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40085	Thank you very much, dear colleagues, fellow Stazic. Please, please don't throw away, especially as far as religious spills are concerned. It's not a place here. Correction of my colleague Peronja's incorrect claim. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40086	Dear Mr. Vice-President, State Secretary, assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues are incorrectly all what Mr. counterpart has just said in connection with the Split-Supetar line. Split-Dalmatian County has adopted a strategy for economic development, in which the most important concern is the traffic connection between the island and the island, the island with land, economic zones, free zones and we have therefore opened a tender for the award of the county line. Not only for Supetar-Split but for Milna-Split as well as for Solta-Split speedboat connection. The lines are scheduled. Public tender published and decided on the most favourable concessionaire that has held the line. It is also maintained in previous years on Split, Split-Milna And they are incorrectly citing any connection between the events in the city of Split during the elections and the Split-Supetar concession. [[Intruder: Time colleagues!]] This is exactly what Free Dalmatia has been reporting accurately and comprehensively about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40087	Thank you very much, dear colleague. It's a replica of a fellow Bituniac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40088	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coli Stazic said, he expressed his view and the opinion that winning the concession was tied up politically, as Mr Peronja has already denied. Therefore, the concession was implemented by law. If it is political trade, then it is not our fault for the SDP for not gaining council members who entered the foundation of the independent list Velo Misto, and I can say that many people on that list who entered the council were supported by members of the HNS and other political parties who formed a coalition in the former assembly. Therefore, if you have weakly talked and negotiated this is your problem and you cannot bring the HDZ and Velo Misto lists into any coincidence with obtaining the concession in question. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40089	Please, dear colleague. Replication response, fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40090	If it is true that this concession was not granted from the political... then after what happened when the shipowner threatened the lives and safety of the passengers, that concession was to be taken away the second day. The other day. There was supposed to be an investigation, and it took away his right to drive passengers. If the passengers can't be translated into a well, they'll break the ship. Just the fact that it didn't happen, and it won't happen that he sinks 50 passengers because his profits are far more important than passenger safety, proves that I'm right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40091	Hey, buddy Bacic, what do you want? ... No, you can't. It's a replica of replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can in one of the next announcements, because you can't dance in replicas and answers to the replica because then... Dear colleagues, don't be impatient. [[You don't understand.]] So it's seven o'clock. This is where we interrupt today's debate. Tomorrow we'll continue at 9.30 with a debate about this wheel. First of all, he's a colleague of Joseph Leko's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40092	...by discussing the Proposal for a Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport. Honorable representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40093	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State, the assistant minister! The proposal for a transport law in line and occasional coastal transport that we are discussing today is of paramount importance for the population of our islands and coastal areas. Given the distance and divorce of our coast and the population of our islands, it is clear that the connection of the island and land is the first and basic prerequisite for the life and development of the island. As the islands are underpopulated and the number of people staying on them during the tourist season is much higher, it is clear that demand for liner, passenger transport during the year is unbalanced and is particularly low beyond the tourist season. We can say that the state boaters of Jadrolini so far have managed to maintain the island's land connections in a satisfactory manner. I also believe that the introduction of a new Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport and the award of concessions in a public tender will introduce competitiveness in the performance of this activity and thus raise the quality of the service. The establishment of an efficient, continuous and regular public transport system in coastal maritime transport is an essential condition and the assumption of the development of not only tourism but also the overall economic progress of the island and coast. In order to achieve satisfactory development of the island economy and to improve the quality of tourism offers, it is necessary to adapt public transport to existing and increasing transport requirements and to ensure that state support is provided to shipowners. I believe that the market approach to concessioning the line is good because this will meet the conditions for competition in public coastal border transport in the territorial sea and inland sea waters of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to subsidising lines of State interest which are subsidized by State budget resources, funds to subsidise lines of county and local importance should also be provided and these support funds shall be provided from the budget of the relevant counties or from the budget of municipalities and cities. In this way, cities and municipalities will be able to ensure better integration of the island with the mainland if they consider this to be of paramount importance for further development and promotion and improvement of living standards on islands. In particular, I would refer to article 45, which very restrictively determines who can organise the occasional transport of passengers, excursions, circular trips, transports, which are exclusively travel agencies. It would be good to consider this point until the final draft of the law, because it would abolish the right of craftsmen to provide tourist services, which are laid down by the basic law of the Tourist Activity Act. It would therefore be wise to consider the possibility that craftsmen will be able to continue to carry out their activities uninterrupted because it is often a source of means of life. I believe that with the introduction of a concession on the existing lines, it will also gradually take care of the state shipowner Jadrolini. A considerable number of our sailors earn their bread on those ships, and I hope that the introduction of this law will not endanger their existence. I believe that the law will affect the improvement of life on islands and the quality of tourist offer and I will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40094	Thank you. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40095	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister! In fact, on the outside, looking at this law is good. It introduces market principles in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, according to species and intentional classification of the ferry line, classic, high-speed and according to the importance of state county, inter-ouragement and local. Then, according to the period of year and season. It also regulates the concession of support on non-performing lines, shipping order, occasional transport, mentions inspection supervision and can be said that from the point of view of form and content it is a good law. However, I would refer to the reality that exists in this activity on our islands. Namely, it says literally in the explanation. The existing transport system covers a total of 45 inhabited islands of 49 with 117 thousand and 99 inhabitants and Pelješac peninsula and 7000 761 inhabitants, while the islands of Kornati, Male Srakane and St. Andrija are now living on a total of ten residents without regular daily public transport lines. Of the 49 inhabited islands, 42 are connected to regular maritime transport lines. That's what I'd like to point out. In fact, here on the island of Mala Srakana lives a total of six inhabitants who are the youngest among them and are over 60 years old. And now imagine this tragedy of that population that has none, so they have no daily connection to the mainland, but not to the neighboring island of Losinj, which is approximately two nautical miles away. What's not really the grief of this country that can't for six people on an island provide maybe 70 thousand kuna a year to subsidize their daily line with the neighboring island. It's below every civilization level, and I think we need to work urgently to solve this problem. Another thing I'd look back on, which is sorting a line all year round and season. Does this mean that in the winter period people on the islands should live in isolated reserves without the possibility of daily travel? How will the islanders achieve their basic constitutional principle of equality and equality in this way, how will we motivate people to stay on the islands? Or we want the islands to become ordinary resorts, in summer overcrowded and in winter empty. Let's remember, the traffic connection or the possibility of coming or going to a place is an elemental civilizational gain and without it there is definitely no talking about any economy or life at all. Our islands are certainly one of the most valuable resources Croatia has. But islands without people are worth nothing. The island law confers certain privileges on people on islands to facilitate their lives or to encourage and motivate the development of island resources. Article 53 of the proposed law repeals certain privileges relating to the transport of pupils, students, pensioners, health professionals performing their duties and repealing certain benefits related to the prices of freight transport. I hope it's just a lapus that'll be fixed by the final reading. I would also refer to what the law itself says, and that is that one of the long-term objectives is, depending on the moment of the Government's commitment to the Republic of Croatia, a gradual controlled privatisation of the state shipowner in order to further develop market business on the maintenance of public passenger liner transport, taking into account the functioning of the island integration system. The privatisation of Jadrolinia should be approached with extreme caution, as I would say even conservatively, Croatia as a maritime country must surely need a strong state shipmaker. Resources on the sea, coast and islands are still the only thing that remains outside the influence of global privatisation. Croatia as a sovereign country must recognize them, assess their value and protect them for its future generations. Let us remember sometimes one of the world's best companies in Yugoslavia, which, thanks to the first fighters and heroes of privatisation, has been completely destroyed in Croatian way. I wouldn't want that to happen to Jadrolini. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40096	Thank you. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40097	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear gentlemen of the government. As an island resident, I think it's up to us, that you all know that the quality of life on the islands depends solely on the connection of the island to the mainland. So the better the connection, the better the quality of life. And so far the connection is not God knows what, because you know that from the Lastovo-Korčula-Hvar-Split we have transport twice in the morning, it means 5.30 and 6.30 and from Split returns at 2, 3 or 3:30 in the summer. So, and the islanders who are most gravitating in Split because of school, because of the doctor, because of anything, because of work, they should simply stay overnight in Split and you know very well what is the situation of the island and that in this way you can't really live. So we need a ship that goes in almost all conditions, which is more often going, which is going in almost all conditions because the worst thing is when you need a doctor to arrive and watch that ship that can't sail and then you sit there with it and watch the waves. Then we should have minimum comfort conditions. I don't know, those who traveled from Split to Korčula catamaran who know that there is no climate, well I allow the climate can be broken once, but in a month all four weekends that the climate doesn't work, and you an hour if you sit from Split to Hvar, everything is closed, and all chairs are full then you know very well what conditions the islanders travel in. So I actually support everything Mr. Tonci Tadic said, so we need as many ships, better connections and ships going under all conditions as Mr. Tonci mentioned yesterday, we once traveled to the stands, we should have gone from Orebic to Hvar, that morning was a storm, the ferry did not drive from Orebić to Korčula and also from Korčula to Hvar. So we had to go from Korčula to Trpanj, and in that from Trpanj to Ploč ferry, from Ploč to Drvenik by car, from Drvenik to Sucuraj ferry. So our journey that was supposed to take two hours took about six hours, and you can imagine the condition we were in when we got there. Once again, there is no improvement in life on islands, no improvement in the quality of life on islands without more quality transportation, no more frequent transport and most importantly without a ship that can go on almost all conditions. If we don't have that kind of transport, you know very well that then we stay on the island, and then our kids tell me now that some kids who had important exams, who simply couldn't sail out, and these kids don't admit that the kids couldn't sail, and then try at two or three a night if your kid got sick, try to get that kid somewhere on the island, I apologize. Try to bring that child to Split, it is impossible and try Dubrovnik. There was a situation when finally, when a man found a speedboat to transfer him to Orebic and brought that child, the doctors in Split were still cursing at them the way their parents would have died if they hadn't brought him here so quickly. It's not the parents' fault. It's the transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40098	Thank you. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40099	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate on the proposal for a transport law in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, I will support as most colleagues of the good solution of this proposal, but I will also talk about the problems of the islanders of my Zadar County, which they of course expect from me. I agree that, like most colleagues, these good solutions will certainly win good results in improving coastal maritime transport by our islands and coast. The main newspaper of the bill is the introduction, i.e. the extension of the market access institute through the concession of lines, i.e. the acquisition of public transport rights on the basis of concession. I believe that, in this way, it will be most justly possible for all interested shipmen to be freely involved in transport in passenger coastal maritime transport in the territorial sea waters of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a public tender according to established conditions and criteria. Furthermore, this bill places lines of importance on state, county, county and local. This is where the information is already presented which is not to be renegotiated, that out of 46 regular shipping lines is only six rentable. Therefore, on non-resistable lines, shipowners cannot cover the actual costs of transport that have been given to them so far as to support, or financed from the state budget. The proposal for this law would provide financial resources to support non-performing lines in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for state lines, in the budget of the competent counties for county and inter-zonal lines, and for local lines in the budget of cities and municipalities, which will charge state finances. According to statistical indicators, the number of passengers and vehicles transported to the islands is increasing from year to year, which, of course, we cannot be satisfied with, but this is certainly the result of the country's concern for promoting the economic development of islands and coasts, this is also the result of strengthening tourism as the most important branches of economic development in Croatia, and thus of ensuring conditions for the survival of islands and the continuation of the fight for every new inhabitants of the island. The better association of the island with the mainland has been supported by the Law on Islands based on which ships for high-speed transport are included in the public coastal maritime transport system. So in my county after a public tender, the speedboat lines Sali-Zadar and Rava-Iz-Zadar were introduced and popularly named line of life, ato is the Zadar-Sali-Zaglav line that runs throughout the school year with its departure from Zadar at 20 o'clock for the transport of students and students after the afternoon school shift and that name popular which the people gave the line of life has really inhaled the life of that part of the Long Island. Unfortunately, it is envisaged that this popularly named line of life ends on 17 June with the end of the school year and starts in September with the beginning of the school year. I believe the line must be active during the tourist season. I don't need to overexplain what the line of life that is such a valid name and others means in the entire tourist offer of Dugi Otok, that tourists from the island, with a regular line, can go to Zadar at 15 o'clock, visit the sights of the city and the surroundings of Zadar and return at 20 o'clock again in Sali. The more this is the only ship with which the population of Sali, Zaglava, Žman and Luke can be translated from Zadar from various burdens. Because the only ferry line is 30 kilometers away from Sali, which is an additional pain for all residents because it's simply impossible because they don't have means of transport for bigger burdens. For the sake of the problem of maintaining the Sali-Zadar high-speed line, I am obliged to speak from this pay phone on behalf of all residents of Sali, Zaslava, Luke and Žman and that the concession approval of the company "Mia Trade" d.o.o. Zadar, established line Sali-Zadar. But then with the departure from Sally. However, due to the lack of access road to the port of Sali locals Zaglava, Žman and Luke cannot reach the port of Sali and “Mia Trade” has self-initiatedly introduced a landing in Zaglav in order to pick up these passengers and knowingly produce costs for themselves. For three years, transportation is carried out so that residents of all the settlements that I have listed can use that high-speed line. I hope that the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport, Development will take into account this circumstance in the development of programmes in line with the National Development Programme of the Island and in the opening of concessions for this high-speed line and determine the starting point from Zaglav, not Sali. The company Mia trades for concession approval is also obliged to traffic twice a day on the Sali-Zadar route, but because of the need for the island and without financial support or at its own expense, she introduced the third line on the same route with departure from Zadar at 6 a.m., which Mr. Tonči Tadic pointed out, and I also say from this rumor that it is very important that the departures are from the mainland, not from the island where "Mia Trade" allowed the daily arrival from Zadar to Sali twenty workers of the fish cans factory "Mardesic". The permanent work of this factory is crucial for the economic life of this part of the island and for the retention of the island's population. The same line in Sali every day, so with the departure from Zadar at 6 a.m., educational staff of the eight-year-old school Sali, employees of the Sally and Žman kindergarten, healthcare professionals, dentists, patrons, lab workers, various service staff, whose number is constantly increasing, especially during the summer period. This line also brings the daily press to an island that would otherwise arrive 12 hours later when it would lose its actuality. I believe that there is no need to stress the vital importance of this line, especially since this ship often carries out the transfer of severe, urgent patients to the Zadar General Hospital, avoiding the costs of the transfer of special vehicles or ships. I also hope that the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development will have an understanding and will include this line in the state lines as well as the intensity of this bill. This is to adapt public transport to real requirements and ensure additional transport conditions. With this intervention, the Long Island can begin to return from the dead island to a living island and this is the last cry for the salvation of the Long Island. As a representative from Zadar County, I am also obliged to point out the specificities of transportation to the island of Pasman and Ugljan. The arrival of the highway increased the pressure of the vehicle in Biograd due to the proximity of Biograd with the highway and lower passenger prices of Biograd-Tkon compared to the price of Zadar-Straight transport. Which is why there are terrible crowds in Biograd and it is necessary in July and August instead of now to provide one ferry daily for two, not just on weekends when there are two ferrys. And let me get this straight. With all the good solutions to this Act, the law also creates assumptions for the full harmonisation of maritime, passenger legislation with the acquis of the European Union, and I will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40100	Thank you. Dear Representative Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40101	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposed Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport is actually one step towards the open market and the protection of passengers or passengers. The biggest protection of passengers as a customer of services in our case is this maritime traffic is the perfect competition on the market. Perfect competition means extra offers, perfect competition means extra service offers, erasing the difference between brands, cheap information, free entry and exit from the market, and in such circumstances the competition of the competing companies could actually accept the price and customers would in this case tell those companies whether they were willing to pay for the price or not? Of course, when we talk about transport in line, coastal, maritime transport it is difficult to talk about ideal and strong traffic competition in our terms. The basic assumption of this Act is the socio-economic development of the island and the creation of the necessary infrastructure, ensuring the quality of transport with acceptable prices. We are all witnessing how long since the war the Republic of Croatia has actually invested in our shipbuilding and editing our infrastructure in this port case. The current Law on public transport, liner, coastal, maritime transport is largely regulated by the matter concerned and there is another set of laws governing maritime transport. First of all, I think of the Jadrolini Act as the largest national passenger ship based in Rijeka. Then there is the Law on Islands, the Maritime Code, which was reportedly voted in the Croatian Assembly in the second reading, the Law on Seaports and so on. In the new market and economic conditions, the existing law has come into practice and certain irregularities and disadvantages. We all remember last year's sea-excess that happened sometime in July in Dalmatia, when a somehow demonstrated or demonstrated force of "seme", "same" ship "Split First" and maritime blockade of Split's doors by disgruntled peoples of Milna. At that time almost all available forces of order, port authorities and inspection services were involved, so the maritime police, chains, barricades actually took place in front of the eyes of many tourists, and in just a few hours in these events I believe many of these laws I spoke of. At the same time, Captain Babic announced the arrival of this new bill. The new Bill of Law aims to create effective public coastal transport activity, increase the quality of services, connect land and islands, increase security and what is most important, therefore, the introduction of competition in coastal, liner transport. I believe that this Law will also create assumptions for full compliance with the acquiss of the European Union. In short, not to repeat the constitution of the public transport system should be based on the continuity and regularity of transport, on supporting shipowners without which it is not possible to ensure the continuity and regularity of public transport and the adjustment of public transport to real requirements and to ensure additional transport conditions. Two public hearings were held in the preparation of the law in question. In Vodice last November and in Split this year at the level of counties, regional and economic chambers with representatives of Croatian shipowners and national and international maritime navigation. Then, with the Union of the Seamen of Croatia, opinions and suggestions have been expressed and with all these proposals, with all the proposals of the debate, I believe that they are implemented in this Act. The basic newspaper's editing in this matter is actually the opening of a market that will be based on concessioning. Concessions will be awarded for all lines means national, county and inter-oural and local events through a public tender to be discussed in the competent authorities and bodies and will allow all interested shipowners, legal or natural persons, under established conditions and criteria on the basis of a public tender, to be freely involved in the operation of transport in passenger sea transport. So this is the beginning of the announcement of the close opening of the market. In addition to the conditions defined by the proposal of the law, it is necessary for the shipowners to be registered for maritime transport, owned, owned by appropriate ships. That the ship is registered and the Register means the register of ships, that the crew must be Croatian citizens and that the shipowner provides evidence that it will provide a replacement ship if there is therefore a contract for concession. Yesterday, we heard criticism from some MPs that this Law did not explain enough what the conditions for concession were, but I believe it is impossible to explain in detail in the law. Here are the days of the main principles that I personally believe are enough. We were also witnesses when the branch office of the Croatian Maritime Union, the working council of Jadrolini, when they made statements that because of the unequal application of the law, some miners, such as Split's "Sam" to sail under the Panama flag and have greater privileges than domestic boaters. On the other hand, Split's "Sam" or his responsible persons denied these statements and claimed that all five ships were registered under the Croatian flag. Further "Sam" emphasizes I quote the open and market rules of the game always initially paralyze those who have been favoured until then, but still cannot escape the market, and the market is ultimately everywhere, and even in maritime transport brings more work and better working conditions. So already these thoughts and bickerings from the media about a year ago justify the importance of passing this law. One of the most significant criteria for selecting shipowners is the level of concession fee, i.e. the amount of compensation required to settle the difference between the own revenues achieved and the actual transport costs on a particular line, i.e. where they are non-erable lines. The contribution will be made by that shipowner who offers the highest concession fee, i.e. on profitable lines, that is to say, a shipowner who seeks the minimum amount of support from the state budget on non-performable lines. In other words, this is the only correct way to deregulation this market completely. The financing of non-performing lines is therefore envisaged by providing support to shipowners, since shipowners will not be able to operate under certain conditions, and support would be given either from a state, county or local budget and I sincerely believe that this law will ultimately allow these subsidies to be as little and thus in line with European legislation as possible. It was estimated that all 46 regular lines would be concessioned over a period of five years, and therefore State aid is expected to be reduced. Although the law itself is not the best way to explain financial and aspects, I believe this law is not expected to explain in the bill. So that's how I think aid cuts are expected, what relations will be with the Competition Protection Agency. I think it will be very important, especially with regard to the announced agency and participation in the meaning of calling these concessions. How this law will affect the business of Jadrolinia, i.e. its possible privatisation or restructuring over the next five years, which are expected to have additional values in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, which are real costs for implementation, etc. etc. But the most important thing is that the liner maritime transport market will become open to new carriers, and it is up to us to implement this competition through the proposed law. Then we will protect our passengers not through regulations, monopoly or laws, but through fundamental economic legality, and they are called competition. And with the sequence of everything exposed here, we support this attached text, and I also believe that it is one step in opening up competition for this kind of transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40102	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40103	Your Honor. It is not the correct assumption that all ships of the company "Sam" are sailing under the Croatian flag. The company's largest ships sail under the Panama flag, the crew seems to me to be Ukrainians or Romanians. The fact is that the owner of the company has said that he has been filling the Croatian budget from which politicians feed for 30 years. He specifically listed his colleague, Hansel Racan. Perhaps politicians in Panama, perhaps their budget is full, but Croatian certainly not with those ships, which are the largest ships, and otherwise more concerned with political than maritime traffic lately, it is different.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40104	Thank you. Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40105	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This is what I would say is a very important topic, because we are all ready to say that the islands of our great wealth, how rich the land is because we have islands, but when it comes to islands, when there's something to do, then we all forget what these islands are, and it would be better for the islanders to belong to someone else than we do, because you would certainly know how to take care of them. When it comes to this law, it's like infrastructure laws should have some kind of vision or strategy, some kind of scenario, and then talk about regulation. Otherwise, what is read in the law is not a clear reason why such a law is proposed and why it is passed except for that competition. As this is about public activity which is very important not only for islanders, but for all those who have cottages on the islands, for all those who come to the islands in various forms of tourism, so if you want for all Croatian citizens, I think this law is proposed on a shortcut and I see no important reason to bring it in this way before some other things are resolved. Namely, to explain it. 90% of coastal, coastal lines cover Jadrolini, and she's a state-owned company. The state is now proposing a law under which the state-owned company will receive concessions for these lines. These small ten percent cover some other companies that are either private or state or semi-private, and I don't see how we could improve the situation in coastal transport, when they need funds, they need ships, because they can't possibly report to a concession by Jakša Marasovic who doesn't have any boat, or it will be possible and that. Why don't someone rent a boat and report to the concession? Why not? On the other hand, I even asked on the Committee on Tourism we have a comparison with anyone concerning this law, and we can compare ourselves to me as much as I know geography only with Greece. It has such a number of islands as we do, it probably has much better organised this coastal, coastal traffic than Croatia, although I must admit that in the last ten years, 15 years, Croatia has made a huge step, and think only about which large investments were in ports, ferry ports, which are clearly all for the purpose of what we are talking about here today. And when all the sums are summed up, so the 90% of the Jadrolini lines and the 87% non-profit lines, so which the state must subsidise, for which the state must always separate from the budget, then man cannot take the impression that the basic reason for the adoption of this law is the future privatisation of Jadrolinia and ensuring business for 20 or 30 years for those who will privatise Jadrolini. I think you should think about it. I won't speak against privatisation, nor is that my intention, but if anything else should be the reverse procedure. Jadrolini was to be privatized if we decided to do so, and then go to the Law on concessions of lines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40106	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40107	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. It seems to me that from yesterday's debate, last night there were three issues left or the main topics you asked. The first is who gets the concessions, how he gets them I mean the practice so far. We have set an example here that at the end of last week, the ship "Sam" which received the most profitable concession on the Split-Supetar line could not sail to Supetar, that the orderly vessels were vessels of Jadrolinija, and when it sailed it failed to land the passengers, it crashed into the boat Jadrolinije, it returned to Split to land foreigners, domestic passengers and all the others, and that was it for that day. It says a few things, that the basic principle you spoke of was not respected, that security conditions must be met. that the quality must be equal when you give the concession and that it must also have a replacement ship which is equal to the quality. If, at such a time, the ships of Jadrolinia cannot sail a concessionary with their ship, it means that a concession is given to someone under conditions that do not meet the basic requirements we are talking about here. Another thing I would not want to burden here with a political moment, although we are politicians other than the legislative political body, but the fact is that it happened just before the local elections and the fact that the gentleman who runs the company later with his list has resolved the situation in Split with two purchased from the list of Split jire led by the SDP, gentlemen of HSU, and so there was the formation of power in the city of Split. There are deep doubts, they do not have to be justified, let people judge themselves, that concessions were traded to resolve a political situation if it was called resolution at all. If the solution is when the mayor of Split becomes the person against whom 82% of the citizens who went to the elections have voted. So the first thing is who gets concessions, under what conditions. Under whatever conditions and whether you will in future ensure that any concessionaire, it is good competition, but that it meets what is said here, security, speed, etc. Although he needs a captain who wouldn't pay his respects because he's the commander who decides if he's going to go out, he's estimated that with that ship he can't by that time that all the other ships went out, and that only speaks of the quality of that ship for these conditions. Maybe he's great in quiet waters, in lakes, in barn waters, in bars, I don't know big bars. The second question came yesterday was the issue of privatisation of Jadrolinija. There's no one here who isn't for that, so to go with a similar law, etc. But it's really a question of why we didn't get some material that was talked about by a series of MPs who would talk about what fate lies ahead for Jadrolini, what form of privatisation. We are deeply doubtful, and you must understand this suspicion after the dramatic experiences and the marches as they say in Dalmatia, you understand that because you are from Korcula, which happened about privatisation. Indeed, here someone listed Jadrolini, or Croatia Line, we know what happened to her. She's gone. It's gone. A lot of it evaporated in Croatia as they were drilling into the national chest, while the demagogues were shouting, etc. It's been a while since demagogy, and we've hit reality. There are neither ships nor jobs now, I'm not going to talk about factories about missing Yugoslavs, etc. But the fact is, gentlemen, it's starting to blow a normal thing into the cold. The fact is, we're all burned together. All together. And that is why the issue of privatisation of Jadrolinija is an extremely important issue, and it is quite understandable that a number of MPs from the various parties want an answer here as to what fate awaits Jadrolini and whether these concessionaries, and it is shown that they do not meet it, meet the standards that Jadrolini meets. Which Jadrolini fills. Will it happen that in the name of privatisation we will do more damage? I have no doubt that you have good intentions and that you are the last man to do the damage, but I am warning you, because I am also being warned as an agent that this is what I'm talking about, and it's understandable that we all have to be very careful here together, but that question came out here yesterday. And the third question that came out, whether acquired rights stemming from the Law on Islands, which is your article 53 here, some have said that it may be a mistake, whether the acquired rights of the islanders will be annulled by a degree of force if, in such a variant, the final version accepts this bill, and therefore concerns the right to travel free of charge for the children of pensioners, students, etc. We have also brought a strategy here in past mandates, on the demographic development of Croatia, on islands etc. What this law means and whether it is a higher level than the Island Law. Is there one law that can shut down, deny what I know to change the other law? And if it's a mistake, you're talking about subsidisation, but it's not clear whether the acquired rights will be abolished, and the ship is nothing else for the islanders, you know it better than I do because you're from the island. It's nothing but an extension of the road. In my view, therefore, it is also said that this map should be equivalent to what you pay on the road transport at least as far as the islanders are concerned, and these categories are whether they should be freed and payment tickets. These are the dilemmas, the relative dilemmas in me that came from the debate so far, and to which you should give us answers. First of all, if it's not a threat to reaching, I'm sorry personally that Jadrolini didn't compete for a concession, I can guess why. Let's leave it to speculation even though it's not hard to figure out why. But I'm sorry. I wish that indeed the officers of the crew and passengers on the ships of our concessionaries present and future had the same standards that they have on the ships of Jadrolinia. I'd love to. And I'm afraid we won't destroy the standard that has been reached with the great efforts of this country in the Adriatic. And the stories under which flags are sailed and who fills the Croatian budget and who feeds the politicians in Croatia, and that's the topic we could talk about and that's the topic we could talk about. Are full of Panamanian or Croatian budgets and who feeds this country and who has become rich in this country and how he has become rich in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40108	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40109	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The County Headship of Split-Dalmatia County announced the competition long before the Split-Supetar line elections. The competition was open to anyone interested. The most favourable bidder was "Sam" a Split company that does not get any kind of concession. Therefore, bringing that line with the elections mainly in the city of Split is incorrect and should no longer be repeated. Among other things, the same company established a high-speed line and previous years on the Brac-Split line as well as Bras-Solta-Split. It has nothing to do with what is said and repeated. Split-Dalmatia County decided precisely on the basis of legal options, to enable everyone who wants to work in Split and to live on islands to do so and we from the county budget co-financed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40110	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40111	Mr. Jurjevic said another dilemma had opened, and indeed, among other things, he said that the mayor of Split had become a man against whom 82% of Split voted. Now, what would Jurovica tell you about Labin where the IDS alone wins 45% of the votes and yours are now going with HDZ. Now explain it to me. You said you smoked cold, but Labin floated away when we were in those seawaters. If Labin gets rid of it, it will be easier to get rid of Mr. Jurevic and Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40112	Reply to the replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40113	Now I'm talking about political real, not maritime traffic. And colleague Cain, you're right. I personally condemn these party colleagues, have acted against the party's decision, against the decision of the county board, and I think they must bear party conjecture. It's a betrayal of party interests and I apologize to you on behalf of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40114	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40115	Mr. President, thank you very much. But about this part, I think Mr. Cain should now apologize to the SDP for Medulin, so let's continue to resolve the whole situation. I think in this part of what Mr. Jurjevic was saying is essentially not a classic replica, but a supplement, that the state in these situations, if it is about giving concessions and the concessionaire does not meet its terms, means those tender conditions because in this case the ferry was sailed from the port of Split, so it is wrong but he could not unfortunately agree but went back and forth. You said he didn't sail. He was sailing. Yes, I was listening. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But you said it wasn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So in such situations it is important to see exactly what is the jurisdiction of the state, meaning inspections within the Ministry and in all situations unless the conditions of the concession are met, or whether it is the word that the crew is not professional, that it cannot conduct those tasks, whether these are not catamarans, ships. There, therefore, should be very careful for people living on islands whose ship, that ferry means life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40116	Thank you. Secretary of State Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40117	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's what I'd like to do, given that last night's debate is here, and now these three things that Mr. Marin Jurjevic indicated and repeated from last night's debate may not have been brought to light until the end of last night. I'm certainly not this part of the San Marino concession. I think it's the turn of the government to say things that are true so that there is no clear public delusion about giving a concession to San Marino and possible links with the coalition authority that was formed in Split after the local elections. The first thing I have to say is that the government has not awarded a concession for the county line or the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. The concession was given by the mayoral headship of the Split-Dalmatia County. It is also not true that the concession was given two days before or after the local elections in the Republic of Croatia, but it is true that the county headship last March submitted a request to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development to give consent to tendering for a county concession on the Supetar-Split line. Since, according to then, the application of the Split-Dalmatia County was still valid, the ministry refused to grant consent to San Marino or to the Split county headship for tendering because it was not within the deadline and in accordance with the law. That's when it said that we can't give you consent for 2004, so we're giving you our agreement for 2005 which was completely in line with the law that I said last night that in this part was also unspeakable and in many other things unspeakable. After this agreement, the County Headship of the Split-Dalmatia County called for a tender. The tender was called in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, according to him completed the procedure and requested the agreement of the Minister to select the shipowners again our ministry rejected by law and did not agree to such a decision by the county headship because the tender was not based on the Law on Public Line and Coastal Maritime Transport which was to be called rather than under the Public Procurement Act of Goods and Services, and again the county headship opened a new tender and then made the decision on the election of San Marino as the most favourable concessionaire on that line after which San Marin started to carry out the line. However, for additional allegations that do not contribute to the fact and the assumption that it is related to the formation of a coalition government in Split... Next. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know this, that just last year's coalition authority in the City of Split, which is also made up of SDP after the Minister of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development refused to grant consent to the County's headship of the Split-Dalmatia County that the line could be concessioned by the City of Split's Headship in the past meeting gave San Marino the concession to perform that line, so that San Marin created certain problems on the basis of illegal approval, concession approval issued by the last city authority in Split, the entire port system of Split, and I think that the good acquaintances of maritime opportunities in Croatia to the details of such unlawfully issued act by the former city government in the city of Split. Another thing I must also make clear here and explain is the fact that this law does not end with the government of the Republic of Croatia or our ministry as a proposer to the Government and according to the Parliament, it does not fall to remove the existing benefits of the islands in terms of free transportation to the island and from the island. I have to make that clear. This advantage does not stem from the Law on Public Line Coastal Maritime Transport but stems from the Law on Islands and the National Sustainable Development Programme of the Island. Regardless of what implementation of this law will be part of, which may be established by new or existing shipowners do not transport free passengers and islets from land to the island and from the island to the mainland which islanders love but simply for reasons that for this service and not charging tickets and for the lost profits for this non-payment of tickets are properly covered by subsidies from the state budget. And such a practice will continue, this legislative provision will continue after adoption in such a text or in the second text of the law. And the third thing I want to define, too. This law does not go to a shortcut, this law is not passed without thinking about the future of maritime transport and the future of a state shipman. Namely, it is primarily based on the national sustainable development programme of the island, that is the first thing. The second thing is based on the state transport-connection programme of the island which the island council accepted and directed to the government on the adoption of a defined transport connection of the island and which is talking about individual islands, about their integration with the mainland and the third thing that we are now doing, which will be, which will be completed before the final reading, the final proposal of the law is a study or strategy of the possible privatisation of Jadrolinia which will give answers to questions about where and where and where and how to further resolve the organisation of the state shipowner. And when we refer to neighbouring countries, which could be the basis for us or give us some guidance in the development of a state shipowner, I have to say that the situation with those countries that we may even be able to compare with is completely conflicting. On the one hand, in Greece, which we can compare ourselves to with the number of islands and their population because it maintains liner shipping and connecting these islands mainly and to the greatest extent with completely private boaters until it is not realistic and comparable to Italy which has a small number of islands inhabited by a very large number of inhabitants, for example, and Sicily has almost more inhabitants than, rather, Croatia. Both you and such a comparison with the neighbouring country of Italy are not, it is not possible in the frameworks in which the Republic of Croatia is located. So this path that we must draw ourselves when it comes to privatisation, the privatisation of Jadrolinia must come from our experiences, from our, from our knowledge of opportunities to, in this traffic connection and certainly take care of the fact that despite the numerous observations that we islanders are making because now I am speaking and as an islander, we can refer to the fact that Jadrolini has achieved a very high level of service in this maritime integration of islands and land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40118	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40119	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I agree that it is likely that the promoter has not even memorized that the benefits of the islanders or the inhabitants of our islands in relation to the transport to the islands and the island should be abolished. However, this cannot be read from the Law. The Law also repeals the provisions of paragraphs 1 to 5 of Article 53 of Article 1 and Article 12(6) relating to maritime transport under the Island Act. And I ask that it be appealed, I appeal to the Proposer to look again at the Law on the Islands and this Law and to see that what does not come to mind so as not to accidentally subvert and end it, this, the national programme cannot be resolved. The legal basis and the national programme must have a question for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40120	What were you incorrectly correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40121	I've corrected the fact that the island law does not abolish this privilege but is abolished by this Law. For this Law is abolished by these provisions of the Law of the Islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40122	It's a claim to be The benefits are lifted by this provision? [[That's what the law says.]] [[Intruder: Yes.]] Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40124	It is an incorrect claim by the secretary of state that the City of Split has given a concession because the City of Split cannot give a concession. He can't give a concession, Mr. Secretary of State, the city of Split hasn't given anyone a concession. He has no right to do that. Then the county and so on as it went was told. You told the procedure. You told the procedure because the fact that the concession was won two months before the election. This... The ribbon stands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. I'm a very suspicious man, that's how I was born, so I wonder how that got rid of that right before the election. Look! And we often have random things that affect the future. And a third. Where he's not, where there's no respect for the concession law. If the ship can't sail through the well, and Jadrolinin can mean you gave a concession for a ship that didn't meet the conditions for driving on that line. And then there's that Split-Supetar sandoline.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40125	This is different. Leave Sandolin to your colleague Jurovic. You were correcting this part of the incorrect allegation that the City of Split didn't give a concession, did it? And the third respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40126	Mr. President, it is incorrect that the secretary of state was very unskilled to show how the concession had taken place, and then he claimed that the government had nothing to do with giving the concession. In that case he was also mentioned by the county. However, the irrefutable fact remains that the government has given its consent ahead of the elections so that it would be as a political clean service, these are no doubt, so I am correcting here and my colleague, Marin Jurjevic, these are evidence facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40127	Don't fix Marina. It's not, it's not in accordance with parliamentary order. In addition to correcting your own colleagues. ... So don't fix it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40128	I, too, must correct the wrong allegations of the secretary of state because he obviously said that the City of Split unlawfully wanted to insinuate that Mr. Jurjevic thought at the time that he was a colleague of Buljubasic on their side. Which later turned out not to be true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40129	... a significant contribution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative Nikola Ivanish. Here you go. Honorable representative Nikola Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not easy to hear you in this marble, so I didn't hear you call me. Gentlemen of the Government allow these Dalmatian stories or Dalmatian talks and I say a few views on this bill more and from the point of view from a few northern parts of the Adriatic, from Kvarner. First of all, what I would like to say is that we have a very high quality coastal position and a broadly accepted opinion in the northern Adriatic area that we, in recent years and in recent years and in recent years, have a very high quality coastal transport and that, when it comes to this law, we express our concerns and adhere to those who are asking in this assembly, are we going to open up the possibility that the quality of long sea transport is weak and not growing? We absolutely believe that Jadrolini is a very high-quality carrier and this results clearly from all these facts that were brought here in the debate. This stems from the fact that 90% of the passengers on the Adriatic are transported. With a growth of 4.6% last year. That comes from the fact that she firsted 75% of the vehicle with a growth of over 3% last year. Of course, in this case, I don't want to get into grades if some other boaters are unquality. That's what the gentlemen of Dalmatia talked about more. We in the northern Adriatic have an example of a small local high-quality liner. It's a Rape sailing that's been very good for years at everything that's in her business. Therefore, we absolutely have no doubt that with Jadrolini they should stand on the Adriatic and other carriers but I absolutely want to say very clearly that Croatia seems to be the best solution for years in the future for Jadrolini to remain a state shipowner. The shipowner in the majority state-owned, and in the conditions of competition, in the conditions of being able to engage in the debt market, create the conditions for other shipowners to enter the competition gradually and slowly but without jeopardising what is the backbone of long-term traffic. Jadrolinija for long-term transport in Croatia in the Adriatic is what is for the human body of the spine and we think that we really need to be very, very careful in acting for a simple reason because it determines the fair market conditions in which 46 concessions will be shared, with only 6 rentals. In which it is quite doubtful how transparent it is to determine the difference between the actual costs of transport and the revenues that certain shipowners on certain lines make in order to set the subsidies fairly fairly delicately both in terms and in the way that such things can often be solved in Croatia can be opened for greater damage than they benefit. I would also like to base this little debate on a dilemma. The question is who, how and how concessions should be given. Well, we just heard a very happy debate earlier about the fact that it's not even possible to agree on who gave the concession. What did the city give, what did the county give, what did the state give? Who gave whom consent and who eventually signed what. We think that we should make this clearer and more transparent and the rules about it, because we're going to have a big circus with what I think is very important to us, even though at first glance, maybe insignificant local lines will certainly weaken. It will remain on the verge of the interest of all of these larger ones, and I think that the shipmen who remain on the local lines will be denied fair and quality subsidies, and we as a state or state council, I think we must first of all take care of one fact. We must and I am convinced of this interest primarily in the life of the islanders and we are interested in the equal quality of all 365 days along coastal traffic. That's what the state needs to worry about. When it comes to weekenders, when it comes to tourists, when everyone who occasionally comes to the islands thinks that it is more important to worry about local self-government, that it should be more concerned about the counties in agreement with the tourism and the overall other economy that exists on the islands, and in an increased possible increase in quality and increased level of what they want to achieve as plus along coastal traffic should be invested from that level. I would also like to say a few words about these dilemmas about the fact that the cost of transportation is the fate of the island's inhabitants. First of all, just one sentence I want to repeat. A century behind us, demographically devastationed islands, during a significant period of carelessness for these islands in that century, the number of inhabitants came to the branches to which they were. In recent years, the Croatian state has been able to change significantly, change its relationship to the islands. The island law is an objectively good law and has brought it to islands and islands many as individuals, but it has brought many and legal persons operating on the islands. I don't think it's sufficiently pointed out in this debate that the issue of certain privileges that those living on the islands should have is something that they must enjoy as individuals, as private persons, but what legal persons on the islands must also enjoy in order to potential economic life on the islands, in order to make it possible for someone to have interest on the island to start a company. Given what I'm talking about right now, I think it's Articles 39 and 53. The bill's proposal is questionable and questionable and regardless of the oral interpretation of you, Mr. Secretary of State remains an open question as to whether, on the basis of Articles 39 and 53, the state will have secure control over the fact that the islanders will retain their rights. And if such a dilemma exists, then I think it is your duty and it is the government's duty to clearly and transparently through the amended and more precise articles in this law, because otherwise, I, whatever the individual vote, will not vote for a law that, by which it is possible for the islanders to remain without these subsidies, or privilege. And as for this first part of the part I was talking about, I want to conclude a debate with a clear view that I think that a decade or a decade ahead of Croatia will need a strong state shipowner and that a very, very patient and careful approach to planning potential studies on whether Croatia could benefit from the privatisation of Jadrolinia. I personally don't think you would. Of course, taught with much negative that similar privatisations simply led to the replacement of monopolies. The state monopoly was replaced by private, and if anyone should be a monopoly along coastal traffic, I am in favour of being a Croatian state shipowner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40131	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40132	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The disappearance and collapse of the Croatian commercial fleet that began in the early 1990s when Croatia's line went missing, Sibenik sailing, Dubrovnik sailing, Mediterranean sailing and Dalmatian sailing showed all the wrongs of the then doctrine of economic policy, especially regarding Croatia's maritime orientation. Of course, those orientations that we're all talking about and which is kind of the subject of this current debate. Of course, there were different reasons why such a situation occurred, from unfavourable market conditions, borrowing, green interest, capital sucking, and arrangements with controversial people in the business at hand are different reasons. However, when we are discussing coastal and line traffic today or the last line of defence of the maritime Croatia, Croatian maritime orientations and the most valuable resources we have, then perhaps it is not the most important question of who is doing this but it is important to do some work and to ask the question under what circumstances today is the transport of goods and people from land to the Adriatic islands, what is the importance and what impact of transport on life on Adriatic islands, especially on tourism throughout the Adriatic coast. What is the development policy of the shipowner clearly in the first row of Jadrolinija, which deals with the line coastal and affects clearly the overall business and tourist companies and the shipbuilding industry and other accompanying industries located from Karlovac to Slavonski Brod? I think it's a much more crucial question and it requires very clear answers. It's more important than who. I would be demagogue if I said that Jadrolini as a state-owned company that was in nature a state in the state and is a state in the country, that we should collapse on it and almost unselective to say so that we try all the edges of the problem and the reasons for the debate, and also political views that he often has in the debates to transfer to Jadrolini. No, I disagree with that approach, because Jadrolinia has its place, will have its place, but it is necessary for both Jadrolini and all other participants to establish criteria, establish a system of values that will be based on how someone does their job. We know from the same beginnings of the 90s, that the owner of ownership didn't exactly solve what the wise men of the day thought he would solve, which is that by moving ownership from social to private, we'll solve all our economic problems, so the offer and demand will compete nicely on their own, and we'll all be happy, happy and rich. It turns out that the change in titles of ownership didn't exactly bring the kind of prelongatives we expected. Also, that is why we should likely be taught the team and such experiences. We can't crash in the Adriatic now as reasons why something doesn't work or something's wrong. Of course, this does not mean that, in accordance with the principles of market competition, competition, and the opening of Croatia, we will not open up the possibility of competition, competition that will not endanger the original thought and the original meaning of everything, which is how to ensure that people and goods move, that the economy not only on islands, but everywhere can develop uninterruptedly, while those who deal with this activity must take care of the general interests that their income covers their expenditure. And today, when we are discussing this, of course, it should be noted that the fact that it is simply Jadrolini, because it has a special Law on the Adriatic, has never presented in this Parliament a report on how it spent its 260 or 240 or 250 million that it receives to subsidise and maintain a single railway. We never got the paper you'd say on this rail was 3 percent rent, this one was 40%, and in this one we were extremely positive and we didn't need a subsidy. That's what it takes to blame anyone who spends or who takes taxpayers' money to have a transparent statement of what he spent it on and where that money ended. Of course, entering the European Union will require certain liberalisation on the market. This liberalisation should be prepared equally for both Jadrolini and other users and therefore absolutely cannot live with closed eyes, but we must objectively consider the situation. What makes me personally sad is that neither Jadrolini nor other shipmen are able, I will not or will not want to build Croatian ships and drive Croatian ships. That the Croatian shipbuilding industry is one of the strongest in the world to be fully consulted, to be fully inside than we bought a boat for 17.8m euros from Spain last year. So what could we not do in Croatia? Privates are also ruled because it has become a model in Croatia. It's almost ugly, look out it's over so someone won't hear you order some homework. Don't let the Gods have you order something with someone that doesn't have a name from the outside world. I think it's the wrong philosophy, the wrong approach. And finally, if this Parliament gives 260 million kunas to anyone then, I guess it is the responsibility to at least be so decent or that we at least ask him to spend it on the Croatian manufacturing sector, not to get it out. Because that's true, but there are clear and bright examples. Former Minister Ljubo Jurcic is one of these bright examples because he managed to get one such picture defeated, ugly enough in 2003 to order four ships that were used for coastal liner transport and it proved that six, seven million could buy a good home-right ship, not buy ships for which we don't know who sells them or who buys them under any conditions. We can simply find out from some sources that he spent it anyway. ... That's right, all over the place, my colleagues Ingrid, unfortunately, are riding such ships, and not driving those ships that were manufactured in Croatian shipyards, where VAT was paid and where everything is clear and transparent. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's the problem. It is not a problem who will drive on coastal lines, but the problem is that they will drive and the problem is if they spend taxpayers' money then it is their job to buy Croatian goods, to buy Croatian ships because we have all that, but unfortunately we have to change the policy in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40133	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40134	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll correct two incorrect allegations from my colleague Markov. First colleague of Mark's in the '90s didn't fail the Dubrovnik navigation. The project has never even been revived, there is a project one to realize some kind of Dubrovnik navigation. And since the project didn't come to life, it didn't have anything to fail unless you thought about what was in the early 19th century or before, or at the end of 19th and early 20th. The other thing is that the former government has made good moves. I'll only mention one bad move. The purchase of a vehicle for the MUP while being taken into bankruptcy, let's say one company in Vela Luka on the other hand ordered ships in some other countries and outside Croatia, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40135	And the esteemed representative, Anna Lovrin, is correcting an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40136	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is incorrect to quote counterpart Markov that Croatia exclusively buys second-hand ships from abroad. On the contrary, Jadrolini built a transport ferry between Zadar and Preko last year. This ferry was built in the Croatian shipyard Kraljevica and the second ferry was ordered to me it seems to be finished this year and it is one of the best ever driving ferrys. It doesn't matter who ordered them and who bought them, the fact is that it was incorrectly stated that no ferry was built in Croatian shipyards.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40137	Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40138	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, liberalisation and strengthening of competition and transport, line transport and occasional maritime transport are welcome and no one can object to that. In particular, if all these line transport and state and inter-zonal, i.e. county and local units would ensure quality, safety, speed of transport, economics, timeliness, accuracy, availability of users and, of course, be in line with road, air, rail transport in the ports of arrival, i.e. starting points, and in this respect, it should be discussed to introduce minor covered lines, i.e. that at the same time the departure is both from the island to the mainland and from land to the islands because it is very important to coordinate transport as a whole. In this respect, it is absolutely certain that it is important to open these issues, and this law, in part, opens these issues, but not until the end. I hope that by the second reading these questions will be included and resolved because it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. However, the issue has been opened and the issue has been raised in a very interesting way, around Jadrolinia, which has far greater significance than just the issue of Jadrolinia. This is a matter of how to provide public transport which is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and how to ensure that, for historical, economic, ecological, demographic and their reasons, the interest of the Republic of Croatia in relation to islands and around the island is actually achieved. I must remind myself that under our Constitution, that it is a constitutional category, then the law can not only take away but also restrict property rights, etc. and in such a situation, a very different question arises. It is not a problem whether to introduce or not to introduce these lines, the state line to competition. Yeah. But what is by the nature of the letter of the Constitution, by its spirit clearly, if it wants to ensure this special interest of the Republic of Croatia, and it must now be provided by the Constitution for the public interest in that public line of transport, then there must be a carrier who will drive regardless of whether the line is paid or not and in this respect Jadrolini is now as it cannot go in privatisation or at least cannot go as a whole. The majority owner would have to be a state or, if it were not for Jadrolini, it would then be a commercial company, i.e. a craftsman to carry out that transport on the coast and in such a situation in order to protect that interest, it must be done. The second question is whether certain parts of Jadrolinia could be privatised in order to eventually gain the influence of private interest, that is another question. But the majority package must remain within the state and the state must provide that part. Of course, in this context and in these contexts comes a whole series of other solutions and few different solutions than they are accepted in this law. And let me also present in this context this support that is offered in relation to subsidies that should be a little debated as well as to discuss some issues. I will take one on purpose because in ten minutes it is not possible to pass the whole law from point 1, from Article 1 to Article 2. That's why I'm staying at the top of my game. First, concessions. If we come from this special interest of the Republic of Croatia which is undeniable, at least I hope because it says so in the Constitution, then it is not possible to exclude so-called. priority concessions. A carrier that has to guarantee because the state guarantees this special interest now to the islanders and citizens of this country and in public transport must then be guaranteed under equal conditions a priority concession for the majority owner to which the state guarantees that the transport will be provided independently of what will be included in the private sector. But if, for example, private sector benefits, they are more favourable from the aspect of achieving exactly the objectives of which I spoke about the quality, safety, speed and availability of transport line users, then its connection with other modes of transport in the Republic of Croatia, etc., so that they will get, but in equal conditions, the advantage would have to be given to this state-owned company. That's the first one. Second, in such a situation, it certainly cannot come from the assumption that the concession should last from one to ten years. Because what's going on? The ship's life lasts for up to 25 years and in such a situation, the planning and insurance of the accumulation of such a liner transport is not sufficient at that time so that ships from their own accumulation can be refurbished and refurbished except, of course, with state subsidies and support. It should therefore be discussed that this concession lasts at least 15 years, at least 5 to 15 years. Not in one year. One year doesn't mean anything. It can be discussed about taxi transport on the coast, etc., that's another thing but around these lines you couldn't talk about. The third thing that is important in all of this is that it cannot be the most favourable offer that gives the most compensation, it simply cannot because the maximum fee for the concession granted is not a guarantee to ensure the state interest. The state's interest is something else, and in such a situation, we have to ask this question differently. That's why there's something else that needs to be discussed. If it is this carrier that will be in majority state ownership and remain as if it were now Jadrolinia, then it should be discussed that the concession fee should go to a special account which should be co-financed and supported by carriers in public particularly state-owned lines, I am talking about a state concession and, of course, it is a similar situation although it is the autonomous right of the regional and local self-government units should also account for the renewal and renewal of not only ships but for the establishment of a total safe, accurate, timely and equally valid traffic on these lines. There's no point in spending that money on other things. The same thing when we talk about article 16. The same thing is in article 17. It is not possible to steal a mistake to allow natural and legal persons registered for the performance of the crafts. What about companies? They're not craftsmen? Obviously, the craftsmen here had a significant impact on the attempt to get actually the possibility that craftsmen can have through liberalisation and competition opening lines especially related to the local level and for, and then it needs to be corrected, then it can't stay this way. It's got to be done here. I must say that in Article 17(1), point 6 is purely unconstitutional because colleagues cannot have in the Constitution a provision that says that everyone has the right to work and freedom of work, everyone freely chooses the call and employment, etc., etc. At the same time, according to the Law on residence and movement of foreigners, you have the opportunity to obtain a work permit, permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, etc. but we also prescribe that it must only be a Croatian citizen on board. That's not true. In exceptional circumstances under our Constitution it is possible to be persons who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia if they have work permits, if they have a permanent stay, etc. and the third question is quite correct when it comes to the lines established by the State to connect from land to islands and between islands that the official Croatian language must be used. In this context, of course, the issue of point 3 of Article 17(1) of ownership shall be immediately raised. Not all ships must be owned but also used but must have an appropriate indicator and proof to guarantee it. Since it's time I'm gonna do a few more things for you. In Article 32, this replacement ship would have to have at least the same quality as the ship on which the concession was granted for a simple reason to ensure the safety and quality of transport and in such a situation would have to be completed. I must also say that Article 36, and then it is said that the Government will arrange this in Article 37, because this support is not told who will arrange and how to arrange the granting of support... criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That should work out a little bit. The same situation is also related to article 39 around the price list where it is said that a new price list of services should be sought prior consent, and then it does not determine the price list of services. Then he doesn't determine the price of service because he can't get a price list of services without consent. Therefore, we need to make that the pricer of the service is formed together with the concession provider in accordance with, for this to be obtained prior consent or consent, then no prior consent should be required. It may then be published but, of course, if it is not economic, it must receive appropriate support in accordance with Article 36, which will cover the difference between economic and non-economic prices. Also, this part of Article 43 makes it completely illogical to say that a circular journey must end at the port of departure. Well, it doesn't have to, why would it end up at the port of departure and it needs to be fixed. Furthermore, in Article 47, paragraph 1 of the second paragraph is now said to require consent and there is a reference to previous consent. And consent and prior consent are not the same, and it needs to be corrected and harmonised. Point 8 of the same article states that the ship referred to in point 6 of Article 17 or paragraph 3 of this Act when you look at Article 17 you will see paragraph 3, it does not speak at all about what is prevented from punishment and give that part also harmonize because it is not good. In particular, I would like to stress that the deadlines set in Article 51, Article 52 are not mutually harmonised and that, everywhere, a 60-day period is prescribed and that, in fact, the harmonisation of the price, the support and everything else is not possible to adopt these other implementing acts until the Government has brought these acts into line and I, in particular, indicate that the benefits granted under the Island Act, given this provision of Article 53, need to be reviewed once more so that what actually does not want to be eliminated by any such legal provision. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. President, for extending a little longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40139	With pleasure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose Article 204. Rules of Procedure supplementing the agenda with the Amendments and Supplements of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 and the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the introduction of the first amendment and addition of the State budget for 2005? Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40140	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President! In principle, I'm not against supplementing the agenda with rebalancing but the moment we get it. The rebalancing hasn't even reached the clubs yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40141	It's just in the corners right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40142	It would be good if we moved these boxes to the hall to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40143	It's in the toots right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40144	So we didn't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40145	Okay. If there are no objections, the completion of the agenda has been established. And I would say right away, that I am also holding a session on Tuesday so that we can finish everything, we are probably going to get some more drafts on the budget and some reforms from the government, so we can do it by the constitutional deadline and maybe a little longer work in the evening to escrow an extraordinary session. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40146	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. This law, whatever it is you're talking about, is actually meant to liberalise coastal maritime transport. Partly because of the obligations Croatia has made in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Partly because there is a trend in the liberalisation of coastal maritime transport throughout Europe, so Croatia fits in. Whether it will give the desired goal remains to be seen. But when we compare ourselves with other countries, it is best to compare with Greece. When my friends from Hvar, when my friends from Hvar visited the island of Pharos in the Aegean Sea, they were amazed that from Pharos to Piraeus, they drove 20 boat lines a day. Watch 20. Not two, three, or even five that Jadrolini introduces on the weekends for Hvar, but 20 shipping lines. This can only be dreamed of in the Middle Dalmatian islands. So you have 20 lines a day. Those who have never experienced it do not know what it's like to be without a ferry or not to know what it really means to the islands that in the evening after 5 or 6 hours you can't go to the mainland, no matter what's waiting for you on the other side, so you can't normally use the boat line except maybe some leutoma, a brake or someone's speedboat or sandolin. Equally, you can't go from land to the island after 20 hours, even if it was waiting for you on the other side of a million euros or it was life and death. So definitely life on islands depends on the quality and frequency of shipping. But not just on them. I believe that the success of tourism in Central Dalmatia would be significantly less if there were no quality boat connections with Italy or I believe that the success of tourism in the southern part of Croatia's coast would be better as soon as the catamaran ferry was introduced which would drive the line from Kvarner and from Istria to the south. Something similar to what the Italian Dream company has driving across the Adriatic. So the introduction of such a sea highway will, I believe, also contribute to better transport to the south of the Adriatic, but it is obviously one of the topics that the Government will have to discuss and which, by the basis of this Act, the Ministry or some of its agencies will put into concession. So with a law like this, the government wants to exercise its right to assess on which lines is it desirable to have a high-quality concessionary, or what kind of shipping line does it want to introduce? But this Law actually brings Jadrolini into even more competition than it has ever been in. And that brings us to two key questions. First. What is the fate of Jadrolinia, or will it go to privatisation? Should we go to privatisation and if they're going to privatise how they're going to go to privatisation? And I expect that's what I asked for on behalf of the club, so I'm saying, by the next reading, that we get a study of what is meant to be done with Jadrolinia, or what is her destiny? And the second question to which this competition or the liberalisation of shipping leads us is the question of who are the competitors of Jadrolinia in the first place, who can compete with it? For the sake of the existing position in which she was a privileged shipowner who, who swallowed the mains of 280 million kunas of annual support from the budget that I have never received a report in the Assembly in these five years on what was this money actually spent on? Which lines and why? Or how much of that money that's meant to subsidise lines as much of that money is actually spent on buying new ferrys, and so in that situation where she was a privileged carrier, we didn't actually develop boaters as competition. The whole series of shipowners is listed here, however, most of these so-called Rapska, Lošinjska, Mediterranean sailing are actually located on only one line. It's hard to expect from them to go out on the competition and on the other lines because they haven't developed so much for now. For the rest of them, it's worth the same thing. So if it goes to this kind of liberalisation, we have to ask ourselves, who's going to be on those lines anyway? Are we actually going to open up a wide-ranging space for the entry of foreign companies? Are we going to open a space for domestic shipmen who could develop and who could develop not actually have space. As for the lines, of course, they differ here in state, county and local but the difference is minor. It's just about what body gives them. It's what first comes to a man's mind what it's going to be like to live on those same lines. So whether to compete with each other or who will eventually coordinate it all at the state level so that no hyperproduction of lines in one traffic direction occurs. So maybe it's a good idea to introduce some kind of ministry agency that would look at it all together and evaluate what and how? In any case, there are only a few shipping lines that are profitable and uninterrupted. So it is constantly full of ferry that Orebić-Korčula, Split-Supetar, Split-Starigrad on Hvar, Zadar-Preko and others in the northern part of the Adriatic. The person who receives a concession for transport on that route must be on that shipping line in a kind of tied-up trade, if necessary, to jump in with his replacement ship and on another line, to jump in the same way as on an inter-island connection that can be covered by that line. I really don't see any reason why one who gets a concession on driving between Old Town and Split doesn't stop at Brač to increase the link between Brač and Solta. So it's got to be shoplifting. The concession contract must indicate that part of that line also covers an inter-island connection that does not exist now. I don't think there's going to be any difficulty especially on the lines I repeat which are profitable. The Split-Starigrad line, Split-Supetar or Zadar-Preko or Korčula-Orebić are profitable lines. They're always full. As far as concession conditions are concerned, there is no cabotage under the flag. So it has to be a domestic boater with domestic sailors. So, under the national flag, a domestic company that pays taxes here. Second, the ship must be able to sail. So we don't want a ship that wants to sail but we don't know where they're gonna end up? Is he going to Matthews or Hvar? Third, it's not just about money. It's about service quality. So comfort, which means someone has to follow that contract and cancel it if they don't respect it. Then the driving order must be defined in the contract itself. And it's not just the speed, it's the frequency of the departure. Furthermore, the contract must indicate a replacement ship and not as a condition that it will meet until it gets it, but must know what it actually counts on, renting a number of Jadrolinia to which it is a competitor or to its number. I already set the example here when we were transferred to the water boat as it seemed, it seemed terrible, it seemed like a refugee, and if it was an impression that tourists were getting about us, then it'd better not have such replacement ships. And what's crucial is leaving at the concession of an existing concessionaire if there's no better offer. The modernisation of the fleet in the future should also be defined by increasing the conditions for concession contracts. So, these five or ten years you're the leader of that ship, the next five you won't be able to do because we think you need to increase the concession conditions. So these are all things that are more or less known, all of these are things that I believe were in the light of the representatives of the ministries when they wrote this law, but they must be clearly written in the law itself and must be clearly stated in the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40147	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Krono Peronja's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40148	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Assistants, colleagues and colleagues. We are just ahead of us of the proposal for a transport law in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, which is nomotechnically modern, neat. Before being delivered here on our benches in the coastal county area, I would publicly say an agreement between representatives of the coastal island counties that have islands in their composition with the mayors, mayors, representatives of the county chambers of business, shipowners, carriers, with all those who are at the heart of the sea, underused, who have better traffic connections in their hearts, but also the economic development of land islands, islands of each other, and therefore this proposal is very good and very good. It might be useful for some other laws of interest for the Republic of Croatia to pass such a procedure. It will be easier for us in the Assembly to discuss them and make a decision. Of course, what should in principle be more and more precise is that some of the articles here will not be decorated by this law but not by other laws, for example, by the Law on Islands, about Jadrolinia, the Law of the Sea, some of which are here, will not come into a worse position than they have been. Also, many colleagues and colleagues who have shown a great deal of concern about this law, I believe that this will make them more caring and responsible when the state budget is passed, because it depends on whether we will have more frequent connections, faster ships, cheaper maps, despite the fact that in the Island Act it is beautifully and precisely stated. But if we don't have money, we won't have a better connection. Therefore, I believe that there will be sufficient concern for the economic development of the coasts and islands in terms of better and more frequent integration of quality, because only faster connections, more frequent connections between land and island, the island can be stopped from evicting, islands can be further developed, and that is what counties that have in their composition islands and islands cannot do with their budgets. Therefore, the choice of shipowners and timing should also determine that the last departures from the island towards the mainland are later than they have been so far. For example, it is always five, six hours apart from Supetar-Split which should be from Old Town but also from Sučurje, but also from Solta, that the last departure should be at eight o'clock in the evening and from the destination on land to the islands. I believe that we will also be able to realise this because so far there has always been a respect for what the island's inhabitants and the coasts say. Data that we can easily control say that by increasing the number of lines, their more frequent connections increase the number of passengers and vehicles from year to year, passengers and vehicles, and that will be even more so by completing and releasing the Croatian dream, the Split-Zagreb highway. Therefore, it should also be said that this law and the current way of implementing the procedure must be regulated just as the State Secretary mentioned yesterday, and I would like to repeat it and add that only if the Agency is founded so that this procedure can be implemented more quickly and qualityily, that the Agency as a non-profit legal person should be justified as soon as possible, since the State Administration is still carrying out the procedure, the second-degree body for the resolution of the appeal, not to be both first-degree and second-degree. In fact, a special law should be established as soon as possible so that the agency would carry out both part of maritime goods business and the implementation of the procedure and concessions on maritime goods now carried out by the Ministry and the Government, as well as the tasks of establishing maritime goods borders, which is often too slow and long a procedure, and we would improve it and effectively show it. It is also this bill that allows the concession of passenger lines to extend the market approach and achieve competition in public coastal maritime transport in the territorial sea and inland sea waters of the Republic of Croatia. But there is also a broad possibility for counties, very precise and cities that have islands in their composition that they can finance or co-finance those county lines that they appreciate are best. So the Split-Dalmatia County co-finances the Split-Milna line among other things, according to Solta and Vis. But for the prominent is the town of Trogir which co-finances this one line of Drvenik Veli-Drvenik Mali, Trogir as the City of Trogir. Of course, all that is proposed here tells us that we must count on all these proposals, despite the fact that only a part of the year achieves full capacity, to seek that the application of this law should also be provided in the coming years with sufficient budgetary resources, based on the positions of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, in order to carry out public coastal coastal maritime transport on lines of interest to the Republic of Croatia, where the revenues of the shipowners do not cover the actual transport costs. This is also because just after the completion of the Split-Zagreb highway, more people, business people, older but also children come all year round to the islands. Either rest or wider plantations of olives and vines, which can be easily determined by increasing the number of real estate contracts. It should therefore be possible to do so again because today many Bracans, Soltani and Hvar live on islands and work in Split. Make it a relief for those who want to continue to develop the economy but also to increase the standard on the islands. Certainly, the Law on Islands that has good solutions, because it has just been done on the basis of the experiences of those countries that, in their composition, have islands like Japan, Australia, America, the United Kingdom, used the best possible solutions, we just need to increase the revenues, of course, so that these solutions can be made permanently. What I would like to point out should be increased and specified in particular in Article 13 as indicated, in paragraph 3 of the classical shipping line carried out by passenger ships whose speed is not less than 12 knots, let it be at least 14, 15 or 16 knots because it allows us to travel more easily, faster and better. Specific projects that already exist would also need to be more involved in connecting some cities or municipalities on different islands, such as Milna with Solta, which is not what the county itself can do, nor the two islands without the help of the ministry. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Of course, if possible, the lower limit should also be determined, i.e. the age of that ferry, in order not only to meet the comfort but also to ensure the safety of sailing on such ships, as it is necessary to highlight not only for the tourist season but for those who are constantly travelling throughout the year, should be able to make these ships fast, comfortable and good. Of course, the greatest profit that has been achieved in the past...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40149	My colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40150	It is precisely priced, so they are very well resolved for the islanders both for those outside the season and in Article 39 very precisely stated in what way and the procedure will be brought the price of services and I repeat, good solutions in this law that are proposed should again and again be stressed that it does not touch pensioners, students, students, those islanders who have their residence on those islands. And I ask my colleagues when the budget is voted upon to bear in mind this debate today and to separate the funds necessary for its application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40151	Thank you very much. So we've completed an individual discussion and we're going to discuss clubs for five minutes. It is up to Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac on behalf of the IDS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40152	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the Ministry. A lot is said about this law, which just shows how important this matter is and we know that we are a country with thousands of islands and that our islanders are really connected to the mainland of vital importance. The proposal for this legislation on transport in line and occasional coastal maritime transport may have a good intention to improve this link between our islands and the mainland, but I fear that this law cannot and will not succeed in introducing a competition because, of course, the underdevelopment and poor population of the island of demand for line travel transport is unbalanced because it is particularly low beyond the tourist season, which, of course, results in the low annual capacity of transport. In the light of this law, it is said that filling means ferry lines with vehicles is about 35% and with passengers is 16%. This kind of business, of course, is unreservable, so ships must naturally co-finance themselves from the budget of either state, county or city and municipal, and then it comes down to it if you have money, you have a line, if you don't have money lines. But in the end, I would just like to look back at a few articles that I received from Kvarner, where they point to the issue of this law. Article 8(3) provides that the ship's cost coverage covered by the expected revenue will be compensated from the county budget, and Article 9 of course mentions the budgets of municipalities and cities. No question is asked how to resolve the coverage of such costs in case the line is declared local e.g. The dead island of Losinj and Lovik, which will also replace the existing state line. The same case may occur that some county line is carrying out and part of the government's obligations stemming from the Island Law are therefore expected to be settled in the second reading. Article 17, 18 and 48 when these articles are read, the aim of the legislator is specifically to shut down the state ship's Jadrolini and thus disrupt the current very high quality and stress safe transport. In addition to security, we have seen more and more accidents in recent decades of foreign passenger and ferry companies while domestic shipmen provide very safe transport all the time. The introduction of private interests will, of course, put out domestic shipbuilding and in the part of the new construction, as well as in the part of the remont. We have the impression that in the long run this law opens Pandora's box and does not provide adequate protection to the national flag or to the national shipowner. Why do you need to destroy something that works so well? The private interests that will compete with the domestic shipowner, and we don't know, and we're not sure that after the end of the contest they won't forget the promises they made. In accordance with point 5 of paragraph 1 it is prescribed that the shipowner fulfils the prescribed technical conditions set out in Article 13. However, Article 13 of that Law provides very strict conditions while the same paragraph 5 requires shipowners to comply with the applicable requirements of technical rules. It opens up a very large possibility of different interpretations. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The question is what is this evidence and which will guarantee that they will fill out the evidence. Finally, Article 21 should add a new item giving the possibility for the concession to be granted for a shorter period than the deadline set out in paragraph 1 or that state concessions may be between 5 and 10, county 3 and 8 and local between 1 year and 5 years. It means that the test lines can be given on a shorter deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40153	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40154	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister Babic. Discussing on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club last night in this High House on the Proposal for a Transport Law in line and occasional coastal maritime transport that we are bringing to an end I pointed out that the SDP Club accepts in principle the law in order to introduce a market principle through the concession system for all shipping lines based on a public tender. However, the adoption of this law should not undermine the quality of services achieved and primarily reach the level of safety in the passenger ship transport in the Adriatic. If, on the other hand, the only criterion of decision-making on offers would be the level of concession fee on profitable lines, i.e. the amount of subsidies applied for for for non-performing lines, then that danger could indeed go to the expense of the quality and safety of passenger maritime transport, and that is the greatest concern for us at the SDP Club. What the concession appears to be awarded to a particular shipowner when it is not taken into account primarily on the technical and safety conditions to be met by the ship and, if the concession is still granted in direct political contact, the example that was highlighted in this debate last night and today. This was about political contact or not the fact that on the day on which the Split port was spoken, it was collapsed, that it was blocked, that the ship of Saint Marine could not meet its requirements and that at the same time the ships of the passenger ship of the state-owned Jadrolinia and of increased traffic. This law must provide activities exclusively for Croatian shipmen, Croatian ship and flag and employment exclusively for Croatian seamen. The second thing that is very important to our islander is a ship or as we call it the Vapor and Father and Mother, and life, and joy, and sorrow and human destiny. The island ship simply means life and life on the island is specific, pleasant, special, unique but also painful. We have defined ourselves as a country, as a society, as a state to encourage the demographic and all kinds of development of our pearls, our islands. If we want to remain consistent with that definition, which is translated through political will and into the Island Law, then I must point out that one of the key shortcomings that the second reading needs to correct is the lack of a social component in protecting the inhabitants of our islands. The island law has a clear intensification of the return of the island population and the development of the island and this proposal abolishs certain benefits or not defined islanders, abolishing benefits for example for pensioners, students, students, health staff. If our goal is to encourage all the development of the island, then we must in no way derogate and achieve the degree of improvement of life of the island and expect it to be incorporated into the law until the second reading. And finally something that is very important and vital to all of us MPs and all of our citizens, there is no vision of the government in relation to the national successful state passenger shipman Jadrolini. The law offers no response to the long-term resolution of the status of Jadrolinija. Whether a country with a thousand islands needs a national passenger shipowner in state property. That should be taken seriously. Take, for example, the neighbouring Italy, which privatized the national passenger shipowner and then recovered it into state property. In any case, we cannot afford this luxury because after privatisation in Croatian we are not what we have and we would no longer have anything to return to state property. Are we really going to let hyenas put their fingers on the Adriatic, as they did with the former Yugoslavia or Croatia lines, which from a world-renowned and recognized shipman turned what the alkars would say into nothing. No, it's just that Jadrolini can't experience that fate and it's our responsibility. We therefore expect the government's response to the long-term fate of Jadrolinia and the decision on its fate cannot be an expression of the political will of any government or party, it is a responsibility for the citizens of Croatia and this Assembly. The law according to us at the SDP Club, to conclude, I see that red light can go into another reading. However, until the second reading, what I did last night and now pointed out on behalf of the SDP Club must find its place in a concrete legislative proposal, and especially what is very important, and it is important that the government sees the future long-term fate of the national passenger shipman Jadrolinia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40155	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Here is the proposal for a transport law in line and occasional coastal transport. Already in last night's debate, in fact, we are from the opposition and most of those involved in the debate expressed certain reserves under this law. Namely, if we were in a clean situation that we were from some, in a position of some starting ground in terms of solving this problem, that we were probably somewhere like Greece when it created its connection between the islands and when it started in a market and private arrangement, then perhaps this law would be completely acceptable. But when we know that we have a state shipman who has over 53 vessels, among them 36 very valuable ferrymen who are on average old but also those very high-quality, very ready who can almost meet Croatia's needs in connecting in line coastal transport. Then the situation is completely different. It's different, and this also showed an example of Italy that tried to privatise its system to get back to the state system and we're right somewhere in this problem and we need to talk about it very seriously. Everyone said that the central problem of liberalising coastal line traffic is if it can be said whether it's someone else's request or whether it's the decision of the Croatian Government of the smartest people who are thinking and experts who are thinking about this problem or whether it's a fake again, some stutter that's going to be planted to maybe realize some interests that have been very cleverly realized in the past. I said last night if we're going to kill the ox again because of the steak, we're going to let someone who's trying again and I assure you that direct coastal traffic is certainly not a commercial basis. Only six and unfortunately we've never seen official reports from Jadrolinia are lines that are economically and commercially justified, even if that's what I hear. All those others need the help of the state. And what is this aid going to depend on exactly who drives on these most profitable lines, why did we have to give the most profitable Supetar-Split line first in the concession? Why didn't we do it on some average middle line and see if that shipowner could satisfy both economically and primarily technical, security and everything all his colleagues talked about? The fact is that the ship couldn't move out of Split during the first minor storm. I think that's enough reason to take away the concession. And why are we so irresponsible to the wealth and what we have in the state because of the larger ones said completely vague interests. I am not against the introduction of a market mechanism in all areas of social life but on very strict and very clearly defined and deeply thought-out grounds. We must not destroy a state shipman to get some new tycoon to connect Split-Supetar, Split-Starigrad or perhaps Preko-Zadar. And who will connect Split-Lasovo and who will connect Split-Vis, and who will connect the islands of Silba and other islands that may not be able to cover the price of these people who work on those ships daily. There, that's the problem. I think it might be easier to subsidise and that it would cost less if these relations were properly deployed between commercial and non-commercial connections or sailing so that some balance could be found, rather than quickly giving concessions where we certainly expect profits. The state will then likely have to reach deeper into its register to compensate for the quality of transportation of all those who are dependent on this support because otherwise they would not have a relationship. Unfortunately, I'm afraid if we continue to solve these problems quickly, the concessionaire won't need it because he won't have anyone to drive for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40157	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Secretary of State Branko Bačić will conclude. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. I thank you for the debate that resulted from this proposal for a Law on Maritime Transport, and I must say that with many of the discussions I personally agree with and that already the vast majority of these proposals, the suggestion is an integral part of this proposal too. I would like once again to reject such a suspicion clearly on behalf of the government that the concession mentioned repeatedly on the county line is connected to any political one, has political connotations. The government has made it clear twice because of non-compliance with the law has not given consent to the start of the ship's work on the line. And until all assumptions were fulfilled according to the shipowner's law there, that line couldn't be maintained. And I may not have explained it well enough before, but the irrefutable fact is that the government said twice I refused to give consent, and that the previous city administration of the City of Split had given concession approval in an unlawful manner tried to enable this activity to be carried out. And that's quite clear, and I think we can free that story about it close. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I said last night, and I'm gonna do it again. The basic, fundamental idea and intensity was to take a step further in the island's transport connection. I said he's a state shipman because I'm also the chairman of the National Shipman's Supervisory Board, and I've achieved an enviable level of services in maritime transport. We islanders can be, I can say it as accurate and one of the biggest services of the shipman himself is that it could always be better. And it should be better, but the fact is that this shipowner has achieved the safety of sailing, that the crew are extremely well-trained and trained for the work they are doing and that this shipowner and they show the rewards that he received last year from many cities and municipalities and tourist communities throughout our islands and coasts. But now it is only a matter of how and how to improve this traffic connection? I don't think there's a better way to go than opening a game. In doing so, it is clear that the state shipowner Jadrolini must safeguard the fundamental interest for which it is founded, although that company is also one of its basic tasks to operate on the principle of profitability. Its even more important core tasks, the public function it performs, in maintaining the island's connection to the mainland. And we're aware of that. I, too, said it myself last night and will now repeat that from the second reading of the law will be on the benches will be on the benches of the parliamentary representatives of the studies, a strategy that the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb is doing. Which study was arranged two months ago and which will give one of the sightings of possible privatisation of Jadrolinija. It does not oblige either the Parliament or the Government to go into this privatisation, but based on the experiences of the states that I mentioned earlier in similar situations in which the Republic of Croatia and that business had passed before us not to make those mistakes they were making, I mentioned earlier that the Republic of Italy first privatised its state shipowner so that it came back to the majority, in a majority package of shares in that state-owned, state-owned shipman himself. So in these experiences, and also in the knowledge of those of us working on these jobs, we can show ourselves about the privatisation of Jadrolinia. There must be no fear. Fear produces ignorance. Because of ignorance, there is fear in all of us together. And that's why we started to make certain senses clear so that we knew what the state shipman meant. Let's see what path his privatisation may be, but it's clear that we need to know that, in this state of affairs, things like this in maritime transport like this, a state shipman is necessary at this point. There were also questions and suggestions about possible future concessions. Something similar to what is in the maritime good was obtained by former social enterprises that carried out cargo operations at Croatian ports. Who got a pretentious concession for 12 years. Well, even the state shipman had an 8-year pretentious concession. The current law was passed in 1997. This is 2005 so it's already 8 years of pretentious concession. If that's what we can call her. And not to say that the deadline for implementation of this law is five years longer. So on some lines they'll have a top priority for sure and 13 years. And another doubt, the rentable and non-performable lines. So we all know that the line by the government's decision can be, becoming very fast-moving. The most profitable line on the Adriatic by deciding who gives the concession can become inert. Namely, if we introduce that shipowner to drive all night or several times during the night. That it is obliged to increase frequency and frequency, both frequency and winter, and not only in summer very quickly, that line will become inert. Therefore, the rentability of the line depends on how many times it is daily connecting the islands with the mainland. As for the restoration of the fleet, Mr. Markov said that this government does not care about domestic shipbuilding but that, rather, it has bought one ship in Spain for EUR 18 million. It is true that the Zadar boat was purchased last year and today the best ship in the fleet and the ship that can now be sold by, given the conukture of the ship's market at a much, much, much higher price. But the fact is that this government has accepted a programme to rebuild the Jadrolinia fleet that involves building nine ships in Croatian shipyards. And one used that I said before... Last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are already four ships in that program. Three ships have already been delivered. Two last year, one Cres ship a few days ago in Split and another ship expected to be delivered to the Kingdom on 14 July, so the largest ship ever built. A passenger ship in Croatian shipyards for Croatian shipowners. So much for how much this government cares about the ship's construction programme at home shipyards. And when, and when I talk about it, then I want to say that other shipmen do the same. Mr Ivanis mentioned earlier and it is true that Tuesday is also delivering a new ship built in Croatian shipyards for rap sail and will be delivered on Tuesday, this next Tuesday as I said. So our boaters are mostly real boaters building ships in Croatian shipyards because they are really and competitive in that part. Otherwise, when I'm talking about Jadrolinia, I still want to mention the next thing I know that at this point Jadrolini is one of the biggest liners in Europe. With 55 ships available on July 14th, its capacity will be about 25 and a half thousand passengers and 3 360 vehicles, which speaks enough about its strength, which is the right job for which Croatia is currently in charge of positive regulations. What, then, is the other fundamental reason why we are going into this amendment, that is, the adoption of such a law is also the fact that the previous law meant it, but we are now making it clear. Who can carry out maritime transport in the Republic of Croatia? We keep cabotage for Croatian shipmen, it is exclusively intended for them and this law has made it clear and said it. So, cabotage is exclusively a Croatian shipowner with all the conditions that follow the boater who can do the job. It was also about whether real implementation of this law would allow any shipowner in the Republic of Croatia to compete seriously with Jadrolinija. And that's a fact, because at this point most of the ten shipmen carrying out that traffic can't be competitive to the Adriatic. But the fact is, this Mr. Markov also mentioned earlier, that this fleet has been beginning to shrink since the 1990s, that the trade fleet of the Croatian state has been reduced, that many companies have been abolished, in bankruptcy, in unfortunate privatisations, etc. I just want to say that this year the Croatian merchant navy is bigger than ever in history, no matter how painful the fact that there is no South Line, that the Mediterranean is where, that the Dalmatian is gone, that the Sibenik navigation is gone. But the fact is that in the history of Croatia, the merchant navy never had the capacity it had in 2005. At the same time, at the time of the adoption of the Maritime Code, we also accepted a proposal to accept a proposal on compensation for the repossessed ships during the former Yugoslav communist rule, and this rule was passed by all those shipmen if they had stayed alive then, if those ships had not been taken away today, perhaps they would have looked quite different in Croatia today and would be similar to maritime traffic in Greece. These boaters are practically gone and these ships are really gone. So, on the one hand, our goal was to improve the transport connection, to preserve on the other hand, because we know what it means in Croatia as a state shipman who raised to a very high level of services this passenger maritime traffic in the Republic of Croatia. But at the same time, we think that there is no better step-off if this segment of traffic does not enter with a market competition in which under the same very high conditions, the criteria that will be prescribed for the safety of navigation, for the speed of the ship, its age, and which is very important perhaps the most crucial price of the service of that ship, that this is the only possible way to move one step further in a better transport connection. Maybe all the solutions in the law itself aren't the best shot. So here is the first reading that has helped us through the discussion of ourselves through the first reading, to see what the reflections of Parliamentarians are under certain provisions of this law and then to clearly respond to them and to bring them into line with what is highlighted in the debate itself, and what we in the Government certainly agree on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40159	Thank you very much. We have four corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40160	It is not true that Mr. Secretary of State from which it would be understood that the City Council of Split or the Headship in any way gave concessions to the Supetar-Split-San Marini line because it is not competent to do so. It is true that this is not the decision of the Headship, that it was required of one city service a year before your consent was obtained and that this opinion was positive and that it was not in accordance with the law and the truth is that two, three years have been difficult about it and the truth is that the concession was given by the county with your approval two months before the election and therefore our doubts are why two months before the election and that this debt is returned politically. We talked about it quite clearly this morning, and the question you didn't answer was why the ship got a concession that couldn't sail while other ships were sailing. That was the question, if you said the goal was therefore that the ship must be of the same quality. The sailboats were ships, this one couldn't because of the storm. He set sail before nightfall, so he had to go back because he couldn't even land the passengers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40161	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40162	Mr. Secretary of State says fear is born out of ignorance. My fear for the safety of passengers is born exactly the opposite of knowledge, from the knowledge of what happened in early July when a boater with a worse boat put passengers in danger, their safety, their lives, and it put those passengers in danger because he received a concession to sail on the Supetar-Split line as a reward for the list of Velika Mist, which he supports into the coalition, in power in the City of Split. This debt has been charged with passenger safety and the safety of passengers remains at risk and will be compromised as long as that shipowner has that concession you gave him.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40163	You have not corrected the incorrect quote as usual and you have yet to raise the question of the list in Split which was also not the subject of this debate, and as you do so constantly I keep warning and keep going on and on. Right? Mr. Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40164	Yes, this government does not care enough about the construction of ships in domestic shipyards as the secretary of state claims. The fact is that both the undisclosed guarantee to Brodo Split amounting to $69 million, and thus when and with how many months of delays in this way it has been shown that there is no concern for construction and no concern for jobs in the region of Dalmatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40165	You didn't correct the incorrect allegations either, and that's in a series of abuses of this instrument that we have in the Parliament, but we're moving on. Nothing new. And Mrs. Ruza Tomasic, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40166	Thank you very much. This, I hope, is the correction of an incorrect quote. Well, Mr. Secretary said this law was passed and to improve along the coast and between islands of integration. I would just like to point out that between the island connections, actually, it will be the same connection as before, and the locals of Lastova have been looking for a connection with Brno on the island of Korčula, asking for Last's connection with Vis, she sought Korčula with Brač. Unfortunately, there's no connection yet. And I can only tell you how many football games had to be delayed just because these island connections didn't exist among the islanders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40167	Thank you very much. I think the secretary of state has spoken and we could end up, conclude the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-06-0.u40168	Second, the proposal for a transport law in line and occasional coastal maritime transport. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a transport law in line and occasional coastal maritime transport is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. I find that with 100 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 2 against the proposed conclusion.
