ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-14-0.u36717	And we move to the last item of the agenda; - Proposal for a decision on the adoption of the position of the Republic of Croatia on the rules of the Stabilisation and Association Council between the European Union and Croatia, including the rules of the Stabilisation and Association Committee; the motion for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Article 4 is replaced by the following: The law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Croatian Parliament on the proposed decision, draws a conclusion. This will be explained briefly by the Government's State Secretary of the Foreign Ministry, Mr. Gordan Bakota, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-14-0.u36718	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Agreement and Stabilisation and Association between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union of their Member States entered into force on 1 February 2005. Among other things, it also predicts the formation of several joint bodies. Stabilisation and Association Councils, Stabilisation and Association Committees and Stabilisation and Association Sub-Committee. The first Council meeting will be held in Luxembourg on 26 April 2005. The first decision of the Council should be adopted on the same day, i.e. the adoption of the Council's rules of procedure. In the Council's rules of procedure, among other ways, of the work of the Chairman-in-Office of the Council, how many times each year they meet during the 12 months thereafter, the chair of representatives of the Council of the European Union and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be appointed. The mode of operation of the secretariat is defined, the languages of the work are also defined as the way of correspondence, the way of addressing it in writing. It's a matter of cost. And also this decision and conclusion determines the way the board works, the other body I mentioned. The Committee actually serves to prepare meetings and debate councils. The implementation of the decisions of the Council itself shall ensure the functioning of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it shall consider issues, submit proposals, so as to ensure full application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement rested in a manner institutional dialogue between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. That decision shall also take effect on the appointment of the chairpersons and members of those councils and committees. So in the up until, it is proposed to draw conclusions on the appointment of the chairman of the Stabilisation and Association Council, which is Minister Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. The members of the Council shall also be members of the Council itself. Members of the Committee serving as technical assistance to the work of the Council headed by the main negotiator Vladimir Drobnjak. The board members themselves and also the Subcommittee. In this respect, as I have already said to these decisions, the proposals for decisions are instrumentalising our relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union through the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-14-0.u36719	I thank the Secretary of State. I'm opening a debate. No one answered for the hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide on this wheel and the others at 1400 hours. So break, break of session until 2:00 p.m. Please don't forget the voting keys. At 1400 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-14-0.u36720	Proposal for a Decision adopting the position of the Republic of Croatia on the rules of the Stabilisation and Association Council between the European Union and Croatia, including the rules of procedure of the Stabilisation and Association Committee. The debate is concluded, I am voting on the following conclusion: It is noted that the proposal for a decision to adopt the position of the Republic of Croatia on the rules of the Stabilisation and Association Council procedure between the European Union and Croatia, including the rules of the Stabilisation and Association Committee procedure, is being taken into account. Please engage. We can vote. I'll get you a score. I find that the proposed conclusion has been accepted by 100 votes for, 4 abstentions and 3 against. We have another point – Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Competition Protection Council. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 31. The law on the protection of competition. This is a proposal to complete the Competition Protection Council with a fifth member. The government has proposed to appoint Mr Mladen Cerovac as a member of this Council. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
