ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33498	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I am together with the Croatian delegation in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the European Integrations, Culture Minister Mr. Biskupić, acting not as Minister but as the international secretary of the HDZ, was the meeting of the European People's Party in which he represented our party and Secretary of State Hide Bištovic as well as the chief negotiator, Vladimir Drobnjak, was in Brussels for two days to try first of all to see whether a consensus of the European Ministers would be reached, so the Council of Ministers, and in the preparation of this ambassador, the permanent representatives of the so-called "European Ministers" will be reached. The body of Correper. About the assessment of whether Croatia fully co-operates with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague or not. For the sake of our public, it is necessary to clarify what was the course of events and what was decided yesterday and therefore I am grateful for the opportunity to speak in this House of Commons. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers had to decide not to start negotiations or not because it was decided by the European Council on 18 December to start negotiations today, that they were to begin today on 17 March. Yesterday, it was necessary to decide whether there was full co-operation between Croatia and the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, a decision on the Koreper and the Council of Ministers. Since all such decisions are taken by consensus in the European Union, therefore, by unanimity if there is no country that would raise its hand against one or another decision, there is no unanimity in the decision, and then that decision cannot apply, the European Council of 18 December. And the whole debate was held on Koreper and the Council of Ministers on whether Croatia co-operated or not. I want first of all to highlight the position of the Croatian government and I believe that you share it with me that Croatia does not want Europe to be divided on the issue of Croatia and on the issue of our perspective of joining the European Union. We want all European Union countries to be unique in the assessment that Croatia needs the Union and that the Union needs Croatia. It's not a one-way street, it's a two-way street, and that's why we tried in the talks, today it's called modern lobbying, but in conversations with key people exactly those representatives of those countries who had the opposite opinion of our conversation, to clarify evidence of full cooperation. Ten days ago, we did a diplomatic precedent, we sent a letter to the President of the Republic, the President of the Croatian Parliament and I as Prime Minister to all the presidents of the states, the parliaments, the government in which we shot our sights and our evidence of full cooperation. It has also been clarified in the last two days that full co-operation does not mean that the only remaining case that has been opened and that is the case of General Gotovina, that it does not mean that it must be in The Hague as a prerequisite for the start of negotiations, although some have interpreted the decision of December and so, however, it has been achieved by God I can say that although some have been a little abstention but the agreement and consent that this does not mean it but that it means that Croatia is really doing everything. Another thing to say is that there was a danger that, with the existence or absence of consensus, the issue of the negotiating framework was tied up and there were some who suggested that in their decision whether negotiations would begin today on 17 March, if there was a consensus on this, then we also adopt the negotiating framework. Others have represented the position if we do not agree, if there is no agreement, if we do not reach agreement on whether Croatia fully cooperates or not, but then we still have to adopt the negotiating framework. The second power that represented the position won but won in a way that reached consensus and that all foreign ministers eventually agreed on it yesterday. I consider it a further step and our progress towards approaching the Union. Our public as well as the Croatian Parliament, this High House was not particularly concerned with this issue and this issue of the negotiating framework, but I can inform you now that it is adopted, when it is finished and can no longer be changed, that there have been large discussions on the content and date of the adoption of the negotiating framework. In content, it was problematic that some countries wanted the objective of the negotiations to be opened, so it is not defined that the objective of the negotiations was Croatia's full membership in the European Union, it was represented by some countries, let it be put aside. And these same countries represented the thesis, that is, the view that the negotiating framework should be adopted on the day when negotiations are estimated to begin, the same today that one and the other document should be adopted. It ended in the end so that a negotiating framework was adopted that clearly contains a few things. First of all, the process of Croatia was not stopped yesterday but continued with the adoption of the framework for negotiations. That's clear. Secondly, the conclusions of the Council of Ministers also highlighted yesterday the unequivocal perspective of Croatia's membership in the European Union, which further confirmed the commitment of the European Union to Croatia's accession. It's saying it stands. Third, they reiterated the need to call a bilateral intergovernmental conference to start negotiations. They once again said the intergovernmental conference should be called. This may seem to someone to be empty formulations, no, they reflect very much the content and reflect the European Union's relationship to us. Fourthly, what I said was a negotiation, fifthly, within the framework of the negotiations, it is said that the common objective of the negotiations is to join Croatia's European Union. And the sixth, which is extremely important and I will say that because several colleagues at the last session and the National Committee, as well as the informal meetings of our party presidents, have asked a question of individual approach. Once again in this negotiating framework, an individual approach is stressed, and I am now quoting the negotiating framework that "the negotiations will be based on Croatia's own achievements and that their speed will depend on Croatia's progress in meeting its membership obligations". That's what's good and now it's not good, which is why, of course, we can't express our satisfaction and that's what we really think in the government that we've done everything we can to solve this last open case with the International Criminal Court in The Hague and our assessment is that there is full cooperation and our assessment was that this full cooperation does not mean that Gotovina is in The Hague. At least that's what we managed to reach consensus on everyone because today, since yesterday, there will be no more interpretation that Gotovina is in The Hague, there was even one interpretation that Gotovina in The Hague is equal to meeting that condition. There was an interpretation even from the President of the European Union of Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Junker, who was distributed in our media where it was said that an ultimatum was put before Croatia, and that it means that Gotovina in The Hague means full co-operation. Yesterday Junker denied it, I think it was in our media and on Croatian television that it was denied, so since yesterday, ladies and gentlemen don't underestimate it, let's not exaggerate it, but since yesterday, the Union has a common view that full co-operation does not mean that Gotovina is in The Hague. Full cooperation means that Croatia is doing everything possible to solve the last case. Now, what the decision was made yesterday, I think it is extremely important to stress that and I also ask you for this fine distinction that has a lot of political significance. No decision was taken yesterday to postpone the negotiations. No decision was taken yesterday that must be taken by consensus on whether Croatia is cooperating or not. That was on the agenda! And since one group of countries said that Croatia fully cooperated, that another group of countries said that Croatia did not cooperate, there was a stalemate which means Ipso facto cannot start negotiations because it should be agreeable. So there was no vote on whether negotiations should be postponed. On that point, at that dissent, it should be exorcised because it would be much worse. De facto it is the same, they do not start negotiations today, but in a political sense there was no vote on the postponement of the negotiations. In a political sense, it should be said that this is an extremely important distinction, that yesterday it was voted on whether there is full co-operation or not. I would like to thank here from this pay phone those who represented this position and who in our reports have convinced us of the full cooperation and full commitment of Croatia to international obligations and Croatian law, Croatian laws, and this is the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the International Criminal Court in The Hague. But I also want to thank those who were critical. And I announce increased dialogue with these countries because we want to discuss and reach a common goal, and that is to assess that there is full co-operation. We do not want Europe to be caught in an enlargement project on one such thing that is important but that cannot be crucial in the perspective of European enlargement and European unification. In particular, it cannot be crucial if a country meets that criterion and I have explained to you just before that a consensus has been reached on what full cooperation means. Therefore, Croatia will continue to do its utmost to resolve this case but we will step up our efforts not to speak for months in the coming days, that dialogue with those countries that believe full co-operation has not been achieved in the coming days. The next occasion will be at the European People's Party's summit on Tuesday, the association policy that the Croatian Democratic Union belongs to, along with Croatia's Peasant Party and the Democratic Centre, and I think it will be a further opportunity to put Croatia on the agenda once again. I personally believe that this is, that this is not a good decision, that it is not good that there is no consensus on co-operation. Because I am sure that the negotiations have started today, that they have opened themselves up to an international conference at which our foreign and European integration ministers would participate and read our general views that this would be much better than waiting for more. Croatia deserves the start of negotiations on the issue. And I want to express my satisfaction that there is a really good and fruitful consensus on this issue in the political parties in the Croatian Parliament. I would also like to express my satisfaction that the National Committee, chaired by Ivica Racan, had its constituent session last week, and I think our task is to continue this way, and the task of the executive is to convince those who still doubt full cooperation that it is indeed a fact. I believe that this is not a blow to the Euroentusians or that the wind in the cores of the Eurosceptics is not, I believe, that the debate of the Euroscruisers, the Eurosceptics and the Euroscrealists that most of us must go further, that we must really consider all aspects of entering full membership, that we must prepare well for negotiations, especially for those chapters that we are absolutely interested in achieving exceptions or transitional periods as other countries have done. I don't think we should be discouraged by this at all. I said yesterday in a television show that I see that the glass is half empty, it's about access, I'm always about having a positive approach not to be fooled, but that we have a positive approach and I think that the fact that we have achieved the negotiating framework, that it was adopted yesterday, that the scenario of postponement has been avoided and that it would lead us to a very dangerous zone, I don't want to talk because it's about one country and we want it well, and we want that country as well as Croatia with all good and friendly relations and all the success and prosperity of their people, but we have to take care of ourselves. And that's why I think it's a good thing that we did it yesterday, that it's a good success, that it's another step forward, but of course it's not a good thing that the Intergovernmental Conference isn't open today. Therefore, I can assure this House that the Croatian Government will do everything possible in the next, next time that is ahead of us to enter an even deeper dialogue with those countries that need to be talked with, and I am pleased to express that it is contrary to the writings of some media, not only of the Croatian, but also of the European ones, because even those four neighbours who are closer, some further, Hungary, Slovenia, Slovakia and Austria even called themselves a gang of four, associated with Chinese some, etc., a gang of four. If that were the case, yesterday eight countries spoke those listed today in the media did not all speak against, less spoke against, but should not be counted. We want a consensus, we want Europe not to be shared on us. And when she came, only that information, all off the record of our sources, when the debate came on the negotiating framework, along with these eight other 7.8 that were extremely sharp, were determined to adopt the negotiating framework. We can say that around 15, 16 countries spoke about Croatia yesterday which encourages us but we want all 25 to speak for Croatia. And I mention this as information, as information, not as a motive to start counting now who's who. I am convinced that even these countries that thought yesterday were not given full cooperation, that they would soon change their minds, but it is up to us to point them out and I am still a moderate optimist and I agree with those who say they shouldn't, that they shouldn't give up. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that good days stand before Croatia, that there are challenging days because, according to the very interest of the journalists yesterday who followed these events in Brussels at the press conference, there were about a hundred of them that I gave after the performance on the European Parliament's foreign-political committee. I would like to say, therefore, how important this is, how important it is for Europe and Croatia. Yesterday, I received an invitation from the President of the Foreign Political Committee of the European Parliament in which they were yesterday after their work, Mimica and Jandrokovic, and I received an invitation to speak there and give an assessment. I had an opening statement, after which one 15, 20, perhaps 20 MPs had questions to answer, and then the foreign policy committee concluded that the President of the Foreign Affairs Committee and a special one from the European People's Party, and that is interesting to say, and a special rapporteur from the Socialist Group, the Social Democratic Group in the European Parliament, would write together a letter of support to Croatia and a request to the European Council and to the Commission that negotiations be immediately opened. This is the joint conclusion of the Foreign and Political Committee, so both groups that are in charge, I don't think the Liberals had anything to do with it, but these two will sign Elmar Broke as president of the Foreign and Political Committee and Hannes Freedom as a special rapporteur, one from the European People's Party, one from the Social Democratic Association. I would also like to call you, to know that, there is a resolution of the European People's Party in which it is sought unreserved and without delay from the start of negotiations and in which it is claimed that Croatia meets all the conditions and in which it is asked of the European Union if the President of the Parliament and you want us to distribute that you have a resolution, however, it is the strongest fraction in Parliament which has 270 MPs, unlike the social democratic option that has about 200, but therefore it is very important that we have received one clear support that says that an ultimate start, means an unsustainable, unreservable start of negotiations, is required and that this decision must be exclusively in the European Union, that it cannot rely on any other institution, person or organisation. Or countries not members of the European Union. In that sense, I am sure that the debate that is happening these days and which has been on the agenda in the European Union will go on these days, we will strengthen all our activities. This does not mean, however, that I respond immediately to, and to other issues being raised, it does not mean at all that putting into another plan or forgetting the domestic political scene, the economy, even more I am convinced that, with our efforts on the domestic agenda, this approach to the Union will have an absolutely beneficial impact on the development of the economy. Already in the media today, you have a guide to rating agencies, will the delay of the start of negotiations reflect negatively on Croatia's rating? The answer was very clear: No. Therefore, it is extremely important information, but the opposite will be the case. I am convinced that on the day the negotiations with Croatia begin, Croatia's international community rating, and that means financial institutions as well, and then the implications of the domestic stage will be greater, that we will have a much better, much better situation. Joining the European Union or negotiations with the European Union will not solve our domestic problems. It can only be beneficial for them to act and influence them. We must do our homework on our own, but I remain confident especially after seeing the ladies and gentlemen standing up for Croatia, we do not have the right to give up, we do not have the right to discourage. I think we're right and we have every reason to look forward with optimism. We didn't start negotiations today, but we'll start them very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33499	I thank the Prime Minister. Since this is a special political and business moment, those who have applied on behalf of the clubs should find one measure themselves, according to their own judgment, in which way they will give one review or one, their position and we have the first respected representative Frano Pivolić, the club of representatives of HSLS-DC-LS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33500	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. You should be brave when it's hard and when the moments are awkward. I believe this is now an opportunity for all of us to show courage, wisdom and determination at this moment. At the beginning of this short presentation, I would like to thank President Ivo Sanader, Government, Ministers and all those who have put their best efforts into this process of bringing the European Union closer, or this project, to the European Union. I would also like to thank former Prime Minister Ivica Racan and his government. I would also like to thank these countries that have explicitly supported us with the meaning of neighbouring Republic of Slovenia, Austria, Hungary, Slovakia, small states of Baltic Estonia, Lithuania, Ireland and Greece. Croatia has had a lot of difficult times throughout its history. She was often blackmailed, but still managed to survive all those moments. So this is also the inconvenience we now have and expectations that have not come true for us, not to be seen as some defeat but to raise our heads up. It seems to me that this kind of thing has taken us all to sort of ground up, sober the way, that entering the European Union will not be so simple and easy, that there are a lot of these obstacles and to jump these obstacles should be prepared and this is not the way nor the project of Ivo Sanader or Ivica Racan, it is the project of the Croatian people. We could see through this, in fact, who our real friends are, or who our real partners are. There are countries we call true friends, but above all it seems to me that a partner relationship should be seen, and anyone who is welcome in this partnership relationship. I don't think there's room for any special joy at this time for those we call Eurosceptics in Croatia, but there's no need to be particularly sad or we who call ourselves Eurooptimists or Euroentusians. I would ask the Prime Minister and all those working on this project to stick to two principles. Not to allow Croatia and anyone on behalf of Croatia to negotiate to kneel before the Euroburocrats, but also not to allow any humiliation and humiliation. Croatia is a small but proud and decent country and I believe all those who represent that they should stick to these principles. Because if it's the opposite, I believe our ancestors won't forgive us, but they probably won't forgive the present generation either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33501	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rožić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33502	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the government. At this hour about half an hour ago, a press conference of the Croatian Party of Rights began on the decision of the Council of Ministers of the European Union here in Zagreb at the Westin Hotel and let me, of course, let me, that is why there are no members of the HSP Club here, but I will not have the Prime Minister and you all together have to read tomorrow in the newspaper which our position here to present. So the Council of Ministers of the European Union, as known, has decided to postpone Croatia's negotiations with the European Union. The formal reason is the so-called incomplete co-operation of Croatia with The Hague tribunal. The postponement of Croatia's negotiations with the European Union will have adverse consequences for both Croatia and the wider region. Because it is obvious, by our court, in part of the international community, that Croatia is the first to wait for Turkey, and then Serbia-Montenegro to start negotiations. The decision of the Council of Ministers of the European Union is incorrect and unacceptable for us because it is not based on objective truth and facts. Such a decision completely ignores the fact that since the declaration of independence, Croatia has made exceptional efforts to make its development according to European standards, because it was finally one of the objectives of the Croatian state creation project. We are particularly protesting against the member states of the European Union that opposed the start of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, although they have at least by our court of moral right to share lessons in Croatia on European standards and which have subjected general principles of justice to their narrow national interests in these areas. The HSPs also express their deep gratitude to all those Member States of the European Union who have recognised such a policy as incorrect and unfair and have assessed it as such. However, for the newly created situation and a real very difficult position for Croatia, the government of the Republic of Croatia is also extremely responsible. The decision of the Council of Ministers of the European Union is the largest government of the Republic of Croatia since its entire policy was based on the rapid start of Croatia's negotiations with the European Union and the conclusion of these negotiations in 2007. So before the regular parliamentary elections. In doing so, the Government of the Republic of Croatia systematically ignored the economic development of the problem of unemployment, the reconstruction of large public systems, health reform, judicial reform, and in particular the promotion of production. The government of the Republic of Croatia has committed a whole series of wrong moves, i.e. the entire strategy of the shortcut towards European integration, was wrongly set up. First, the government underestimated retired General Ante Gotovina's problem and treated Croatia's co-operation with The Hague tribunal at the beginning of its term as only a legal issue. Although this particular issue has proved to be a first-class political issue. With its actions, the Government has not tried to solve this problem in practice nor has it tried to address the legal path it has been called upon if it does not view the fact that, without any legal resistance, the government has accepted inadmissible political assessments of Croatia's release as a criminal offence in The Hague indictments against Generals Gotovina, Markac and Cermak. The government of the Republic of Croatia has transferred the problem to the Ministry of Justice, which has proved completely incompetent and ineffective to address the problem. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not take any concrete legal measures based on the Statute of the Hague Court to prove that so-called Brijuni transcripts on the basis of which the Hague indictment against General Gotovina was also written are not authentic although for more than a year the HSP has been firmly insisting on establishing objective truth through its proposal to establish an investigative commission in the Croatian Parliament to determine these important facts. Unfortunately, this business was based only on the criminal charges of General Gotovina's attorney, the State's Attorney's office only started a month ago but very indecisive and slow, which is the best evidence that this is a purely political decision. The establishment of authenticity by our court would certainly help Croatia to address General Gotovina's problem at least in those countries that supported the Republic of Croatia in the fight to start negotiations with the European Union. HSPs have been fiercely opposed all these years of politics under which civil war was under way in Croatia and not classical aggression on Croatia. At no cost can Croatia agree to a guilty verdict which actually punishes the Croatian people for establishing and defending their country. The government of the Republic of Croatia has done nothing concrete in the activities that should help protect and defend Croatian national interests in the Hague tribunal. First of all, in the form of a friend of the court. Unfortunately, nothing has been done in the field so far, and especially not in the rejection of political parts of the indictment against General Gotovina, but has just opened an inadmissible campaign against General Gotovina, his family, his friends, using unorthodox and illegal means. Contrary to such behaviour and the latest decision by the Hague tribunal in the cases of General Markac and Cermak, they say the indictment is possible to change, just as the Croatian Party of Rights has proposed. In addition, against General Gotovina, the indictment was once changed for his benefit without his presence in The Hague. Third. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has allowed the main Hague prosecutor, not the Court of Justice. The Permanent Judicial Council assess whether Croatia is fully co-operating with The Hague tribunal or not. Not only did the government not use the legal options provided by the Hague tribunal's Statute and by the court's rules of conduct, but mainly by the so-called Court of Justice. Rule 7BIS rather than its permissive policy has just contributed to the European Union's acceptance of the practice by which prosecutor Carla del Ponte is the only rapporteur of the Hague tribunal. It's a huge failure of this government, and it has to bear a lot of responsibility for us right now. Fourth. The Croatian government incorrectly informed the Croatian public three months ago that the date of the start of the negotiations was not conditional and that it was an unconditional date for Croatia to start negotiations with the European Union. This certainly questioned the government of the Republic of Croatia's credibility. To trace the error of the approach strategy to the European Union as we call it a shortcut in the HSP, and now I would add that it is a bit of a show that even a strategy has been made, a whole series of others have been made by our assessment of bad political decisions and moves such as. Giving up the application of the fishing ecological zone to members of the European Union to the detriment of Croatian national interests. Fully abandoning economic reform to sign unfavourable stand by arrangement with the IMF, increasing Croatia's external debt from 24 billion to 30 billion US dollars. Or 80.5% of GDP, which is more than any new member of the European Union, including Bulgaria and Romania, which are likely to become in 2007. The government of the Republic of Croatia continued to be in charge of spending and paying off old debt, not of launching production and reducing unemployment. Unemployment is increasing and as an eclectic example of the shortcut policy, we would like symbolically to warn here that there is only one irrational situation in Croatia. And this is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has additionally committed itself to large financial amounts by providing funds for the return programme of refugees to Croatia and at the same time former Croatian exiles have been left at the mercy of Croatian courts where they are normally forced to pay long-term rents for the use of abandoned Serbian property, based on decisions made by Croatian state bodies. In our firm position, it is the twilight of political responsibility and national solidarity. Fifth. The Government of the Republic of Croatia should, in great error, list the permission to destroy the intelligence community system and, in particular, agreeing to make requests and instructions to the Republic of Croatia's foreign intelligence services, including recommendations for the distribution of officers, judges and senior state officials. Cooperation with foreign intelligence services is necessary, but accepting the ultimate demands of any foreign service that absolutely undermines national sovereignty is illegal. Sixth. The Croatian party assesses that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has left relations with the United States with the only real world power and relations with China and the Russian Federation of Permanent Security Council members. The government of the Republic of Croatia apparently played on only one card. A map of the start of negotiations with the European Union, and in this game it has lost and it is in our court unacceptable gambling with the fate of the Croatian people. What Croatia should do next months, despite its dissatisfaction with the delay in negotiations, the Croatian Party does not support general anti-European or euro phobic reactions, although we point out concerns about the policy of some EU member states that have played a major role in the delay of negotiations and we express our gratitude to all those EU Member States that have firmly supported the Republic of Croatia in this process. Croatia must clearly express its dissatisfaction with the decision of the Council of Ministers of the European Union and concerns over the policy of some EU members who have opposed the decision-making based on their narrow national interests in these areas. HSP estimates that the prevailing Euroscepticism in the Republic of Croatia is more protesting and less real. As an expression of opposition partly directed against the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and partly against individual members of the European Union. But we hold that not everyone is evil for evil. We can conclude that for the first time since the release of occupied parts of Croatia, the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia is returning to the area of real internal economic, political, social relations in the home yard. In this direction, we hold that Croatia should continue to prepare for the start of negotiations with the European Union, which is more important to continue or start the final reform of the judiciary, health and state administration. Croatia needs a new economic policy, a new vision of economic development. We need all of this not because we expect negotiations to start, but because of the final process that will begin to solve the most important Croatian problems. And for the end of Mrs and gentlemen, HSP believes that the government in this system and with policy so far is no longer a guarantee of the successful leadership of Croatia. In view of the danger of the collapse of the Croatian economy and the growing social tensions, Croatia needs a new development economic programme adapted to new circumstances on the principles of justice, solidarity and subsidiarity. And contrary to a programme based on an unfavourable arrangement with the IMF, which does not address the problems of growing unemployment, the slowdown of exports, the decommissioning of Croatian society and the poverty of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia has again stated that there is no alternative to delaying negotiations, we propose a turn-off of internal and external policies based on these proposals or calling for early parliamentary elections, unless Croatia starts effective negotiations with the European Union by June of this year at the latest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33503	Before I give the Prime Minister my word, we have several corrections to incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Agent Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33504	Dear Mr. Vice President and Prime Minister. A representative of the HSP Club said everything incorrect, and I can't quite correct everything, so I'm just one thing right, which is that it's the biggest failure of the Croatian government. It is not a success at all or Mr Rozic did not, it is not a failure at all, but success is precisely that we have received the framework of negotiations, which Croatia did not insist on real division within the European Union. And finally, given that I do not die to correct other things, I want to say that I did not expect today to be an attempt to politicise and even bring down the Croatian government. ... Marriage won't work. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33505	Mr. Rozic, you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33506	Mr. Bebić is quite clear that Mr. Jarnjak has not corrected any incorrect allegations at all. In 209, it corrects my opinion and reviews of the Croatian Party of Rights. [[Employment: Article.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33507	Well, you could say about that, but as you all know we're all doing, so don't look at it just when someone else does it, but look at it, and when you answer it, you're correcting an incorrect quote that isn't even an incorrect quote. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Frano Matušić. And please stick to correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In a series of incorrect allegations imputed to the Croatian government, allow me to correct two. It is incorrect that the Croatian government could influence the European Commission, the European Union, whether Croatia is working with The Hague fully or not. So that's completely incorrect. Croatia couldn't influence that, it's quite clear. Another inaccuracy is that the Croatian government interpreted it as an unconditional start of negotiations. That is not true because we knew in December that our conditions are full of co-operation with The Hague, only that we have interpreted this cooperation in the way the European Commission is interpreting it today, means that all Croatian institutions are doing their job, not that Gotovina is in The Hague. And that is a big difference, and it is incorrect that you are trying to impute the Croatian government among others.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33509	Thank you. Next correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable deputy president Milinovic Darko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33510	It was countless, I would say, incorrect allegations. I'll fix two. The government of the Republic of Croatia has not reacted that the Storm is a criminal organisation. So many times, ladies and gentlemen of the prime minister and these government and HDZ president have reacted, and recently on television, that Storm is a heroic, magnificent military redistributive action aimed at one single, liberating occupied parts of Croatia from Serbia-Montenegro and the Yugoslav People's Army. And that's the same answer to your finding that it hasn't been responded to the political parts of the indictment against General Gotovina countless times. And it's not really our fault that you're sitting on your ears or you won't hear it or that you want to abuse the government of the Republic of Croatia, and the former government said that there are unacceptable parts for the Republic of Croatia in the indictment against General Gotovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33511	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33512	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I ask you best not to make things right that I didn't say. It says here that I said something and then it corrects what I didn't say. [[Intruder: So look at the stenogram.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33513	Okay, we'll take a look. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33514	Dear Mr. President of a series of incorrect allegations I have a chance to point out only two. The first is that this government has not taken the problem of General Gotovina seriously enough and has not worked on the problem enough. Well, I have personally witnessed that this government has been working day and night on this problem in countless contacts both by the prime minister and by all other officials. ... I've recorded your words. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's said, let me. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'd like to take my chance on a speech. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33515	Please. Please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33516	Can I go on? Thank you very much. The other incorrect allegation is...... I'd like an additional minute for Mr. Agent's incorrect intervention. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Another thing that is incorrect is that the government has ignored the economy. I don't have to talk about it, let the statistics talk about it. And the most incorrect allegation that Mr. MP said was that during Prime Minister Sanader's term of office, unemployment was increased. If you are looking at the December 31st report, unemployment has been reduced by 2.6% compared to the previous year. And if you analyze individual moons then seasonally, of course, there are deviations. Other economic indicators also show that this government has put a great deal of its efforts into progress. So we see that for the first time there was a 4% increase in industrial production, that for the first time there was an increase in imports, a decrease in imports compared to exports, that for the first time the real salary was increased by 3.6%. We can argue with other indicators, but time does not allow this incorrect assumption to be politicized and not based on facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33517	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33518	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must express my regret and, on the other hand, the expectation in this performance by the Croatian Party of Rights and Mr. Representative Rožić. He read a pamphlet that is very well prepared and that has nothing to do with the current situation but with a politicizing debate, or the intention to politicise one thing in order to get votes. Such a policy, the Croatian Democratic Community has never led because it is not a responsible policy for Croatia. Because it is not a responsible policy for Croatia and we believe that it will not bring fruit as our rivals and political rivals expect from the Croatian party rights. So here it was brought forward I would agree with one of the MPs who said, with MP Jarnjak, brought out a whole series of untruths in this pamphlet. One of the truths is, for example, that we have concentrated only on getting the start date of the negotiations and that we have forgotten the economic situation in Croatia. It's a lie. In part, it was corrected by Dr. Hebrang's representative, the current Deputy Prime Minister. It is simply a lie because we have taken up a whole series of economic activities and at the end of the year it has proved that macroeconomic indicators are precisely the result of these efforts of the government's activities and efforts. You shouldn't be talking here right now, but maybe you should talk about that export grew three times faster than imports, that it's still not enough to cover the whole import we all know that, but we found it at a much lower level and it's much higher this year, that industrial production grew faster, that it was the best tourist season, that the number of employees had fallen in September below 300 thousand etc. etc. Therefore, it is not true, Mr. Rozic, that the Croatian government has concentrated only on this topic and has forgotten the economy at home. But that's what you disproved yourself in your last sentence. You said, quote me, don't quote me now, don't be offended if I didn't literally write down everything you said, but you said this: That the Croatian Party demands elections unless we get through June and start negotiations. So what you're telling us that we're doing now is you're setting us up as a condition because we won't, we're not doing it, and you're asking to start negotiations by June, but you're not asking us to do it. You're asking to start negotiations by June otherwise you're going to ask for elections, but we're not working on it enough, that's what we're doing right now, because it's not supposed to work on it, but it's a requirement that we do and now who's what, what policy is, where is consistency. Otherwise, I will be happy to listen to what one of your distinguished parties and you, as a distinguished representative, have told us, but I do not understand what you are asking me to do. Whether we're working on negotiations starting by June or not doing it the way we've done it so far because it's not good. You said one thing and the other, so I'd like to ask you to define yourself as one, so we'll take that seriously in HDZ, but it doesn't mean we'll take it. Secondly, you said that the Croatian government and that is a dangerous assessment that we will resolutely disprove and reject. As president of the Croatian government and as president of the Croatian Democratic Community, I firmly argue that we have done everything in defense of national interests in cooperation with The Hague. Evidence, eight indictees are now at large and defend themselves with freedom and it is evidence that we have formed a commission that will be amicus of the curate friends of the court in proceedings before the International Criminal Court in The Hague, and all of this by respecting Croatian laws, the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with The Hague and the United Nations Security Council Resolution, which is a member of Croatia. As I recall, the Croatian Party of Rights was absolutely to make Croatia a member of the United Nations. But I'm asking you a question now. Is it when you asked us to become a member of the United Nations, which Croatia has achieved under HDZ leadership? Did you think back then that we could only be a member where we fit, and when the UN brings a resolution, then we're no longer a member, so now I'm gonna get off this one, so I'm not behind the pay phone anymore. Is that what you mean? If we are a member of the United Nations, then we must respect the United Nations resolution. We can't be a member when it suits us, and then we can't be a member when it doesn't suit us. So it's my conclusion. You're politicizing the situation. I'm sorry that this is the case, but when we talk about national interests and the Homeland War, about the Homeland War in which they participated regardless of political commitment, all Croatian patriots from left to right. The only party who did not vote on the Declaration on Homeland in the Croatian Parliament was the Croatian Party of Rights. This Declaration, which we often call upon and which we take as the basis for the defense of the truth about the Homeland War, the defense of its character, which was liberatingly defensive and just. The only party that didn't sign it is you, I'm sorry. And in the end, you have the right to demand elections, there will be no elections. You have the right to ask for elections, but you will not watch this film and I can unfortunately end up with what I said yesterday when I was faced with Ante Djapic's request, which my grandmother wanted it to happen but that film to quote the Dalmatian Jarnjak, the sky watch.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33519	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33520	Mr. President, I answered on behalf of the club not for correcting an incorrect quote, now. Now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33521	But I have a correction. I have to resolve the question of correcting incorrect allegations sooner.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33522	We'll make it right. I ask you nicely, since Mr. Prime Minister has referred a few direct questions to both the HSP club and myself personally, I ask you a break of 10 minutes for the club that I can answer or five minutes for the club so I can answer those questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33523	Okay. And what about the corrections of incorrect allegations?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33524	We'll correct all the allegations in that answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33525	So you're withdrawing your proposals, requests to correct incorrect allegations?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33526	We're pulling, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33527	Okay. It's a five-minute stop. I'm sorry, ten minutes. Ten minutes off. MEETING AT 12:00 A.M. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. In the name of the HSP Club, respected representative Miroslav Rožić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33529	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister. Of course we asked as a club break so we could answer some of your questions that you asked here. First and foremost, it is absolutely incorrect to call a parliamentary democratic party, which is spoken in the Croatian Parliament, which contains evaluations and political views and parliamentary political parties a pamphlet. That's incorrect, of course acceptable but incorrect. NO, speaking of the term, then allow yourself to be used during that statement, HDZ has never been used in such a way as to collect voter favors and has never been used with pamphlets. I don't want to be, I get involved in this political incorrection but I'm sure your speech on the Split Riviera two years ago was a political pamphlet for vote-gathering and very cheap. Or expensive whatever you want. So it's about the pamphlet. This is not a matter of any pamphlet in the political evaluations of the Croatian Party's right to the government's work so far and of the assessment of the success of the work of the government, given that it has put everything on one map. To your question that you've asked quite theatrically here what you should be doing, only you haven't asked the question of who's crazy here, what we're asking of you, whether you're working until June or not, I'll answer you very simply. We ask of you, and that's what the statement says, and I read it, and I said that we ask you to continue working until June, but not just until June, but to finally turn to your country, your people and your problems in this country, even until June. Therefore, it is not an understanding of politics in a way that now needs to be done whether we are working until June on negotiations or not. Leave it to the foreign ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and those who are in charge of working on it, to deal with it, and you and the rest of your government turn to this country, the problems that exist in this country and work on it, do not just work on the date of the negotiations. That's the answer. Furthermore, when you said what we think, how to respect international regulations if we become a member of the United Nations, does that mean, you said we're entering the United Nations but then when we don't respond to their declarations then we come out, you say this from the United Nations, when we're back on the wing of the United Nations. Yes, no, Mr. Prime Minister, I'll tell you what we thought. Being a member of an international organization, even if it was a United Nations, does not mean blindly respecting the documents that someone else in that organization brings. Every member of the United Nations and Croatia can and must influence the documents brought into the United Nations, and even if they are not satisfied with those who have been adopted and have the right and the ability to change these documents, change their content, work on their change, etc., and do not understand politics or membership in an international organisation in either way, or listen or do not listen. Of course there's a big space between or-or there's a big space. Unfortunately, it wasn't done. Furthermore, you said we were the only party who didn't vote on the Homeland War Declaration here. We did not vote precisely because of article 6 and the Declaration that allowed The Hague prosecutor Carla Del Ponte to criminalise the actions "Blash" and "Storm" to investigate it and that Declaration we allowed the Hague Prosecutor's Office to take action "Blash" and "Storm" to belong under the authority of the Hague Prosecutor's Office and to investigate them. That's right, that's why we were against the Declaration. And what's the use of...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33530	Thank you, colleague Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33531	And what good is Mr. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33532	A colleague of Rosic's. You have five minutes you've had, you can't complete it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33533	Here's what I want to finish this sentence. And what was the benefit of this Declaration of Homeland War shows the fact that after that, the Flash and Storm were characterized as a criminal enterprise, that is, part of a criminal enterprise. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33534	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33535	Again with a number of incorrect allegations I will correct the one relating to the meeting in Split. Of course, it was no cheap vote buying, because the meeting in Split had clear messages, which are part of the Declaration in the Homeland War that you didn't even vote for.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33536	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader, please be my guest, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33537	I will begin the Honorable Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representatives. I will begin from this last finding by Mr. Rožić, who is at the very least, I will be very moderate, inappropriate and untrue that the adoption of the Homeland War Declaration has led to the fact that Flash and Storm are considered criminal operations. To investigate so that anyone in this world can explore he cannot change the truth about the homeland war. Anyone, of course, can, because the United Nations, and now I'm going to make it right for you when you say that the United Nations when they bring in some document that it can and doesn't have to. When a United Nations Security Council resolution is adopted, it is binding on all Member States. This does not mean that someone imposes or does not impose on us, if we are a member of the United Nations, then the United Nations Security Council resolutions and the United Nations General Assembly resolutions are binding on all countries. Sometimes those resolutions don't suit us sometimes, but we have to be aware that we don't have a choice. We will either be a full member of the United Nations or we will not be. Resolution 827 establishing the International Criminal Tribunal for Crimes in the former Yugoslavia is a binding resolution for all member states. As is the resolution and general assembly of 94, I do not know its number, this one I remembered the number of establishment, because I remember how much we worked on it and searched as Croatia is being formed by an international criminal court, to punish the crimes committed in Croatia. But I remind you that one of the key assumptions about "Blash" and "Storm" and that's what we often forget was the resolution of the United Nations General Assembly in 94, on the basis of which it was said that Croatia was occupied and that it was occupied areas. Therefore, when the resolution on the establishment of The Hague Court is, then we will not apply it, and when it comes to the General Assembly resolution, that it is occupied areas where Croatia has the right to free it, then it suits us. So we can't act like one. I'm sure HSP doesn't want to behave like that. That's what I'm trying to say very responsibly, so we don't give in to each other. But let's not even leave the impression that in one case we can be in, in one case against. I'm sure the HSPs don't see it that way. Secondly, you said that in my speech to one, I don't know how you said that I reacted inappropriately to your speech, because you said that it wasn't a pamphlet, but that it was an assessment of the government's work so far and you called it an incorrect reaction. And how am I supposed to call your reaction when today is not a debate about the government's work at all, and you said you were talking about it, but today is about my report from Brussels. What does the Brussels report have to do with the fact that you were very closely informed about the government's work there? I don't mind discussing the government's work. You know what business procedure is and you can put it on. But today's debate wasn't about the government's work, even though someone was incorrect, then it was you. And I'm staying on the record that it was the political pamphlet of one party looking for voters with one another, but that movie won't watch. Still, foreign service, I'm going to make it very clear one more time. Foreign service in Croatia will never tell my government or any other government who will do what. Croatia's cooperation in all fields from diplomatic to economic to intelligence with the international community should be, because we are part of this international community, but in this way you absolutely insult not my government, but the sovereignty of Croatia, it is not true, Mr. Rozic, what you said. That's what I told you on the current morning here corresponding to the president of your party, my government will never allow any international or foreign state or any intelligence community to say what they're going to do. I was chosen on the basis of the will of Croatian voters, with a far higher percentage than you have achieved and I represent a far higher percentage of Croatian citizens than you represent them. And make sure it stays that way in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33538	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33539	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. You said we used your report from Brussels here to discuss government work. Well, please, you didn't do anything else in Brussels, but I guess you were just doing that on your government's work. You did this in Brussels, you reported successes, your government's work, what you're going to do, you convinced that your government's successes ensure the start of negotiations. If you're not, then nothing. I was hoping that you were doing it in Brussels, that you were actually there reporting on the government's successes and therefore asking for negotiations to begin. Secondly, as far as the intelligence community is concerned, if you claim it's a lie, then I'll be delivering to you Mr. President or the HSP Club a report to the PoA that clearly stands out, if you accidentally threw it into the trash bin like Ivica Racan that Turk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33540	The next correction by the esteemed representative, Anto Djapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33541	Mr. Prime Minister, it is not true that we are not also discussing the work of the government, because in our statement on the postponement of the negotiations, it is more than decided, that the government has practically directed all its main activities to the start of the negotiations. The final objective of this government's programme is legitimate, which is legal to elect, to complete negotiations with the European Union by 2007 and that project, the programme, is practically subordinated to everything. We call it a shortcut policy. And as this is all subordinated, we estimate that you have made a number of other failures, and in the end this main goal has not been achieved at this stage of the government to begin negotiations. And there's no reason to be nervous and angry and it's not a pamphlet, a pamphlet might be easier to call you who are here... try to display failure as success. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Prime Minister, it is not true that we are not also discussing the work of the government, because in our statement on the postponement of the negotiations, it is more than decided, that the government has practically directed all its main activities to the start of the negotiations. The final objective of this government's programme is legitimate, which is legal to elect, to complete negotiations with the European Union by 2007 and that project, the programme, is practically subordinated to everything. We call it a shortcut policy. And as this is all subordinated, we estimate that you have made a number of other failures, and in the end this main goal has not been achieved at this stage of the government to begin negotiations. And there's no reason to be nervous and angry and it's not a pamphlet, a pamphlet might be easier to call you who are here... try to display failure as success. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33543	The next correction by the respected representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33544	I am also correcting the inaccuracies of the Prime Minister that our position is, so the Croatian party is a real pamphlet, and by this principle your speech would be a pamphlet, because you said you saved the European Union from dissipation. That you have saved the European Union from corruption. [[What if I were?]] That's what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33545	The next amendment, honourable representative of Ruza Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33546	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. You said you won the election and you got a lot more votes than we did. And the reason you got a lot more votes, because then you said quite differently, you got at the expense of what you were saying the election. Not at the expense of what you're doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33547	Honorable representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33548	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Let me just say a few words about, not just the Prime Minister's speech, but first of all about the subject. For which many of us in Croatian politics and in this House have put forth efforts that have indeed not been seen in the past periods of political life of Croatia, or have not been noticed. That's not a phrase. It is not a phrase that the fact of Croatia's reform on the European Union's path and of course a positive opinion of the Union on membership, candidacy and the start of negotiations have activated the best forces Croatia currently has in politics. I don't say everything, but best bet. You, Mr. Prime Minister, have been on your way to Brussels in the last few days to a mission you've actually done three months earlier. Three months ago, you were on an impossible mission at 12 months ago. Then you did something that wasn't real that could be done in these few days. Anyone seriously considering European political circumstances, Croatian political circumstances know that at that time you skipped something that was objectively not realistic that you could skip with the strength and condition in which we are today as a state. You tried to do it this time, not only on behalf of your government, but on behalf of people, on behalf of politics and politics in Croatia, who believes that the path towards Europe is not only a matter of membership, but at least a question of date, but a path to strengthening democratic, pro-European Croatian patriotism. And now allow me here, given the character of some tones discussed so far in the debate in which I have heard freedom from myself, although I would like someone else to say, in this context, in the context of work, a huge effort for democratic, Croatian, pro-European patriotism, to say the following, with some likely to be angered and some motivated by stronger reactions. For Europe to be ready, ladies and gentlemen doesn't mean for home to be ready. And ours, and our politics both here and outside this hall in the context of everything that's been going on in the last weeks and the last days in our public and the way and strengthening of right-wing forces, right-wing groups and right-wing circles on exactly that kind, I think, I think we need to find an adequate answer. Secondly, Mr. Prime Minister, that by any chance we were able to negotiate, that... The conference is today and if the negotiations really started today, I believe that a good part of our citizens would say that's good, that's good, but maybe they wouldn't be fascinated by that fact as we're fascinated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because they really expect more than that. And now, allow me, some colleagues have already said that one way or another in previous speeches, and we have told each other on several occasions in each other's conversations. I think it's time we turned to Croatia. I think it is time to start speaking to Croatia, I think, that it is necessary to see the fact that our citizens, that our people, that our country is asking for the Prime Minister, the President of the State to address it in a speech not only of encouragement, but of a speech from which it will clearly be made clear, that Croatia is the first concern, that the situation in Croatia is the first concern of both the Government and the Parliament, and at this point I seem to miss, such a speech, such a message. Even today, here today in the debate over the date and the report. It would be much more fruitful in my sense, rather than adding up and subtracting countries in Europe and their views to really turn around and send a message to our own people. And the message is certainly clear, that we failed in the morning or at the beginning of the day, or that we couldn't get for breakfast, it's quite certain that we'll be able to get by the end of the day and it's quite certain that we'll get for dinner. But let us, however, yesterday we had a brief digression, yesterday we had a visit, thanks to Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Arlovic, as president of the Croatian-Polish Friendship Group, to the representatives of the House of Representatives and the Senate of Poljski Seim with whom we exchanged opinions and on various issues including the issue of their experience, the accession of the Union. At one point in time, the mood in the Union was barely slightly more than 30% in support of the government. And to ask what they've done to change these things. We got Mr. Tadic, the honorary representative of HSP, is and I got the answer of the following species. First, we spoke with our bishops, and they went to Brussels and held talks in Brussels that were certainly good for both Poland and Brussels and for those who exchanged experiences about what the Union is, which is Poland and what is the position of the Church within the Union. Secondly, we organised a visit to key rural farming organisations both in Brussels and in other European centres, after which Polish peasants and their key representatives realized that not only did they live better in Europe but that they were constantly and constantly edifying and looking for even better. That in this sense, Europe is a place where it really is a good place, in which it is living well, and in which politics is used to make life even better, and everyone does as much as possible to live as possible. If the Poles after that, the parishioners of the village, the hosts, in a year or two, turned the whole mood and mobilized the nation for the job, so I think we can do the same. Whether it is that way or otherwise it is a question, but one thing is certain after all this: Europe is not a project and cannot be a project of only the Croatian political elite. Europe must be a project and should be a project because the Croatian political elite will turn this into a daily way of dealing with the interests and aspirations of all our citizens. If you insist on it, Mr. Prime Minister, and I have no doubt that you will, if this is how Europe is placed in Croatia, I do not doubt the most recent start of negotiations and of course do not doubt the successes in these negotiations and I have no doubt that the efforts we have made so far will not be diminished because of the fact that we cannot celebrate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33549	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33550	Mr. President, Mr. Pupovac said I quote, "It is not the same for home ready and for Europe ready," finished the quote. This is not only incorrect but also inconclusive and irresponsible for one representative who is under the oath of the Croatian National Assembly, and his statement reminds me of nothing less than Pupavljeni wept, after plan Z-4, which he wrote about 20 days ago in "Nacional". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33551	Dear Vice-President Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS Clubs, PGS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33552	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Let me start with what I think is a fact and maybe it could have been a little bit lost here in this debate, which is that what we've been through is a failure. So it's bad that we haven't started negotiations, and it's bad that the negotiations have been postponed no matter what the reason. So we find ourselves in a situation that is not good for us, which we need to look straight in the eye and see what and how from that situation further turn it into what would be a good situation for us. Let's first look at the situation from a technical point of view or technically where we're in a situation. Technically, I think it's easier than political. The technical conclusions of the European Council, the advice relating to Croatia as it is called here, say that Croatia and the European Union are ready to accept Croatia into their membership and that Croatia is welcome, say that the framework for negotiations is appropriate and that I agree with those who have said it is a positive shift because if you remember or if you have followed it closely enough, you will know that four countries have been active against the adoption of the negotiating framework in this form in which it is proposed and wanted further political debates. Meanwhile, the four countries have adopted the negotiating framework as defined and so it is one decision that is certainly a positive shift in basic for us to a bad and negative decision. This means that the position of the prosecution or the position of the court on which the Council will adopt its opinion, but only taking into account one element or one element in the whole series of criteria, which is an element of co-operation with the tribunal. So not considering all the other elements and finally one provision in this, in these conclusions which is not, technically has no meaning at all, but I don't think it should be skipped politically and is not irrelevant, which is that these conclusions came into the conclusion that although there was no unanimity in starting negotiations with Croatia there was no unanimity in that these negotiations did not begin. So, technically, it doesn't mean anything because technically there has to be unanimity to start negotiations, and everything else is a delay, but from a political point of view is one positive signal and the fact that it's come to the conclusion that it's positive. So technically we have a little positive shift, we have a basically bad situation from which we now have to go very intensively to work further. Slovenia, as we know, has been preparing 18 months for the start of negotiations, what we have been doing for three months now. So we have something to do to prepare and keep pace and strengthen the pace of domestic reforms in presenting the whole thing to the local public and in cooperation with the tribunal or about, in building the credibility of the Croatian government. In my opinion, we're in a much harder situation than technically. We are politically in a situation where the absolutely extremist right in Croatia has seen it as a signal that its times are returning and this symptom of the initiative to form a political party's military wing to the initiative contained in those monstrous discussions on in vitro or artificial fertilisation. In this range, in the reviewing ideas of spelling and language, therefore, in all its range of these initiatives that have appeared, these public appearances and ideas have shown that since the moment we started to discuss that we will not start negotiations with the European Union that this is the extreme right in Croatia as a signal so that it can come out again in full glory on the public scene. This is a disaster for Croatia. This is devastating for Croatia not because it does not enter the European Union, but because it is directly counter-civil reform of institutions, counter-reforming what we claim to belong to, which is the European Union of values, and not only the European Union of political members, the European Union of institutions, but also the European Union of values. And this erosion of European values and civilization standards that we, for which we are struggling to overcome in this country, and of course there are others and that these are not the only values and standards that exist in this country, are, in my opinion, seriously threatened and politically in the situation in which we are facing local elections, in front of all of us, there is an obligation for you to not, to be careful about what is going on in the local elections. In local elections, there is a huge chance that it is beginning to be exploited again precisely because of this extremist policy of chauvinist, sexist whatever policy you want to capture eternal places, to catch the mayoral, mayoral and mayoral places in a situation where, of course, there is a certain shock in the public that negotiations have been delayed. And just in this period where, at first glance, it seems that there is no deadline, it has a deadline, it is the sixth month. During this period, we go to local elections where there is a great danger that just the opponents of Europe as, as a Union of values, those who perform with counter-European values get the front lines, be the loudest and ruin our chance that is ahead of us and that is extremely important to us. Therefore, I would take this situation extremely seriously and the HNS-PGS Club believes that there, for this political situation, absolutely all parties that are in this House, and also those who are not, are directly responsible. Who's responsible for not getting the chance to start negotiations today? It is clear that the current government is primarily responsible, there is no doubt that the current government is responsible, it is her job. She's doing that job, and she's responsible for it. The former government is also responsible. Cash escaped during the former government. There's no doubt. Of course, the former government was in a situation where today's position demonstrated massively against co-operation with The Hague, and today's opposition is co-operating with the government in co-operation with The Hague. Therefore, the situations were different or different, but there is no doubt that there is this responsibility. It is also the fault of all who in Croatian public, in Croatian politics created an atmosphere or responsible for it, playing the deal, playing firm attitudes, hunting in blurry, using lies, unpreparedness to look at facts, and then from these facts, looking straight into his eyes to build countries and run politics. It's the same responsibility. Because our main problem today is not that this government didn't hand over the people it managed to locate in Croatia and that they didn't show up at The Hague. The main problem today is the fact that there is no credibility. So he doesn't trust this government when he says he's doing everything in her power. And that's the job we have to do. What do we do? Although it seems like I said the negotiations were postponed without a deadline and we could start negotiations anytime. That's not true, of course. Carla del Ponte filed a report to the Security Council in June of this year. And in June of this year, depending on what kind of report it is, we'll start negotiations afterwards, or we won't start them. The next chief prosecutor's report to the Security Council is in November. Turkey has a date they start negotiations in October, so before that. And it's good to rest in my opinion. But in that case, once Turkey starts negotiations, the situation changes significantly, Turkey is a huge country of 70 million people, with a completely different situation, in a completely different position, the political decision is quite different. Partly on the second continent, so all together defines the frameworks and context of the negotiations in a different way if we start after, so if not started after June, then eventually just after November. So there's a deadline. The deadline is June, and it is up to us that, of course, if something dramatic happens, it is possible for this decision to begin earlier. But assuming nothing dramatic happens in co-operation with the tribunal doesn't happen, June is that deadline. By June, not that we can't give in to the pace we have until June, we need to do everything related to the preparations, so the reforms domestically do with the same intensity and more intensity than we did with them. Because one of our problems is that we're somewhat approaching and starting negotiations began to interpret exclusively as lobbying. Lobbing is important. But it's not the only one. Lobbing is just one element. There must be content, the contents are the reforms we are doing at home. So we need to start doing much more intensively these reforms here in Croatia. We had to build credibility by 6 months. The truth is that what is said and that is that the condition of full co-operation with the tribunal is an important difference from the terms of Gotovina in The Hague. However, in order for our co-operation with the tribunal to be appreciated as complete, we must, as a country and government as a government, gain credibility that absolutely all members are therefore none because this is a condition, there is no doubt of credibility when it says that it fully cooperates. Therefore, we have three months to build fully so that I can be more precise this government has three months to build its credibility with all 25 members of the European Union, because that is the way it goes. That's our interest, too. Because in this respect, this government has three months to build and credibility, of course, among all its citizens. In its determination that these reforms, which mean European standards in Croatia, want to implement these reforms in fact that they want to implement them and that they can implement them. So we are in a situation that is not good for us, but which we can turn if there is will and strength and knowledge into a situation that will ultimately result in a positive outcome for Croatia. And I think only at the end on behalf of the HBS Club to the PGS that the observation that this situation should not be politicised does not stand because this is a political situation a pair of ePRECIES:elance, this is the political theme of a pair of eppresence: and there is no other thing that can be done with it, but politicize because it is the most important political decision. Which, in this term, is being passed. Therefore, of course, it needs to be politicised because it is the only way to make it a political topic and as a political project that we can ultimately successfully and realise it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33553	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33554	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. The Vice-President presented a series of inaccuracies, of course, as she herself said because she had approached it as a political issue. But one of the inaccuracies is that the decision was made because of the lack of credibility of the Croatian government because it was simply not true. The Croatian government has credibility in the world and I am convinced, of course, of the rest of the resolution, which is divided into benches by all MPs, is clearly talking about the credibility of the government. The second representative has been appointed the only authentic interpreter of European values and is, for example, European values. She also raised a question of conception and there are drastically different opinions in Europe as we know it. Or the question of spelling which is a pair of ePRECIES: the essence of the national issue rather than the question of European values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33555	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33556	I thank Mr. President, Mrs. Pusic, for correcting Mrs. Pusic's incorrect quote about the language. Dear colleagues, all the nations of the world care for their language, care for it, protect it, and modernize it, and enrich it. Advocacy for Croatian language is not a revizonism or right-wing thing. The Croatian language in the European Union will be as rich as Portuguese and Croatian culture at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33557	Thank you. And the third correction by the respected representative Nevenka Majdanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33558	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Ms. Pusic said the public shock was that the negotiations had been postponed. That's not true, the public is real, and understands the reality and insistence of the government. However, the fact is that political parties believe that this delay in the start of negotiations will reflect a public change in the use of this in a negative context will certainly reflect negatively on the change of the public and the question is who will then be responsible. This government of Prime Minister Sanader certainly won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33559	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader, here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33560	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some claims by Ms. Pusic. First of all, I don't know where you get the information that the next assessment of Croatia's full co-operation with the International Criminal Court in The Hague will be delivered in June. You're based on information you have as well as I do that it's that Carla del Ponte to give her report to the Security Council in June. And that's true, that information is correct. But this does not mean that the report that Carla del Ponte will give in June will be the basis for the Council of Ministers' decision to co-operate or not. Because I remind you that Carla del Ponte has given her report in three last weeks three times the European Union's chairman, which has nothing to do with the Security Council. So why would they accept me now, and that idea exists that you're talking about, and I know what the country is promoting. I got information from that same country as you probably did. Why should we change practice now? Why should Croatia and the Vice-President of the High House of Parliament accept us a practice that does not suit us. Why don't we stay on this practice that was, like it was these days. Carla del Ponte gave a report almost weekly on the basis of the Presidency of the European Union to Luxemburg. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But why do you accept now that we're waiting for a report in June, when it may be that report next week? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] She sent the latest report to the Luxembourg Foreign Minister Osborne the day before yesterday. I don't accept the kind of approach that you accept and advocate. And it is not true that the European Union will give an assessment, i.e. the Council of Ministers, following a statement by the Hague Prosecutor before the Security Council. The Council of Ministers may conclude this every week and may request it every week. And if we were to accept this approach that you're trying to advocate, that would be the auto goal. Then we would accept that those who don't want to start negotiations earlier, or maybe those who don't want to start negotiations at all to be now, now it suits them that Carla del Ponte is giving a weekly report to the chairman of the Union, and now she won't, and now we'll wait for June, and then we'll wait for November when the next report is. That's not what we're gonna do. We have very strong arguments, and the best argument is the practice so far in the last three months. The Bureau has requested a report from the prosecutor, the Bureau can do so and tomorrow or the Council of Ministers can do so tomorrow and there's no reason for us to accept this. I'll be against it, as far as we can see. But we have a better chance of success if you accept this view of mine, not waiting for June and her report to the Security Council, but for the practice to continue so far. If Mrs. del Ponte could report Jean Osborne to the Council of Ministers as chairman, she could continue to God.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33561	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of a respected representative, Vice President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33562	Mr. Prime Minister, it has been said that it is, as I would say, advocacy of a practice that does not suit us. So, waiting for the report in June. It's not advocating incorrect, that it's advocating any practice. It's just a fact. The fact is that a certain report is del Ponte in June. Anything else is possible, but it doesn't have to be. The practice has also taught us for the past few months that when Mrs del Ponte gave a report in the presidency on several occasions, it has become more and more negative for Croatia every time. ... So it does, because it's obvious that the additional requirements for additional reports have been set, so the shift is on us. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The shift is on us on the arguments we can make. The 6th month is certain to be a report, and everything else can and doesn't have to be. But even the 6th month isn't far enough to build credibility, so that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33563	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33564	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. It is a pity that Croatia has not started negotiations, but life goes on. And it is true that the prime minister's conclusion that the process of approaching the Croatian European Union has not been stopped. It is also true that Euroscepticism will appear outside this assembly, but the parties represented here will certainly not change their policy to the European Union because, among other things, they would show their own defeat. No, we've seen it, neither will HDZ, not SDP, HSLS, IDS, but neither will the HSP, because they would confess their defeat. On the side now, Mr. Rožic's statement, which is more for domestic use, leads to further isolation, although we do not understand how he will collaliate in local elections with some of the parties of the left political worldview. However, this conclusion, which was yesterday in Brussels, which also disappointed the IDS, has not been defeated by Croatia. Finally, we do not have a major choice, or isolationism, and we are not so crazy as to isolate ourselves, which is equal to the Balkans, or integration, which is the European Union. The country with $30 billion of foreign debt actually has no choice but to co-operate with both The Hague and the International Monetary Fund and the Commission in Brussels. Let's just run out of one credit tranche and this people will be hungry. To whom is the most appropriate, I would say, perhaps such a policy, the most appropriate to the importers, to whom should this approach policy be most in the interest of the European Union? Exporters. But admit it to me now or not. Croatia has already lost its chance to be part of the European Union back in the '90s. I now have no intention of talking about this period, it was the time of the creation of the Croatian state, extremely honorable, proud, defence, but also some adventures in BiH, free interpretation of what can be done, or not in defence, etc. But today it's all behind us. Politics changed significantly after 3 January 2000. Much less pressure on the media, freedoms are incomparably higher, whether it's about the entrepreneurial, whether it's about minority, whether it's about media security, the citizen is certainly bigger, the relationship to the neighbours is better. I am very pleased that Slovenia has stood firm, so to speak, in Croatia's positions, I do not believe that there is a concession on Wednesday. Finally, co-operation with The Hague is complete and such a must and remains in the future. What bothers me a little bit, it bothers me, I am indirectly glad that Croatia supports everyone in Europe, but I do not mind, for example, that the right governments support Croatia, that the left are restrained. For example. The Prime Minister of Great Britain is restrained, or I don't know, Schrúder as German prime minister when Croatia is Wednesday, about Scandinavian countries not to speak. While the right hand or prime minister would say the shots are very supportive at the moment of the Republic of Croatia's efforts. It may not be a good message within the political scene in Croatia, but the European Union will not be shared in Croatia. It would be more likely to share the European Union in Croatia. As for General Gotovina. If he were in Croatia, he'd definitely be in The Hague. Where is, I can say first of all, if I can at all, the UK and the United States. But they're not really going to get bin Laden by hand either. There's nothing else for IDS. Cash must defend its credibility in The Hague, and clearly where the state envulses, the state of Croatia must give it protection, legal. What I fear is this over-relationship of relations with the Balkans. US President Bush announced three or four weeks ago that Kosovo has been recognised for 5 to 6 years. Djukanovic announces the same for Montenegro. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Macedonia currently holds 25 thousand NATO troops, 18 thousand in Kosovo, 6 thousand in Bosnia and Herzegovina and about a thousand in Macedonia. What is the meaning of Croatian choice? Waiting to stabilise the entire Balkans or try to join the European Union. There is simply no other dilemma for IDS. This is the European Union, clearly that we must in no way neglect genuine cooperation with our nearest neighbours. And those who lead to it We shall give them clear support. On the other hand, it bothers me to neglect inside political problems whether it is health care, economics, shipbuilding. In 2005, there were 41.2% of the average salary, one year earlier they were 1.5% higher. The foreign debt was all mentioned, it reached, despite the 30 billion dollars slowdown, although we would not be fair without mentioning that some things were well done. I do not know the current account deficit of Croatia last year amounted to a billion and 276m euros which is 27.4% less than a year ago compared to the estimated gross social product for last year is a negative balance on the current balance of payments account so reduced by 4.6% from 6.9% to 4.6%. Some exports have been increased, etc. So if we're contesting certain moments, then there's something positive to be said on the other hand. However, once again, Croatia has no other choice because simply any positioning policy on the Balkans is simply not perspective. Those who oppose the European Union at the most at this time are the most dependent of the Croatian budget. It is simply required that all pensions and higher severances and greater I do not know the defence fees and more jobs, and on the other hand, when individuals close themselves as in their snail houses, such a policy is simply unspective. Finally, all countries that have entered the European Union from one Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and to Poland, etc. They've made so much progress. That would certainly be the Republic of Croatia. The aim must therefore be for Croatia in the European Union mentioned earlier in 2009, and until then to adopt the European Union standards because Europe is as valuable as Mrs Pusic has previously pointed out. In the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, etc. The largest advocates of their entry into the European Union were representative foreign capital. He stabilized them on the other side of the economy, increased their exports by ten times, brought technology, hired people, but unfortunately we don't want that either. I'm afraid, and man is really asking himself the question, where does this Croatian self-insulation lead? That may be a central question to me. Leads under quotes, self-destruction. I mentioned $30 billion in foreign debt. By the end of the year, the debt will be 35 per cent, perhaps 37 billion dollars, and it is also important to mention that it slowed down its growth compared to 2003. Are we going to be able to cover it now? In 2005, yes, but will future years simply be able to service it neatly? Therefore, for IDS there is clearly no dilemma. The European Union is of Croatian interest. We will support the clear efforts of those working on it from the President of the Republic of Mr Mesic through government to the National Committee led by Mr Racan. This means what happened yesterday in our opinion at the IDS Club isn't the end of the world. Because of the psychosis created in the Croatian public it is certainly a small or large all-loss loss for the government, but unfortunately a real loss for the Republic of Croatia. The government's loss of something is less important, but the fact that Croatia lost, more precisely its 4 million and 300,000 inhabitants, is now a huge problem for all of us in this House and the country as a whole. In the long run, however, I do not believe in a more lasting Euroscepticism. Why? Because it just doesn't answer to anyone. It does not suit Croatian citizens either, it does not ultimately respond to Europe, because the feeling that is being created here may be too much for the neighbouring areas of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, because we are in one word like the combined vessels, and in this, the European Union certainly has to take care of it. I believe in the European Union because Croatia simply has no other choice. We're not Switzerland. We don't have a $40,000 gross product so we can do it ourselves. The second question now is whether there could be more when, say, co-operation with The Hague came about. When working with The Hague might have been a little more than 2001, but since 2004, we've all been aware of that, and I think even those outside this assembly could no longer be done. But what could have been done more when the Croatian government was in response to these reforms in this country, which clearly depended on the everyday life of every citizen individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33565	Thank you very much. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33566	Mr. Cain said more inaccuracies. One of the inaccuracies that Mr. Rozic's statement was for internal use is incorrect. Mr. Rožic only expressed his HSP position on problems in Croatia. Look, 17. They're not interested in the unemployed, they're interested in when they get a job, pensioners when they get bigger pensions. So the goal was to point to a difficult situation in the country that measures should be taken. Also, Mr. Caine should consider who he will co-ordinate with after the local elections, not HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33567	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33568	Thank you. Without a measure of political exposure to Mr Cain, I would just like to look back at one syntax, which is a division of left and right where it would turn out that the right parties are more for Croatia in Europe, and the left ones are less. That's not true, because if we look at the gentleman's behavior... who is the president of the Social Democrats Club in the European Parliament to individual countries where social Democrats are in power as well as some other states where they are... conservatives so that this picture does not appear to be so. [[You don't understand.]] I am pleased that the prime minister did not speak in this way, so I would ask the public not to repeat such statements that make a bad impression on political stratifications in Europe compared to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33569	Thank you very much. More correction to Mrs. Maria Byte's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33570	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I would like to correct Mr Cain's incorrect claim that the Republic of Croatia has lost its chance to be a member of the European Union in the 1990s. It is simply not true, but just in the 1990s Croatia created its own state, defended itself from aggression, freed its territory and only in 1998 the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube when it was within the full limits created the conditions for it to seek access to European integration and so much for historical truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33571	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, dear colleagues. We can freely say that national minorities belong to those segments of Croatian society that are the most European-oriented. If one study would certainly show that among national minorities, the degree of Europhobia or Euroscepticism is minimal. That means something. And of course there are reasons for that. Today, the associations of national minorities, including my Italian Union association, have unreservedly supported the pro-European policy of this government, as they unreservedly supported, as you know, the pro-European policy of the last government. And today, of course, that support remains intact even after what happened in Brussels. We representatives of national minorities, unlike some other segments of society, think that Croatia in Europe will be a much better country than it is today and that accepting European values and when it starts talking about values today, I immediately realized that there is a common language, means accepting European values and the European Constitution and European relations and multilateral and bilateral contributions to better lives and individuals in our country but also better functioning of the state and above all to better rule of law. All those who truly love Croatia know that it is true and we therefore oppose all those manipulations that want to show that Croatia's entry into Europe will actually reverse Croatia and take something away from it. That Europe brings value after all also shows the status of countries that entered the European Union, especially those that were poor countries before their entry, and we certainly do not belong to rich countries, all countries that were poorer have profited from entering Europe. Why I'm talking about it, I'm talking about what I think is a real danger is that in this decade Croatia doesn't enter Europe that there are no real dangers like this. Except in case we develop a rejection syndrome based on irrational fears of Europe and its values. We members of national minorities feel uncomfortable when we see that Euroscepticism is growing because we know that this attitude is always and closely linked to nationalism. Euro-scepticism, which is not based on economic problems, you see all countries are first positive towards Europe and then growing still Euro-scepticism when you start discussing economic problems, but there has never been a debate here about what we will gain economically and what we will lose, but they are either based on irrational motives or based on that someone is taking advantage of these irrational motives. This fear of the so-called. Losing sovereignty would actually lead us into isolation and the danger of ideology, forgive me for mentioning it, and even with the fear of contributing to the popularity of certain people, but the ideology of cheese and crayons actually leads to a situation that is truly dangerous because they play on irrational fears and irrational motives, let's not underestimate it. This government, for us members of the national minorities, is clear that this government is strongly European-oriented and we consider it a value. We think it's worth it. I'll be even clearer, I think she's done everything, or let's just let almost anything happen to the negotiations and that they'll actually start. We believe this is a small task to be completed in a short period of time. That's especially true, and here I'm going to enter a field that may be slippery for someone, but that's especially about finding a common language with Carla Del Ponte, because I think if I don't have any other information, but if the newspaper consistently conveys certain events, I think it's sad to say that there's been a gap. Both these and the last government. Now I'm going to make a small parentheses because I want to say it anyway in this House, and to remind you of your distinguished colleagues and Mr. Prime Minister and you, on the words of Mr. Galan, who in some way cheered up because he showed a great friendship with Croatia. Let's not forget, Veneto has the same population as Croatia and the budget is slightly higher. These words, as it were, are both provocatively and strongly said, actually show us that here especially in this Adriatic movement that we have a very good friend and I am convinced that one attitude that is to support Croatia's entry into Europe and at Berlusconi, as you Mr. Prime Minister know well but also with Prodi that will soon be seen with a voice. We believe, we representatives of national minorities appreciate that at the beginning of this term you had the courage, and we appreciate our courage to do so, and you had the right to enter the coalition with us and we had the courage, which we had in the coalition, not because of you, but because of the past. And we also appreciate the choice you made, and the choice was on the wave today's polemic choice was then clear. Because HSP has remained out of power. Believe that we believe that we are close to the start of the negotiations and that this fact is the result of this election at the time. Mr. Prime Minister, I must join Mrs. Vesni Pusic in expressing fear of turning into radicalism, especially in some local environments. We trust, of course, that the Croatian people are a lot of radicalism but still remains a danger of ethnocentrism especially in times when elections are on the local level. I draw attention to all parties, and we draw attention to all parties not to take advantage but to oppose such adventurous policies. It would be particularly devastating for this country to shut itself down because in that case, as counterpart Cain said earlier, we would sink into the mud of the Balkans. The regional approach depends only on us, and we know what that means. Although we were all hoping that at the beginning of the negotiations, and I end up with this, one compromise result is nevertheless achieved and we believe that it represents a partial success, because giving a framework for negotiations is something that still causes hope for us Euro file. In fact, we believe that, with the additional efforts required by the Croatian government and with more intensive co-operation with The Hague court, this situation cannot actually take long. That is why the National Minority Club supports the Croatian government's European and Europhilic policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33573	Thank you very much. The president of the Committee on Interior Policy and National Security, Ivan Jarnjak, called at the 13:30 session of the Committee in the wooden cabinet and I suggest we welcome the delegation of the Christian Croats headed by Mr Antonio Sanmartin, who are monitoring today's session... We still have two speakers on behalf of the clubs, and then we'd move on and then we'd have a break, and I think that would be the most reasonable thing to do. [[Applause]] Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33574	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the government, gentlemen and, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and deputies. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I would like to support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all those who contribute to our efforts to resolve the last problem as soon as possible to start negotiations with the European Union. In doing so, without exception, we welcome and support all those including... and the opposition that makes a significant contribution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Especially if this contribution is not conditional on some domestic, numerous even disagreements on the political scene in our country. Because we will continue to compete, criticise, resist, on the inside of the party and political scene, but hopefully we have made a wise and far-reaching and responsible decision that, with regard to Croatia's accession to Atlantic integration, we are running a more or less similar policy of support for these efforts. And that's why we're using for daily political purposes and this last event from yesterday when we got a framework for negotiations and a floating start date of negotiations, and therefore the possibility of them starting in the range of several days to a few weeks here I don't think we should be conflicting and trying to get political points on the differences that we might have about some approaches in technology to implement this policy rather than in the significant differences that I hope don't exist, and I also hope there aren't any significant differences in relation to either, compared to HSP-Although we've heard one exhibit here that we didn't expect to be honest at this point. Therefore, the joy or triumphism or competition over whether we are cooperating and how much we are working with the International Community on particularly the Hague tribunal should not be the subject of our competition. Because if you remember part of the pre-election political, or presidential campaigns that tried to score at it, and in fact, whoever remembered well were the emissaries and generals for The Hague to pick up political points in these presidential elections in the first round that they failed to do so. And this government is returning, so it can be considered an emissary of the return of Generals from The Hague to Croatia. No easy points, no points that would be in five or ten days. And what some here claim that Europe doesn't trust us is only partially true and very narrow from some countries is interesting to believe more of those who are closer to us and somehow less trusted to us by those who are further away. So this could also mean that, as someone further knows the situation and politics of Croatia better than those who are very close to Hungary or Slovenia or Austria or Slovakia. But it's a political fact no matter what reason. That is why we are credible and trust us many countries in the European Union because we do not believe us when we have out of several hundred, 626 cases which are of course not all cases of prosecution but suspicion, and similar to that of Croatia to the satisfaction of both the European Union and the UN tribunal of The Hague, which has not solved one case which, in my opinion, cannot be solved. So those lands believe in us. What's left of us remains to work normally in the interest of our own country. What is best, what is best for Croatia, to do according to both external and internal political action with the belief that my personal belief that doing what is best for Croatia can only be done by one who loves Croatia, and therefore, this is a basic condition, to love Croatia and to do good for Croatia, at least by your own conviction and by some objective criteria that are given to see, which are to be compared. We have never been engrossed as if we are just waiting for roses in Europe, of course, waiting for the reality of our own position on an economic and other scale and that if we succeed in repairing our general state, we will adapt to European criteria and be competitive on tomorrow's European market we can also enrich this rose rosemary European and in our own contribution. And that's why we don't need to be extratressed, we have problems, we'll have them tomorrow, but with the belief that we'll know how to set them up, spot them and solve them. It should not be forgotten, and only in some discussions have touched on how much the case and the approximation of Croatia to the European Union and the start of negotiations will have an impact of a positive or negative meaning in our environment, especially in ours, towards our neighbours in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro. I hope that all these circumstances have had and have looked into and seen at the European Union level and those who decide that it will mean our close start of negotiations and encourage these countries to go the same way, and that possibly because I do not believe that advent or delaying the start of negotiations will have a very negative impact on our neighbouring countries, which we also want to start meeting the conditions as soon as possible and be candidates for accession to Euro-Atlantic integration, particularly in the European Union. And to say I estimate, I estimate that this case of delaying the start of negotiations on the Croatian political scene has shown the maturity of the Croatian political scene. In addition to perhaps a rare exception to all the opposition parties, I think they have made a mature comment on the emerging situation. I will also say that our chairman of the National Committee is Mr. Ivica Racan, and when I say so, then I am really glad that everyone is responsible for entering the European Union whoever contributes and there is no need to be jealous. In last night's move towards the Croatian public, he showed no party or, far from that, a political, uh, approach to this problem but a state-owned approach to my assessment of thinking about our present situation and what awaits us in the future. Also, the comments of some other opposition leaders showed knowledge, maturity, and responsibility in relation to what lies ahead. Let's compete in other fields, let's wake up here together, and I'm not jealous of anyone personally, and neither is my club that will contribute and then tomorrow has political benefits. And he should have one who is responsible and seriously considering our present and our future. And that is why every initiative, regardless of who it came from, that is aimed at the European Union and the overcoming of these problems, will be welcomed by the Croatian Democratic Community Club and will enjoy our support as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33575	Lesson. Thank you. And respected representative Ivica Racan on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33576	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm sorry, I couldn't attend much of today's debate because of an earlier commitment. I haven't even heard the Prime Minister's statement, I haven't heard the controversy I've heard about, but I can't play ball, I have to say something on behalf of the SDP about a subject that's on the agenda. Regardless of the handicaps, I haven't been involved and listened to the debate so far. First thing I want to say right now. The debate on what happened yesterday in the European Union's decision to start negotiations with Croatia is logical. It is logical that we will not always agree on bigger things, let alone the question of how to assess the European Union's decision, because the start of negotiations as we can see on the 17th did not take place. I want to say right away, you should say without easing it is a certain failure, I would say the first worse news we have received from the European Union in recent years, namely the last 5 years, but it is not catastrophic, it is not the first or the last obstacle we have had and we will have to overcome on our way to the European Union. Dramatizing this poorer news that we have received, so I don't think it makes sense in particular if this dramatization uses demobilizing us in Croatia to do in our interest what is necessary in solving domestic problems, performing a transition that isn't completed, in reforms that they must and require to come to the agenda. I'd like to say something else about that. What's good? The fact that this decision of the European Union makes many sorry in Croatia, not everyone, but as far as we can see, many are also sorry in the European Union itself. This says that not only is Croatia a democratic, pluralistic country but that the European Union is a complex organism, it is not unconflict, it is not impenetrable and it simply leads me to the need to point out that it is not good for Europe to idealise, but it is not good to deny Europe today and reject unilateral assessments. Europe is integration, the European Union is an integration that is expanding. I think it is difficult to find a responsible man in Croatia who will say that Croatia should stay out of this expanding integration. Europe is acting on the principle of consensus, and it cannot be there when it comes to such large decisions as joining the European Union and cannot be there, there can be no surprises. Europe has so far been, the European Union has so far been unique in an effective approach to Croatia's European Union. It wasn't yesterday. But I believe, I believe, and it is up to us that tomorrow will be a matter of the date of the negotiations, the start of negotiations with the European Union. Maybe this date of the negotiations, it's my remark, it won't fall on anyone's head crown, it's too dramatic in Croatia because we've been a little too apostrophetiated, and the government's overly apostrophealed the retail start of the negotiations as "D Day" for Croatia. It is not "Day D" for Croatia, but it is an important day, especially when negotiations start. And more importantly, how negotiations are taking place, how high we are in these negotiations and whether we will successfully complete the negotiations. I understand the dynamics of political life. Sometimes we know how to apostropheal some moments in that life, so we know a little bit about the head. So some too much disappointment is also likely due to unnecessary dramatic and action on the very day of the negotiations. I also want to say if Europe is acting on the principle of consensus and we should be in Croatia and we should restore it, some minimum consensus around Europe. Expecting Europe to have a consensus around Croatia that wants to enter Europe and not have some minimum form of consensus at this time in Croatia around Europe, Croatia crashes into Europe more than any outstanding issue or problem. We have to have a consensus to start negotiations. He had to have a consensus to put the best of our strengths into negotiations, to give the best arguments, to prepare ourselves best. It must have a consensus in order for the negotiations to be successfully completed, and ultimately, the citizens of this country will have a democratic opportunity when they add up everything together to say we will under these conditions in Europe, or we will not, under these conditions in the European Union, because there is a referendum ahead as we know the referendum. We should have a minimum consensus on the rest of the way to the referendum and whether or not we want to go to the European Union to decide on democratic Croatia. Without that, we are tearing down Croatia's position and the democratic forces of this country must be aware of it. There's something else I want to say. Euro skepticism is growing in Croatia. There is no possibility or need here, and if that's a very interesting topic, why is that? Which is all the cause of one almost schiastic growth in the euro of skepticism. Of course, and on which all sides lies responsibility for this growth in the euro of skepticism. Euro skepticism is legitimate, suspicious of Europe by apostrophe of the problem Europe has and which does not even hide from itself or from us a warning that there is no honey and milk. That it won't be easy at least at some point it's legitimate stuff. It is also legitimate to talk about the logic of the euro of skepticism although I do not belong to the euro skeptics. However, I think that we must imagine what a gross euro of skepticism has domestic roots rather than roots in Europe and experience Europe. I think we have to imagine that a lot of people's dissatisfaction with the internal social economic conditions of life also affects the strong attitude towards Europe and Europe's perspective. After all, it is easy to expect that Europe solves everything for us to come to another extreme so that Europe can solve nothing or even harm us. These extremes have proved very dangerous and deny the maturity of the democratic forces and democratic institutions of every country as well as Croatia. What I also want to say is that I don't think that those among us who advocate Europe do well to rate Europe and the European Union in Croatia when they are lightly unable to defend certain things and even difficult decisions simply say that is what Europe is asking of us. I know what I'm saying, and I know that it's not easy for every executive to make decisions. I also know that for some decisions, and especially in the transition period when you make them and when they are correct and long-term they show you are not getting a round of applause for them. Justification of such decisions means that Europe is looking to justify us at the same time to facilitate the situation when we make difficult decisions, but this will not help the European Union rating in Croatia as a matter of fact. I also want to say that we are not helped by those defenders of the European Union who say we must go to the European Union to do what we cannot do ourselves. We cannot normalise Croatia ourselves, we cannot do so on our own. So I want to tell you here and among the Europhiles there are nuances of currents, layers as there are amongst the euro skeptics. We don't generalise things when we talk about layers, layers, then I also want to say that what concerns us between the euro skeptics is political extremism. I have defended and defended that the euro skepticism is legitimate but I cannot defend and I do not want to defend and the party I belong to does not want to defend the political extremism that puts on the euro skeptical uniforms. It is about that political action that is ready to unilaterally reject international obligations, the rule of law, and so on. Such political extremism can act seemingly skeptically on the euro. But he is far more than that, and I think democratic forces must face an attempt to strengthen these forces of political extremism. We have been facing each other for a long time when we are talking about political extremism with those who say something needs to be done or something should be rejected, so what costs to cost. I quote a very common parallel that we can hear even in the polls. This is where I will deliberately go one step further into concreteization. Yeah, it was possible to say yesterday we're dropping this one or that charge. In the name of the responsible authority, it was not said yesterday that neither today I believe it can be said because every government must be able to perceive both the conjecture of such a move and the national interests. It must also consider the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which says that such an indictment, no matter how much he disagrees with it, can only be defended before himself in The Hague. We can say yesterday as we do today we're going to open a debate in front of the United Nations or the Security Council. But we also have to say what it costs and what the consequences of such a political decision are. We can say that we abolish the constitutional law on Croatia's and the court's co-operation in The Hague. But we have to say at the same time and what are the consequences of it. We can say we do not need the European Union, but we must have the strength to say and what are the consequences of this, so if democratic decisions are made and such dilemmas have everything to be on the table everything must be the subject of debate. I advocate, as you can see, more debates about the European Union, about layering, about problems that are open in the European Union, I am not for disqualifications, especially lightly and I am not for unilateral ones and I would say the wrong dilemmas that do not help Croatia and Croatia's national interests. So I end up, I think it's very important at this point to take this as a single obstacle to which we stand to learn lessons that we need to do even more in our internal life in solving the problems in reforms, in preparing for negotiations when they start because I believe they will start, in order for us to be more quality not only for the result but also to defend the interests that we must represent and promote as much as possible. That's why I think a sober debate on this subject today is a test of democratic forces. If the European Union has made a mistake in its decision, and I think it is, we should not if we want to do well and respect national interests, we should make a mistake in the reaction. That's what I wanted to say and at least part of the debate I've heard I support as a good and mature debate, I can't talk about what happened before.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33577	Thank you. And I'm asking the Prime Minister of Doctor Ivo Sanader for final review. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33578	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I believe that yesterday, primarily through the fact or through the fact that we have received the negotiating framework and that we have been a multi-hour topic of debate, an hour-long topic of debate. It has not been decided lightly, whether we have full cooperation or not. That yesterday Croatia became much more than it was the day before yesterday to a member of the European Union. We were discussed more seriously yesterday than it was a few months ago. We were discussed yesterday as a country where democracy, or the functioning of democracy or the functioning of the free market, or democratic standards were not questionable. We were only discussed yesterday only and exclusively about the fact that Croatia fully cooperated with The Hague or not. The shared opinion was also among the members of the European Union. I personally consider it a major breakthrough. And when we consider that 15 years ago we were practically nowhere, and that today we are unquestioned and in terms of the character of our democracy, the achievement of democratic standards, the achievement of these democratic standards and all the things that modern Europe is resting on today, and these are the values of common which we share, that all of this is unquestionable. Then yesterday I consider not a complete success, but certainly a partial success. And that's why he would disagree with all of our common views on our common future and on our common efforts around the Union, he would disagree that this is the failure of this government. Because Mr. Racan, the esteemed president of the National Committee, initially said it was a failure, and eventually said that Europe was wrong. If Europe has made a mistake, then it is not the government's failure. But let's let go of these discussions, think about it together, and I just want to say one thing. We are yesterday much more than it was in December and much more than it was in June and much more than it was in April. And these were the three months when crucial key decisions were made on Croatia were unquestionable, a member of the European Union which shares common European values and which is recognised. It was the only thing that I am sorry for, and here I am, of course, expressing my disagreement with the decision of the European Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers, that they could not agree on whether we are cooperating or not. The number of countries he supported is much higher than it was before. And that's why I don't think it's an accurate grade when it's said that the government has pre-RAMed on March 17th. No, the government just kept saying that we did everything asked of us to start negotiations today, March 17th. Of course, the concept and concept of March 17 as D. That's an accurate assessment. It was created as day D. And here I agree with Mr. Racan I shouldn't, nor should we see it as day D, life goes on and Croatia goes on. And we ladies and gentlemen have been participants of all periods from the 1990s to today, and we can say no political goal has been achieved easily, no political goal has been achieved without further efforts from international recognition, from creating an armed force, resistance to the occupation to liberating the country, rebuilding, creating democratic institutions etc. And all that Croatia has been going through over the past 15 years, changing power from one to the next, it has all strengthened democracy and strengthened all of us. And in that sense, I look forward optimisticly. Someone can transfer that to me as Prime Minister, that's in the job description. Because that's how I defend the government's success or failure. No, I don't. I'm also saying this as an ordinary Croatian citizen and as an ordinary Croat. I am sure that Croatia goes on, in the mood and I tried to communicate it with you in the opening words. We've been very well treated in the past two days. The fact that the negotiating framework has been delayed, which you have not spoken of specifically, because you also consider it to be a good success. But the fact that it was tried to postpone and adopt a negotiating framework would have led us to a much more difficult situation if that scenario had succeeded. Especially with the efforts of some to open up the objective of negotiations in the negotiating framework. That therefore the final objective of the negotiations is open. Which means, it does not have to result in full membership but can result, for example, you have one term with a technique in the European Union of privileged partnership, which we are not interested in. We are interested in either full membership and no privileged partnership. Therefore, Croatia goes on full of self-reliance, at least as far as the government is concerned, and I am aware and aware of all other political factors, especially the consensus that governs the National Committee. And I'm sure that, like so far, we'll achieve all the political goals, as well. And I believe that, and I agree with the evaluations that Europe should not be idealized, but that it should be entered into on it there is no doubt. Europe today has big problems. Europe has a problem above all with the fact that European Member States, or their citizens, do not live, have not fully identified themselves with the European Union. This is the best percentage of the European Parliament's parliamentary elections. He's nowhere above 30%. In some countries it is, but it's mostly 30% response. And that is why the European Union is going with one big action of the communicate Europe, how to communicate Europe. It is also our mission here in Croatia to communicate Europe and why we want to enter Europe. The second major problem of the European Union is the European Constitution. It will be the next great trial, will it be accepted everywhere, will it be passed through the referendum everywhere? The third big problem is the Lisbon agenda. And the question is the European Constitution, since I mentioned it. We have witnessed ourselves, though at the edge, that large debates were conducted on the European Constitution, on preambles, on other topics, etc. The Lisbon agenda in which it is one of the philosophies of being an economy, that if the European Union wants to be competitive on the global market, the economy must be based on knowledge. The Lisbon Agenda has not yet come to life in the European Union. And finally the Stability Pact. Not ours for Southeast Europe, but the Stability Pact, which is the main criterion that the deficit of the state budget should not be greater than 3%, remains a major problem. Germany, for example. It doesn't work. And one of the biggest riots in the last few weeks between the Luxembourg presidency and the Federal Republic of Germany was just about that. I'm not sure I'm going to say it here, because I speak in this high house of sovereign land, so we can afford such observation. I'm not sure that I'm also having any objections to the Stability Pact, which I also got confirmation yesterday, which insists on the Luxembourg presidency precisely because of the fact that the prime minister is also the finance minister. That the Stability Pact wasn't somewhere maybe one reason to play with other topics as well, etc. And that each other had to give in to this. I am not decorated, these are topics that are certainly important for the Union, but it is important for Croatia as well. Therefore, I welcome all the debates that took place here, so I welcome Mr Miroslav Rožić's debate on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights, especially that part of the debate, which is what I am now seeing as a stenogram in which he explained Euro-scepticism. I absolutely agree with you in the assessment that the euro-sceptics in Croatia are not themselves a Euro-sceptic, and that is what we should base and base our work on. I am convinced that on the day when negotiations begin that the percentage of those who support Croatia, at least let's illustrately say about 10% increase, let's hope so and we remain safe to work on. I am convinced that the scenario here was given by one club representative that only in June will be the assessment of Carla Del Ponte, the big question is whether this assessment will be taken in the future as the only one for the start of the negotiations and for the assessment of Croatia's co-operation. After yesterday's debate at the Council of Ministers, it is a major questionnaire on this issue, and on behalf of the government in particular, I will say that we will insist that as soon as possible the evaluation of this full co-operation will be at the European People's Party's Summit on Tuesday. Thank you for your attention, and thank you for all the grades you've given us, and for the other topics you've spoken about, we'll take them into consideration, but of course we're sure we've done well so far, and I'm convinced that this is a good step forward, not fully achieved, it would be best if we started negotiations today, but if we didn't start them soon. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u33579	Thank you very much. Let me say my point of view that the Croatian Parliament has indeed been mature, democratically and responsibly discussing this important Report by the Prime Minister and that all political parties and individuals were indeed at one high, responsible level of that constitutional role played by the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to sit down now, continue at 15:30, and we'll begin the debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Announcing of the Kopački rit National Park. It is next on behalf of the HSP Club, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. It's 14, 10 o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. In view of yesterday's decision by the Council of Ministers from Brussels at 11 am, I called on the Prime Minister to address the Croatian Parliament and explain that information on the overall, overall situation related to yesterday's decision by the European Council. And to explain further actions and actions both of the prime ministers and the Government as part of further activities related to the accession of the European Union. Now we would continue with, with a clear and specific review after his exposé I can give and, appropriately, the representatives of the Clubs look back. This dialogue will be seen how to achieve it after its opening report. Comrade Leticia, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34158	Your Honor, Mr. President, I see a multimedia presentation has been prepared, and in principle I have nothing against it but the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system should regulate it. Because if it's introduced as a practice, it suits me personally, but then it's too big, too big a precedent. Although my colleague Hebrang told me that this was one case in the previous assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34159	Comrade Letica, there were many times when we had different laws and things like that, so it's not something, but what we had, we didn't have much practice but it wasn't. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We move to: - Proposal for a Law on the Announcing of the National Park "Kopački rit" – Proposers of MPs Ivica Pančić, Mato Gavran and Josip Leko, first reading, P.Z. No. 228; In the adoption of this Law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law apply. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, Spatial Regulation and Environmental Protection. The government has delivered its opinion. I'd like a representative of the proposer, a respected representative of which one of you will? Representative Ivica Pancic, to explain the proposal this way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34160	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us a proposal for a law on the declaration of "Kopački rita" national park. This natural pearl of Croatia is located as is known in Osijek-Baranja County between the Danube and Drava rivers. We can keep going, here. So, the area is located in Osijek-Baranja County between the Danube and Drava rivers and currently has nature park status. Let me get right to the point. Why do we feel that the "Kopački ass" needs to be declared a national park? Because we think that the existing system of protection through the nature park is not enough to prevent the devastation of this natural wealth of the Republic of Croatia. And secondly, it would be time for Slavonia and the entire continental Croatia to get the first national park. And they want me to remind you in Croatia 8. This would also create assumptions that "Kopački rit" would be the most important tourist destination in this part of Croatia. This is not just a debate on the proposal to declare the National Park Act, this may also be a debate on the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. I see this proposal as one of the projects that should be on 10s for the revitalization of Slavonia. Let's remember the irrigation project that just my smallness with the IPK company offered to the Croatian government, and this government, Sanader's government, accepted the project and translated it into a national irrigation project of the Republic of Croatia, and I am personally pleased with it. I believe it's going to be the same with this National Park's "Kopački ass" proposal. This is to remind you, let's get back to the history of the third initiative. The first was in 1998 when the Assembly of the County of Osijek-Baranja unanimously decided to declare "Kopački rit" a national park, followed the initiative in 2000 of the Environment Protection Committee, the spatial arrangement and environmental protection, and means this is the third initiative that came for the first time in the first reading, and regardless of the government's negative opinion, the debates held on the ground give assurance that "Kopački rit" and will be declared a national park. But since the picture speaks more than a word I would ask my colleague to play a short five-minute movie.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34161	Please, peace! - FILM – The Government of the Republic of Croatia recently rejected the initiative of Parliament's representative Ivica Pančić to declare Nature Park "Kopački rit" a national park and thus protect this preservation and the most significant floodous area of the Danube River in all Central Europe. Unfortunately, this only prolongs the agony of the space of exceptional biodiversity of wet ecosystems. 291 species of birds, 56 species of mammals, 55 species of fish, 11 species of amphibians and 11 species of reptiles. In addition, "Kopački rit" is also the most significant fish nesting site of the Danube plum in this part of Europe, one of the last habitats of many endangered species of plants and animals, the area of the largest colonies of herb and a large crow in all of Croatia and a very important resting place for many species of swamps. The area of "Kopački rita" is also listed on the list of internationally important swamps, known as the Ramsar Convention, and in this sense the Republic of Croatia is obliged to take care of so-called "the so-called "Kopak" Convention". Ramsar areas in such a way as to enable the implementation and implementation of the principles of sustainable use of these wetlands. In addition, the Danube flood valley is listed in the list of European ornithological sites. As the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia and the existing awareness of the need to preserve such a natural pearl are, in itself, not enough to protect the ass from unscrupulous exploitation that result in a long-term reduction of biological species and ultimately a reduction in the wetland area. The "Kopački rita" devastation has been going on for decades and has been particularly intense in recent years. In the period from 1998 to 2004, more than 1,100 hectares of forest were visited in the rhythm and the areas visited were not reforested, or if they were, then plantations of foreign trees that do not fit the existing system and are not rare cases of corn planting at the site of the former forests. On the other hand, the unreal and unethically organized hunting that records the continuing losses is a continuing threat to the animal world. Currently, the acute problem is the disturbed sexual and age-old population structure of the deer. The declaration of Kopački rita would ensure the protection of the animal and plant world and the quality of the local population of all Baranja. It would have the possibility of a normal adjustment in traditional ways, with the sureness of the potential in rural tourism. In addition, such a move would lead to an increase in the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia as a country that takes care of its natural resources in which the countries of the European Union particularly insist. Of course, it is extremely important that the Kopački rit National Park would probably be the largest national park in Croatia, which is a fact that additionally obliges the local population and citizens of Slavonia and Baranja as a whole because along with a good organisation, parts of the rhythms could become the most important tourist destination of Central and Eastern Croatia. In addition, the whole area along the Danube River, the second largest European river that flows through 10 European countries, would be promoted. This would also increase interest in Croatia's border area on the left coast of the Danube, which is now unhindered by foresters of the neighbouring country. So the reasons for the first national park in the northern continental part of the country are ecological, economic and political. These arguments are a guarantee that the national park's announcement is only a matter of time. In contrast, only a disheartened thesis toward which the Kopački ass should first be placed in a state in which it can be declared a national park. So provide time for those who devastate the plant and animal world protected by an inadequate and insufficiently inherited system of conservation of the area, the system that they have adapted. Therefore, they do not need to be allowed more time because in specific hunting traps a protected large game suffers daily, and in forest marches, dozens of hectares of forests that until yesterday were habitats of the same savages. That doesn't make any sense to watch anymore. There is no point in accepting that such a thing is happening, but it should be protected immediately because of its own conscience and because of generations to come. Here you go, pal Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34163	Here's hoping you don't mind Slavonia showing her natural beauty, too. Perhaps the word may be slow, but you will all agree that the pictures are beautiful and that this area should be protected. In addition to international standards, we believe that Kopački butt meets national criteria for national park declaration because of Article 152. The Nature Protection Act states: The National Park is a vast, largely unchanged area of land or sea of exceptional and multiple values, covering one or more preserved or slightly modified ecological systems, and is primarily intended for the preservation of original natural values. Although the Government of the Republic of Croatia argues that Kopački rit does not meet these conditions because I quote: "The area proposed for the national park is a predominantly altered area, so that natural values have also come from a large part of the influence of man," the quote concluded. I believe that this claim does not stand because today there is hardly a fraction of nature in the world that is not under human influence at least partially changed and that these criteria in our legislation, which is visible from the bill, are satisfied. For example, consider the Brijuni National Park, which was fully formed by the action of the human hand. Moreover, unlike the Government, which argues that the National Park declaration should put an end to any economic activity, we believe that this is also not true, nor is it the proposal's intention. In fact, only economic activities that threaten the origin of nature cease to exist by declaring this area a national park, while assumptions are being made for economic development based on the sustainable use of natural resources and the promotion of those economic activities that are in the function of the development of the national park. So instead of intensive forestry that is invaluable by noting that these 1100 hectares of cut forests are more than 600 hectares of Serbia's forest on the left hand side of the Danube so that there is no confusion because 2/3 of the area when we talk about forestry is infertile forest land and the hunting on which I have to notice the government particularly insists that we live in the UK in the 19th century, a hunt that is completely irrational and incomplete and in constant losses. In our opinion we should insist on tourism, hospitality, traditional crafts and hunting, but in a different way organized. This creates assumptions for further employment of the local population because there is a depopulation trend in this area, people are leaving, settlements are empty and the number of employees is decreasing. Comparative data on the tourist traffic of national parks and nature parks show that national parks have a far greater number of visitors and therefore more inflows of financial resources than nature parks. Therefore, this proposal goes after it not to close this area even though some areas will be as strictly protected as the case is now with the zoo reserve but that the local population has considerable benefits from it, and they will return it by preserving this natural wealth. I stress that the port of Osijek will not stop working because it is not our goal on the contrary. What has been fully opened in this proposal and where there have been the most regrets in the discussions we have held and what we fully accept is the issue of borders. We allow their corrections precisely for the reason that they do not accidentally become an obstacle to the normal lives of people and on this issue there is a possible consensus and satisfaction of the interests of different subjects. And to conclude, the National Park brings conservation of the eco-system, a far greater economic benefit and an increase in the country's international reputation, a country that protects its natural resources. Here's how much from the promoter for now, and don't mind this movie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34164	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34165	Thank you very much. In addition to a series of incorrect allegations set out in this introduction, let me correct the alleged that in 1998 Osijek-Baranja County made a decision on the declaration, a unanimous decision on the declaration of Kopački rita national park. It wasn't a decision. This was an initiative to enter into the process of eventually declaring Kopački rita a national park and after all those expert teams that considered the initiative was the conclusion that the national park’s declaration would be bad for both local and local populations and would have far-reaching consequences on the economy, hunting, fishing, agriculture so that it would give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34166	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? Yeah. Reporters of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, Honored Representative Marko Širac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34167	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament at the 23rd session of March 2005, discussed the proposal for a law on the declaration of the National Park "Kopački rit", submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Ivica Pančić, Mato Gavran, Losip Leko representatives in the Croatian Parliament by act of 7 December 2004. The Committee shall, on the basis of its competence referred to in Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discusses the proposed law as a parent working body. The meetings shall be held with the exception of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent national authorities in accordance with Article 54(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament were present and representatives of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts of the County of Osijek-Baranja Municipality of Bilja, Public Institute of Nature Park "Kopački rit", Croatian Forests, NGOs. The Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for discussion, which suggests that the proposed law has not been adopted in the assessment that it is unacceptable and at least premature at this time. In relation to the members of the Committee, I would like to draw up a proposal from the Committee on Legislative Law which does not support the adoption of this law. However, he suggests that the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for measures to be in charge of the government of the Republic of Croatia to take all activities in order to strengthen protection in Kopački rit. After explaining the proposed draft law, a debate on the need to pass laws or on different and conflicted assessments on whether there are conditions and justifications that the existing nature park "Kopački rit" has been declared a national park with significantly extended borders. The following opinions and proposals were presented in the discussion at the Committee session. Representatives of the Croatian Forests have strongly disagreed with the proposed law, assessing among other things, that a stricter regime would be at the expense of forestry, wood industry and hunting. Having regard to the opinion of the Government, and in particular respecting the conclusion of the Legislative Committee, it was suggested that, after the debate, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament the implementation of the previous debate in order to reach a conclusion on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to establish certain measures to protect Kopački rit more effectively. It was stressed that the previous debate should be conducted because so far there is insufficient professional argument for responsible decision-making. A representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning, Construction has informed the Committee that, after years of work, it has agreed with all the users of the space in "Kopački rit" and the public debates carried out have prepared a proposal for a spatial nature park, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will soon refer to as a parliamentary procedure. That document may be used if a good basis for deciding on the level of protection of that area. It is pointed out in particular that the issue of protected parts of nature is of national interest and that an inappropriate assessment of the atmosphere of conflict between different interest groups is particularly protection and hunting for the forestry economy. It is also expressed dissatisfaction that the responsibility for the protection of nature that has national value is being transferred from one ministry to another. The Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council, and in particular with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council. Among other things, the bill lacks socioeconomic analysis of the area of the proposed national park. It is pointed to the meaning of Kopački rit, not only of legal status but also of its development potential. The future of this space is not in the exploitation of hunting forests but in the development of scientific research and rural tourism. It is highlighted in a park management plan that has not yet been adopted. This document is not and cannot be a basis for deciding whether the Kopački ass should have a stricter protection regime in the category of national park. When proposing the bill, the procedure prescribed by the Nature Protection Act was not respected because an extension was proposed for some 150 square kilometres of new areas which had not previously been professionally valorised. If there is a state interest in moving the nature park into a higher category of protection, i.e. the national park needs to develop thorough professional bases, including socioeconomic analyses. Such analyses may show that it is justified for several smaller sites and areas within the Kopački rit to increase or reduce the level of protection. In principle. The applicant's intensity is not bad, and it is on the trail of a European Union that advocates the integration of the so-called so-called European Union. The Green Corridor with the Republic of Hungary. The protected area of Kopački rit needs to be maintained and preserved in the nature park status, however, in order to implement fire-fighting measures. Which was particularly pointed out by representatives of local self-government units. It cannot be supported by the draft law under consideration because it is not high-quality and as such it is unfounded and proposed to the applicants to withdraw it from the parliamentary procedure. Following the conclusion of the debate, the Committee shall by a vote on the following proposal. First. The Committee proposes to the Parliament that a proposal for a law declaring Kopački ris national park be held before the debate. This proposal did not receive the necessary support. The committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament most of the votes not to reach the next conclusion. The bill of the National Park "Kopački ass" is rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34168	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture on behalf of the government Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34169	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just say that because the government was in writing, I'm underlining why the obvious is given in this form. According to the proposal for a law declaring one area of the national park, it is in fact a question of the boundaries of the area to be protected and the protection regime to be introduced in this area is being resolved. As the proposer's explanation finally said, it is open to leave an open question of borders. And as we have heard the proposal and there is no catrographic depiction in which it clearly points to borders, it is also sufficient to explain why the Government finds this proposal unacceptable and premature. But let me add a few more arguments. Namely, the World Organisation for Nature Protection has established a classification of protected areas, as well as criteria for declaring certain areas. As regards the national park, therefore, the fulfilment of these criteria also does not exist at this time and there is an expert basis which would determine the existence of these criteria in particular in the specific area and give the correct solutions where protection limits should be withdrawn and which segments should be placed under which protection regime. In addition, two documents, one called the Management Plan, which actually addresses how to implement protection measures in the protected area Kopački rit is one of the parks that has won the management plan among the first to be adopted in accordance with the Nature Protection Act and which was made in cooperation with experts at international level and of course our own. This management plan is precisely showing that the prescribed protection regime is and is suitable for this area, and I am also pleased that here in the report of the Committee, the preparations for the adoption of the Kopački rit spatial plan have been mentioned for six years and in which the values of this area have been valorised and will also answer the question of which protection regimes should be implemented and how to manage this protected area. Of course, in this introduction, when it is said that the area is unscrupulously exploited, it was in that annex, I think that if there is such a phenomenon, therefore there has been such a situation somewhere, it is a matter of responsibility for the leadership of a public institution which is obliged to implement the Nature Protection Act and all other regulations for the area and in the protection regime that is set there, and the event to put the declarative area into a larger protection regime is a matter of declaration. Here is the essence of how this process, therefore, preventing possible protection from possible devastation, is not a declaration towards the position of the Government of the stricter regime but rather of implementing the established regime, and allow me to say a few more words about the explanation that applies to the declaration of the national park affecting regional development, and that this would be a guide for the development of tourism, but at the same time we must be aware that the declaration of areas that would be larger than the existing ones would be by 150 km square meters, means that we are suspending economic activities in this area and that we are giving up that development that has been done so far, which is historically present and that we are directing it towards tourism. I'd just like to tell you that visiting is also a certain form of devastation and that the moment it crosses the capacities allowed. Management plans are precisely used to determine capacities and to protect nature from excessive visits. This should therefore also be kept in mind when it comes to this proposal, i.e. to significantly disrupt and disable the economic activities that are now taking place in the nature park. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34170	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34171	I'm correcting the quote, although it would be a lot to correct from what Mr. Secretary was saying, the assumption that visiting was a devastation. ... The exact allegation, but to counter the visitation as a devastation of the fact that at this moment as we had the opportunity to see from these data, hundreds of acres of forest destroys, that a completely disrupted eco-balance when it comes to the plant and animal world is indeed hypocritical and cynical to mention as an argument in this case. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34172	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34173	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Right on behalf of the SDP club, I must express our dissatisfaction, and in a little bit and in a sense the protest that is used in the use and presentation of opinions either in writing, whether or not in oral form around this bill is actually slightly false or on the edge of the truth. First of all, here and now we have had the opportunity to hear a representative of the government saying among other things that there is no cartographic depiction, and I would like to show for our public the proposal for a law that gave a cartographic depiction from the air, a second cartographic depiction that is this way, and in the text of the law in the content, marked by the inhabited places and the borders of the place the whole cartographic part. Another fact that tries to cause dissatisfaction in both the local population and the economic operators, and the fact is that it also confuses our parliamentary representatives a little bit, so it turns out that we don't know what we voted for and what laws we passed, is the fact that no economic activity could be carried out, which is completely contrary to the law. Those who claim to do so, who are obliged to enforce the law, then do not know the basic matter to be implemented even if they are State Secretary. I'd like to remind you that article 152. The Act on the Protection of Nature provided for in paragraph 5 of this Article shall, inter alia, quote: In the national park, it is permitted to carry out catering and recreational activities which are in the role of visiting and viewing and dealing with agriculture, fishing and crafts in a traditional manner and economic activities which are carried out in the national park until its adoption, declaration. Gentlemen and friends, all the economic activities that are now being carried out in the national park will be able to continue, there remains only a question of what purpose and what purpose they will not be able to do at the expense of the protected natural goods, which is something else. And this, if someone has chosen to support someone in achieving their interests or certain interests, is his problem, but he must not ignore the fact that there is a legal obligation. I have great respect for the name of our club to show, the position of our working bodies. For the first time, however, it has happened that the working body is proposing that the legislators withdraw the laws from the procedure especially to the legislators, and in this respect we must stress, given that we have read this report, that it is difficult to accept such a suggestion because it is not only a matter of relations with the promoter but also of relations with the Constitution. As you have seen, the constitutional basis is indicated for the adoption of this law, but only one article that is not quoted is an article 69, in which among other things it stands and that everyone has the right to a healthy life, the state provides conditions for a healthy environment, everyone is obliged to quote as part of their powers and activities a particular concern about protecting the health of people, nature and the human environment. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Pancic, Gavran, Leko, have proposed precisely on the line that their constitutional duty be met by this bill, which proposes to establish and declare the National Park "Kopački butt". But why is it particularly important to highlight it? Whether we're going to vote on this bill tomorrow or not, it might be a little less important, but the fact that all natural, unfortunately, opportunities and realities in the "Kopački rit" as a park of nature point to it. If it is necessary to raise to a higher level of protection, this is particularly important European and our area in order to protect the eco-system and, in particular, natural wealth. In this respect, it is very interesting that none of the representatives of the authorities has tried to analyse this proposal of the law whether it also meets the proposed provision of Article 152(1), which reads: "The national park is a spatial, predominantly unchanged area of land or sea and/or sea, of exceptional and multiple natural values, comprises one or more preserved or slightly modified ecological systems and is primarily intended to preserve the original natural values. This subsidisation was also identified by the European Commission, the international commissions that provided and provided grants for the protection of certain natural resources because it is indeed a wealth of future generations and this is a world of awareness and, at the same time, it was observed that there is an increasing and more frequent imbalance in the plant and animal world in the "Kopački park" of nature, "Kopački rit". It is therefore necessary to access a higher level of protection. Whether we choose to be a transitional phase, as about the committee offers, or to get to the point of declaring a national park, that is, not only a political will but also an emergency that is necessary to take action. But it's not good in the written documents, and this material that the government wrote in its report is saying what the law does not stand, it simply doesn't stand, so it's not possible to carry out any economic activity. I would like to remind on behalf of our Club that there are constitutional-legal ones, I have already mentioned this, but there are also international legal obligations which the Republic of Croatia has joined and by which or by which, in order to bring our legislation into line with these international legal obligations, such as the Convention on Important Areas of International Meaning, the Convention on Biological Varieties, the Convention on Cooperation on the Protection and Maintenance of the Use of the Danube River, etc., would be necessary in fact to declare this area a national park. It is also necessary to point out that around this area of the local area there is an interest in declaring a national park. Unfortunately, it also changes in people because they are disinfected by the fact that they are not in the Nature Protection Act and that no, economic and in-house activity can be carried out. And I've been quoting everything that can be done. But it is not true that representatives of local and regional communities did not support and conclude that the proposal to the Croatian Parliament should be approached and sent to the Croatian Parliament, to pass the Law on the National Park "Kopački rit". In 98, the Osijek-Baranja County Assembly reached this conclusion, not in the form of an initiative, the conclusion was published in the official report, the Osijek-Baranja County and, on the basis of that conclusion, the initiative was to be launched. I'd like to remind you that during the discussion of the laws then, a whole series of national park laws, one of them was this one. And that at that time, political agreement was reached, that a whole series of proposed laws on national parks were withdrawn from the procedure until the Nature Protection Act was passed. Now that we have it and when the Nature Protection Act in Article 152 has, among other things, declared and prescribed what should be a national park and when at the same time it is prescribed and what activities can be carried out and that the law can be further implemented in accordance with the Constitution, restrictions on entrepreneurship, ownership, etc., structures, then we see no reason why anyone, or even these three of our colleagues, would not be on the line to achieve their constitutional and particularly human rights and possibilities, and we should also be able to give a proposal for such a law. Second. The fact that we want to say is that it is difficult to talk about the responsibility of the administration of the national park if, at the same time, within the national park the administration has, or here, no national park, but the nature park Kopački rit is obliged to manage Kopački ritoma and concessions are given to Croatian forests to carry out economic activities. It's impossible, this administration doesn't actually have any powers, and unfortunately, the state bodies failed in this respect, which was most visible and based on images that we had a chance to see earlier. Fourth. The fact is that in Kopačka, the park of nature Kopački rit comes to a certain devastation, the fact is that there is still one part of Kopački rit and in the Homeland War is terribly devastated and unplanned by cutting but also by the mining that has caused great damage to the plant and animal world there, the fact is that there have been fires, there have been unplanned memories, there have been such situations in which natural persons have had concessions related to hunting sites and so on, and so on. All of this has led to and led to disturbances in the world of plant and animal life and to the endangerment of certain species. There's no point in listing what's going on in relation to I don't know, steppe falcon, what's going on with eagles, whitetails, what's going on in relation to certain species of fish or I don't know, their nesting sites, what's going on with certain species of plants like Siberian poultry, etc., etc. It's all here and we have to take care of it. You know, the the thesis on which the minors should be closed by Belje, because Belje could not continue to work, simply does not stand and in this respect we in the SDP, we support the adoption of a Law to declare the Kopački rit national park we have nothing against to consider the possibility and in order to comply with the conventions that we have quoted as other conventions than the Convention on the Protection of Nature, whether the Act on the Protection of Nature in addition to these activities listed in Article 152 paragraph 5 which can be conducted and as economic activities opened and some other options if it does not harm the protection of the biological world below, in that national park to shed light and to see, so that in this respect we have a similar position in our national parks as Americans do, as many others in Europe do. At the same time, they provide and make a combination of both pleasant and useful and at the same time important for nature protection, etc., because they practically bring and achieve certain balances. Unfortunately, we're digging ourselves up here on the principle of who we're rooting for. See if you need to identify who you're rooting for. We of the SDP are determined to cheer for the future generation. And we want as much as possible in the current Park of Nature Kopački rit, and in the future National Park remains plants and animals that will be able to observe and learn and learn about them, and to acquire our children and our grandchildren. Thank you very much. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34174	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34175	Mr. President, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Arlovic, among other things, cited two incorrect allegations, and I will be, more, but I will be free just to point it at two. First, two transparent sketches were proposed with the draft law. This is not any cartographic background from which it can be concluded which area of the proposed National Park should be covered. Therefore, there is no corresponding cartographic background. Secondly, at the proposed expansion of the existing nature park for 15 square kilometers, normal economic activity is taking place today, and this is also the exploitation of forests, the management of forests, the processing of agricultural areas, the moment it enters the integral part of the National Park ma no longer has forest management in the existing way. He's lost, 150 workers are out of jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34176	Thank you. Proposer, distinguished representative of Ivica Pancic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34177	Let's start with whether there's a cartographic background or not. Not only are there two cards, but there is a list of all the places that enter, or which form the border of the proposed National Park Kopački rit, and they could all come up with additional cards if they wanted to, and especially the government whose cards are far more accessible than the opposition representatives. And I think it would be a shame if we had put in our bill a dozen more of these and a dozen more similar cards. If this isn't a cartographic background, then I don't know what it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34178	The club of HNS-PGS representatives respected representative William Herman. Here you go. And in part two of Alenka Kosisa's respected representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34179	Mr. President, colleagues, fellow government representatives, namely this whole situation that is about to be dramatic could naturally come to mind with all the danger of reducing itself to one single question. Will in Nature Park Kopački rit as status today simply increase the level of nature protection. No less or less. What are the methods for this we can open the debate and this debate is just going on. One of these methods has no doubt is a remedy, a legal instrument. Of course, the one people met, who they processed, who they dressed as a reliable legal model, and that legal model is called exactly the National Park. Neither is it our invention nor is it some new experience. It is simple, usually it could now be inserted whether it is such a familiar and easily usable European experience, but since today is this little tense then it is better not to say European experience because it is exactly the same but simply to say that it is a good experience. Worldly. We can still say that. Without the fig tree open and for Slavonic baranic interests. And that's what this is about, it's actually that point that needs to be highlighted as another. So if it is the first to protect nature and increase this degree of nature protection, then this particular circumstance is the interest of Slavonia and Baranja not outside of Croatian interest but within it because the issue of the National Park Kopački rit is the issue of the development of Slavonia and Baranja. Of course, that is so if the level of nature protection in the said space is increased. This important, important development resource for Slavonia and Baranja is not itself. He's in one room that's crying out for good projects first, and this is one of those. In addition to this project called Osijek Airport, you are in a few, in a few dozen minutes from the Adriatic coast here near Kopački rita, it is Bizovaske spas, it is Osijek as the metropolis of Slavonia and Baranja, and it is actually one package if I can say so perhaps too hard which simply suggests here is the need for the National Park because there is a level of symbolism to make a development step forward. That's what this is about. Here, the secretary of state has repeatedly praised the Kopački rit's management plan for his great trouble. A colleague and of course Mr Jadran Antolovic spoke about a document which, which has no park of nature and no national park in Croatia, and that is very good and confirms that management in that park was very solid, as I remember many times commended by the Ministry, although also by colleagues from Jadran Antolovic. I am not surprised that on behalf of the Government, counterpart Antolovic said that this management plan is a very solid document, although it is a professional basis, a good professional basis which therefore comments on the fact that it defines the area of Kopački rit and points to what its real possibilities are, as well as the methodologies to be used, and to preserve nature. Why is it even on the trouble of fellow Antholovic? Because this is an indication, and this is the government's indication simply contradicting the government's perception that hunting, some other activities and so on should continue to develop in this area. And the document said, the management plan, thank you for calling on that document. It should be called upon, it is highly professional, scientists have worked on it, it explicitly states: the degree of nature protection in this space, in the area of Kopački rit, will increase by excluding hunting to the greatest extent, number 1 and transforming forest activity. It's just what it says. So we have expert bases for how and in what way with Kopački rit. We have about it, please, is it paradoxical or is it actually one, one awareness awakening at the government because the government's representative has just confirmed that we have expert bases over this important one, I will repeat the documents, the management plan. So let's keep an eye out for the fact that there are professional bases based on the management plan of the area of nature park Kopački ass. The same document also speaks of the fact that the possibility of tourism development in this area is clearly disabled at this time because tourists can get close to an important part of the so-called area. a guarded zoo reserve only by a waterway. And that limits the annual visit to 35,000 visitors. She last year was 17,000 which was about 200% more than the previous year, which again on your satisfaction was doing the administration that did this job well, and you were constantly boasting. So what happens now? Well, of course, as long as the bullets fly everywhere as this famous hunt takes place, certainly followed by a wake-up golden beam where important conversations occur between politicians, some thirds who follow it wisely, will not increase the number of tourists and visitors. Not every visitor is a tourist. And it's going to stay on this number that's $35,000. The hunter is shown by the association of Croatian forests also that 70 hunters per year actually create a loss, please from 2 to 2.5 million kuna. That's the data. Only 20,000 tourists arrive with a million kuna. So now there are 35,000, and we open up opportunities not only for waterways to go, because as Slavonac says on all sides in the hunting area, there will be no serious tourism but will still be mentioned with the right of the Golden beam, in which so important Croatian talks are held. On different topics, often fateful such that the decisions we've made here have long been shaped there in the space that has already and therefore has to be a national park. Whatever you realize me I said this actually from the bottom of my soul thinking the most serious. And first of all, with responsibility for what kind of politics they might actually be making in the first place. We would like to warn that the issue of borders that have also been debated can be dealt with relatively with with with with with with with all caution simply. How? The professional basis provided by the management plan document shows the area of today's nature park throughout all possible levels. Socio-level, economic level, biological level, and so on and so on. A multidisciplinary approach. And that simple which is defined by the boundaries of nature parks has been studied in that sense, and that is one of the possibilities to define boundaries. In any case, let's not make a fetish out of the fact that and how to declare borders. But let us warn that well-defined borders with professional bases, is that so colleague Antolovic because we have a management plan we can come to. This whole debate, if it wasn't connected and with the clearly Slavonian-Baranja interest, seems to me, will not make any sense until the end. So it would be very important not to happen by definition of party conflicts, otherwise very welcome. But to try to see here simply that we are facing a good project, to face the opportunity to take a decisive step in the developmental sense in Slavonia and Baranja. At least what can be done is that the voting machine simply does not stifle the possibility of what a good project carries inside it. So the proposal is simple. We can do two readings, we can assign to the government, and I think we need to assign the government, to actually access everything that is until the end of the definition of a professional basis to declare this space a national park. And so there's a complete answer to what we actually need in that space. So it's not about strengthening the political muscles, it's about the fact that we look at our conscience and look at what's really good to be done. Otherwise, if it is said about what good can be done, it would be very good to contribute to it by the government, and its representative answers the question of what is the policy of nature protection at this time in our Croatia. Because it's hard to understand why the event happened through the competition, there was a direct shift in a few parks of nature, and it's really based itself on the profiled eco policy that they don't recognize. In that sense, I see certain wanderings, and then possibly wandering about the realization of this project. Maybe today that miracle click happened. Possibly. It's a strange day, by the way. So we heard the management plan was a good document. Indirectly, it is the government's support for this bill of law to declare Kopački rita a national park. Mr. President, thank you very much. I had a promise to deliver the word but I was all in the fire, I guess there's still a little time left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34180	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Mato Šimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34181	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that the losses in hunting are 2 and a half million kuna, which means bad management or devastation. On the contrary, they mean investment in hunting grounds and care for game because we have examples of a common deer where only Croatian forests gave a million kunas for the treatment of the Great Methyl. So, it's not a loss in hunting, it's a loss in rapture, it's a investment in hunting grounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34182	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin Shain. Two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34183	Thank you, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal to declare the National Park, the nature park of the so far in Kopački rit National Park, but it is also proposed to extend the existing boundaries of coverage in the southwest zone. And north by the Danube, so the existing 228 km would increase to 374 square kilometers. This one, on the appearance of a harmless and well-intentioned proposal in a number of cases, has caused heated controversy and then expects today's debate in this House so that it can be contented and reasoned. Today, Croatia has 8 national parks mainly in the coastal area, which are exclusively karst type and development and economic potentials lie in the fact that they are the preferred tourist offer on the Adriatic. However, the Park of Nature Kopački rit is the most preserved floodous area of the pronounced biodiversity of marsh organisms with Circa 300 species of birds and dozens of species of amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals is what is more by the characteristics of the eco system as the last habitat of many endangered species of animal plants and as a resting place for many colony birds. All these natural features, with the necessity of professional evaluation, are sufficient to assume that the Croatian State is in this extremely valuable space in a timely manner as soon as possible to introduce a more stringent nature protection regime and is responsible for limiting the use of current economic resources that threaten the origin of nature. On the other hand, the nature protection measures must be sustainable and balanced with the needs of the indigenous population, and the economic development of that area. The abandoned rural households within Kopački rit are not a reflection of the economic well-being or of the elitism of the local population that is going to live in the city on the contrary, the inability to survive schools with dignity in this area. It is important to mention, for example, that the visitation of national parks and income made from such properties is much greater than when visiting nature parks. Of course, the development of this space lies not in the expansion of forests and hunting but in the development of tourism. Although from all the previous written materials and discussions on the Committee on the Protection of Nature, it is not fully clear what is the benefit or gain from the exploitation of the forest, because the area is largely swamped and some data suggest that, for example, it is not possible for it to be able to make use of it. The pond oak is no longer and even less known data are as to how much revenue is made by commercializing hunting because it is a well-known tradition of hosting well-deserved dignitaries as more significant, which contributes more significantly to the economic development of this area because it always takes place in a closed circle of small numbers of users. There remains the possibility of a forest expansion in the part where it has an excuse as well as hunting in those parts that remain outside the national park and are primarily predetermined as a complement to basic tourist activities. The natural specificity, biodiversity and the high ecological world of this area's potential for the development of a specific kind of scientific eco-tourism and rural tourism is completely unfounded and constrained fear of job loss, especially in forestry because this economic development opens up a far greater number of jobs and a much more high-quality job opportunities in tourism and in services. To revitalize traditional life, restore people, restore houses and maintain customs about not even speaking. In addition, in the context of the value of the entire Danube, declaring the national park of this area opens up the possibility of a strong topic on the convergence of the immediate neighbouring countries and removing the problem of the state border that goes to the old... It is due to the fact that part of the area, the park over the Danube would be monitored, used and managed by the national park. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34184	Thank you very much. State Secretary Jadran Antolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34185	I would like to thank Mr. President, namely here, one part of Article 152 of the current Nature Protection Act was cited in one debate, so allow me to quote a section of Article 152 of the current Nature Protection Act as regards carrying out economic activities in the national park, so let me just quote the article 3 and 4, respectively, which says: "In the national park, actions and activities are allowed which do not endanger the original nature."., that is one item and the following: "In the national park, the economic use of natural goods is prohibited.". It also stands in the government's opinion only works, so there will be no misunderstanding. And let me say something else about the management plan I referred to in the government's reasoning. Namely, exactly, the management plan that has Kopački rit refers to the existing area of nature park. It cannot be used as a professional basis for an extension of 150 km square. That's it. And one more thing. One of the discussions also said that the government was reducing directors which is not true, namely, changes followed by the end of the mandate and elections for the new term of office. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34186	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34187	In fact, the secretary of state says that the management plan cannot serve on, beyond what are the boundaries of nature parks to establish borders. What do you mean? If he has provided professional bases for that space then there will be no doubt that he will continue to be equally professional. You can't apologize to your colleague Antolovic after you obviously went away in the first part of your exposure, but a sincere step further than you seem to expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34188	Thank you. Proposer, honourable representative of Ivica Pancic, ovary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34189	Thank you. Allow me, no more than two minutes, just to clarify the proposing's intentions about this expansion of the existing borders of nature park. There were three solutions. Staying within the existing boundaries of nature park, it was one, perhaps the simplest. Second, take a step back and an existing zoo reservation with a higher degree of protection declare a national park with the same degree of protection means an existing zoo reserve. Or this third solution may be the most complicated, most complex, which is to go to the flood valleys of Danube and Drava. Especially since I was born in Vukovar in Vienna, I was headed to the Danube. Not only does the European Union have a project to protect the Danube plums and opportunities and to open pre-accession funds, to extract funds. I found out later. The reason was because of other nature and this is a question of Croatian territories from the left coast of the Danube, Croatian territories which are outside the reach of the Croatian government under the Erdutic Agreement. I hope not for long. The territory which Serbia, or the Duke of the Forest, almost completely devastated. And that was the goal of showing that through the national park we are not only taking care of the territory, the support from the right bank of the Danube, but also to show Europe that we are also fully interested in Croatian areas on the left bank of the Danube. Here, that was the fundamental reason why we went to this increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34190	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Tomcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34191	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I simply hold on behalf of the HSS Club that a good initiative is generally a good initiative to raise levels and the size of protected areas in the Republic of Croatia. If I remember correctly this moment, it's protected somewhere around 10% of the state's territory in different categories of protection. I think that Croatia should, in due course, extend that level of protection to at least twice as many areas. So when we talk about Kopački rit, about the eventual declaration of Kopački rit national park, then we're not just talking about that nature park and that possibly national park, we're actually talking about and we should at least talk about one rule with a tendency here in the Parliament. Therefore, a rule with a tendency must be to increase the level of protection and increase protected areas in the Republic of Croatia. Why? It is simply a notorious fact that in this day, the Republic of Croatia has something to show, present and protect the world of natural resources, biodiversity, nature protection against the impoverished Europe. We could now be developing the thesis of why Europe has destroyed 80% of the flood areas in the great rivers, etc., which are large fish nests, bird habitats, etc. in just the last ten years. Europe paid a large price quickly to its industrial development after World War II, not taking care of nature protection, not taking care of ecologicals. And of course, then today in Europe it becomes a standard for those who have not yet done so to do so in Europe and for the overall world to preserve what is still to be preserved. I don't think that should be some kind of self-destructive attitude of Croatia, but simply that could be our one competitive and comparative advantage. I'll be a little sarcastic when I talk about this. Non-quality forests and blizzard animals in Europe have progressed, but places where a protected area, nature park or national park cannot be declared. And why wouldn't the Croats start thinking that way? The broom has everywhere, the degraded forests are everywhere, and the quality in very few places. So I repeat thesis, this is not just a question of this subject, this is a matter of concept of development. Above all, concepts of the development of Slavonia and of course concepts of the development of the Republic of Croatia. What's our advantage? Where do we have certain advantages in our development? Well, not for sure in the production of televisions, cars, but precisely in the use of those resources we have. Protected nature, preserved nature, unpolluted air, unpolluted water, unpolluted soil, and so forth is one of our resources. Do we really have to declare everything a National Park, in which way that's a different question? It's a matter of profession and some experts are talking about it. Of course, this proposal that SDP colleagues offered us is not perfect, but as an initiative, I dare say good enough. We could've had a good cartographic performance, but I don't want to make a story about the cartographic depiction. From your cartographic depiction, it is simply not visible what is proposed. Which is the area, how big and so on. What is the existing reserve, what is the existing nature park, to which it tries to expand into the design of the National Park? But that's not the key question. It would've been good if we had that cartographic display, it would've been good if we had these beautiful videos you showed us today, we had before, but we didn't have a good one who could think about protection and the value of that resource knows what we're talking about. Of course we could have had better ecnomical analysis. What activities... will pay more and more except for those activities that will have to be put out there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We could have had better demographic analysis. How many in the future National Park will we have settlements with which number of inhabitants, what will these residents deal with and so on? We could've had it all. We could have had a much safer and better display of the substituting economic branches. We could have, I don't know, and proof of the cost-effectiveness of some new occupations the local population will be dealing with. OK, we don't have everything we're supposed to have, but no one can argue that this is one initiative that needs to become a rule in this country and that's why we should simply look for an exit not in the way the government tried to find it out of this situation but in one I would say a more polite and objective way. The government's position is not to declare a national park. The same attitude was accepted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection by overvote 65 and so on that I think simply, simply, it's not, it's just not good. We here dear friends must speak truly of what this is all about. This is about a two-lobby conflict. One security guard who's being consecrated, I'd say polite and know what he wants. So look at a memo of Green Action that speaks very clearly, but in a decent way, look at a memo by Ecological Society Friends of Kopački rit who in some 12, 13 points explain why it is not a good attitude of the Government and suggest that the Government change its position on the one hand and on the other hand something that is almost incredibly arrogant for me, I dare say on the edge of the impertinence letter of the Croatian forests signed by the Head of the Forest Osijek administration, in which it speaks about eco imperialism, please nice eco imperialism, foreign security lobby which our experts, under quotes, instrumentise in the hands of the Green Mafia, please work to prepare a variety of investments to buy objects, purchase property, land, in short classic colonization. So please, what does it look like? What's this about? Well, what good is Croatia's forest through this gentleman who signed this, I won't mention his name, what administration of Croatian forests accepts such an assessment? I ask first of all that the Croatian forests are manifested whether this is really neocolonalism or what is this about? Or it is simply through the mouth of this gentleman and through his pen is trying to preserve the discretionary right which otherwise Croatian forests try to retain in some areas by mastering and those lands that are not forest land, mastering and those hunting areas which they use only for some elite, elite hunting and discretionary hunting rights, of course without paying certain, certain fees. So in conflict these two, two lobbies on one side of the security guard, on the other side of the forest hunting, and this Parliament will not come up with a quality solution through this conflict. I'm worried about a notorious fact. This is where nature park director's shifts were mentioned. An expert nature park director has been replaced in God’s justice and brought to her place a person who has not had a single day of experience in protecting nature. Oh, please. Maybe the previous one wasn't right, but the one who has no experience in this highly sensitive area can't be better. Okay, anyone in power has the right to place their own personnel, to give them a chance, however, has no right to work in an unprofessional and unauthorized way. Some of the information presented in this proposal is extremely worrying, and we have not heard any answers to those findings so far. Let's say one of the findings in this proposal is that the oak forests are in this area, that they are only present in clues. So why are the Croatian woods here fighting anyway? No one has ever denied me that oak trees are still in the trail. If there are, and God forbid there are, but it says here that there are traces. But nobody's talking about it. And here in this material it's also said that only one third of this whole area that we're talking about is actually under the woods, that the rest of the meadows, the ponds, the reeds and so on, and that's all forest land. Gentlemen, we must, then, in this House, open up a debate on what is actually forest land and why what is not forest land would be under the rule of the Croatian Forests. So far, it's been said here, and no one has ever denied that, in fact, any revenue from exploiting the forest, the total increase in wood mass is less valuable than the cold drive of the people who work there, and there are some big arguments that 150 people will be left out of work. And what's worse so far, no one has denied one fact that writes, I don't know this proposal has been numbered, so I don't see which page it is, where it's literally said that there were only 75 hunters on more than 23 thousand acres of hunting ground for 2002. I'd like to ask you a nice 23 thousand acres of hunting ground in 75 days, yes, 75 hunters. That's if I can count well 0.25 hunter pieces a day. A quarter of a hunter a day. In a hunting ground of 23,000 acres. No one has denied it. What are we talking about? No hunting ground of 23,000 acres. What does this data do here anyway if no one wants to talk about it seriously? Look at this way of thinking and in this kind of conflict we won't come up with the right solution, especially if the government succumbs only to the influence of one lobby, and the government in its explanation then says that any kind of action will be disabled, which is what we're talking about here, any economic activity. Ma will not be banned from any economic activity, of course it will have to be economic activities and forestry and hunting and everything adapted to the fact that it is a national park. Of course, this population and the existing and the ones that will come to that area will have to accept some new skills of occupation and so on. But of course those who engage in certain traditional occupations will be able to continue their traditional occupations. It is therefore incorrect simply that any economic activity will be banned there. As it is incorrect that the port of Osijek will have to be closed among the peoples. It doesn't matter. It is not good, therefore, that the government falls under the influence of only one lobby, as it is not good, Mr. Secretary of State, that you, as a profession, do not have the courage not to think personally but above all, I think it is a nature protection office or I do not know what is called in our system today. You don't have enough responsibility, and when it comes to the nature protection profession here, you haven't even demonstrated high enough knowledge from this area. I was a competent minister 10 years ago, amongst other things, for nature protection, and I got to know that profession very well about people who are highly aware, highly motivated, highly responsible and highly nationally responsible. When it comes to nature parks, national parks, and other categories of protection. Don't here this is my suggestion don't subject yourself to any lobby here but try from a professional point of view to give the most quality solution to the area of Kopački rita. I don't have any illusions today we won't make a decision or tomorrow if we vote. We're not gonna make a decision on the national park announcement. But gentlemen, we can accept we can think about it and once again I suggest it, I suggested it on the parent board, we declare this debate a previous debate. Let's open a discussion with the profession of possible borders of the national park. Let's open the debate whether that's the 7 thousand acres that's $17,000, give it 34 thousand acres, do all the analysis we need. If we're going to go a different way, we're going to petrify the existing situation, we're going to deepen the conflicts between security guards and hunting forest lobbys. And Croatia, that part of Slavonia, will run out of one important resource. Well, we must always be masochists. Why sometimes when we see that the potential decisions are not in our favor why we are not able to postpone, catch some air, do a proper analysis, and in this sense the HSS Club will propose that this debate be actually a previous debate. Regardless of just one more sentence, some of the harsh words I said, I said them for the purpose of taking the matter seriously. I think this House can have so much responsibility and strength and say this is a previous debate, and we'll make a decision the moment we have adequate expert analyses. On the one hand and on the other. We don't have them for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34192	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Agent Tomcic's incorrect quote, which I quote: "The professional director has been replaced by God's justice." Namely, this is an incorrect allegation because the principal was not removed, but her mandate expired. And on the basis of the invitation to tender, another person was selected. And if Mr. Tomcic forgot his shifts were after 3 January 2000, when the president of the Croatian Academy Mr. Padovan was removed from one of the health care boards with an explanation for choosing professional rather than similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34194	Thank you. Second correction by Honorable Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34195	My colleague Tomcic said he was probably more respectful of his daily routine, so I quote "every team has the right to bring their staff". It is possible true but certainly not true when it comes to competitions because then the criteria should be expertise and ability. Mr. Biskupić's ministry and in the implementation of counterpart Antolovic, there have been many times in Kopački rit they were on Vranjska Lake and Plitvices also showed that they do not apply the criteria of expertise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34196	Thank you. Third Amendment Honored Representative Mato Šimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34197	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so I'm correcting the allegations of the systematic destruction of the Lužnjak oak forest. There are degraded forests because this is often repeated thesis not only in the adoption of this law but also in the past. It is indeed a state that the Republic of Croatia is one of the few European states that has preserved forests. Whose nature is 95%. These forests, since their organized masters have been preserved for two centuries, not by anyone but by foresters and forest men. And now I don't know how our fellow Ledinsky who's been at the head of that forest lobby you were just talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34198	Thank you. Correction, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34199	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with Mr. Tomcic that he's actually used very many groups of words. It's not about the director's shift I repeat once more because it's disabling the public. It is the fact that the term of office has expired, the tender has been opened on the basis of the conditions of the competition, the basis for the conditions of the competition and the programme has been selected by the new Director of Quality Director in the term of office. And another allegation, it's not a hunting ground of 23,000 hectares, it's a Kopački rit that includes a special zoo reserve of 7,000 and 700 hectares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34200	And the fifth final correction of the incorrect quote, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34201	Dear colleague Tomcic spoke of the value of the visited tree in the area of Kopački rit, and he measured it with cubicity. The values far greater can't be measured in cubicity because of the general useful function and everything else and we know the situation ourselves. It is also an incorrect fact if this part would turn into a national park that Slavonia would lose one important resource. Although Slavonia is now not using that resource at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34202	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Proposal for a Law on the Declaration of the National Park Kopački ass. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34203	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. For the HSP Club, it is indisputable that Kopački rit is such a jewel, such an indigenous area with the wealth of the plant and animal world and other values that are not available in Europe. And it is a sad fact that UNESCO and other international organisations dealing with nature protection and environmental protection have more hearing to protect our values than ourselves. If Kopak's ass were in any other state, they wouldn't wait a second, but would immediately declare it a National Park. An even sadder fact is that even war criminal Mile Martic, who destroyed all of Croatia, devastated the area was declared in his national park pair. It is good that today this topic has opened in the Croatian Parliament, because this way we can also draw attention to the hasty establishment of an effective system in the country for the protection of natural resources and the environment in Croatia. Trends of systematic destruction of natural resources and the environment from the Adriatic coast, nature parks, forests, national parks, plant and animal life take alarming consequences. What we have established in this system now at this moment we have Croatian forests on the one hand. On the other hand, we have nature parks. On the third hand, we have national parks. It's sad that none of them care about what they're founded for. We know for ourselves, I can tell you from experience, from inspection supervision, what the situation was in the Croatian forests, it is probably still today, although during the former leadership some measures have been taken. Namely, the Croatian forests were those that had just devastated the areas they should have managed. In the sense of the seed, they did not forestify, in the sense that they allowed, or predated, the illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials and everything else. And now they haven't taken any important measures. And we see here the confrontation between the Croatian forests and those who want to protect Kopački butt, the protection of such a rich area, and there must be a limit. There's got to be a limit. So we know for ourselves that, say, one Brijuni is by no means indigenous, and they were declared a National Park compared to, say, Kopački butt, compared to Kopački butt. We also know that in Plitvice Lakes National Park, borders have been changed several times. So let's figure out the part that is necessary, which would cover this area of the national park, and then we'll see, the boundaries can change, but the worst will be this situation if we don't systematically protect it. As far as this part of protection is concerned, I have to say what the situation is and in nature parks, let's say, a national park. In the national park, let us take an example of northern Velebit or Paklenica, it is such that such areas continue to be devastated, because of the fact that these administrations, i.e. institutions, consist of, say, directors, deputy directors and two, three secretaries. It's especially about nature parks. Therefore, they neither master nor design nor take action at all. The situation is a little better in Paklenica National Park, there are even two supervisors, but they have no authority at all. So let's not think if we've established a national park that we've solved something. Because if we've established it, we've declared actually a nature park we've solved something. In fact, only then do problems arise, so the establishment is founded, people are called, then here is the main bickering over it, is someone supposed to be or shouldn't have been removed? So they should all be removed that deal with such areas do not take action. So if we want to have, we have to have, we have to protect the meaning of natural wealth, we have to protect the environment, we have to protect the forest. Then let's make a structure that will deliver results. These institutions must be in function of why they were founded, not ultimately to be their own purpose. This is the same situation with the Žumberak Nature Park. It's the same situation, you know, who was the institution itself is small, three, four people are working and they can't even go around that area. And the supervisors say they don't have any authority. Therefore, it is a far greater problem that only manages preservation and most importantly, means that this institution that is either about national parks or that it is about parks of nature are those who must be the holders of the relevant programs means touristic, economic and other activities. So it's indisputable that even in national parks it can be economic... it's not at all controversial. But normally, the conditions of especially environmental protection studies are much stricter, far more conditions are put in place to preserve this and to be in the function of the fundamental one, means that it is either a nature park or a national park. But this kind of insubordination for these problems is inconceivable to us. Because if we continue to protect the lords, or not at all, of our natural resources, we will find our environment in the situation that we will have as others in Europe have until they realize how and how they must protect the environment, and we from this Europe have far better conditions and better benefits, and beautiful natural resources, and thank God less devastated than they are. It took them a long, long time to realize that, in the end, they're palitative measures because they're trying to save what can be saved. And we have a far better opportunity, so that what is thanked to God is still preserved, but we protect in the fullest sense of the word. Therefore, there must be stronger inspections in this area. You know, I know what kind of inspection was under the Ministry of the Ex-Secrets who dealt with these things, there were 4.5 inspectors who didn't even know how to make a single part of it, so we went along with inspection controls, so measures were taken to exploit illegal mineral raw materials and other things. However, this situation is of such nature that even the inspectors are not the Nature Protection Act have not addressed the appropriate measures in terms of taking what and how they can do in terms of granting such powers, where they can immediately stop all non-things that are opposed to either the protection of the nature park or the protection of the national park. This is the part that is always forgotten when it comes to the fact that the inspection is, for example, within the Ministry as a resort, because no specific powers are regulated by the parent law, nor is it simulated what the inspector can come up with and what he should have as a measure to prevent such a one-devastation. Therefore, I appeal to all of us, to really make sure that Kopački rit is one jewel that we must preserve, that economic activity and other activities can be carried out within the national park. But we make that distinction between the Croatian forests as a lobby that wants to protect it, because we know how to today master the Croatian forests, we also heard in today's debate. And let's solve this situation, because for years, we won't be able to solve it at all, because everything is going to be devastated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34204	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Mato Šimac, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that by who knows which time I hear this assembly here that Croatian forests are devastationing the area in Croatia with pure cutting, it is suggested through the sea of speakers, otherwise pure cutting is not a devastation, it is just one of the forest breeding procedures. And how will you explain that Croatia has one of the best, cleanest forests in this part of Europe and on the other... All the time like they're... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's simple or they're... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they destroy everything and then we don't have a forest like we don't have, or the fact is something else for 200 years that they take care of and look out for those woods unlike the parks that we are 97. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we don't have to say if something needs to be done and we don't have to spit something else that they didn't deserve, and it's not correct which one knows by which time today we hear that our Croatian forests are minor in the radong... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, buddy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34206	The second correction by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34207	Mr. President, it is an incorrect allegation that an esteemed counterpart, Kovacevic, is the presence of a devastation of the area at the foot of the northern Velebit national park. This is absolutely not true, as a member of the National Park Board of Northern Velebit, based in Krasna, I claim that it is absolutely protected by the space of the national park and that the devastation of space there is not present in any form, contrary to protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34208	And the third amendment. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34209	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd also like a colleague... Corrected the incorrect quote about the devastation, in other words as Mr Kovacevic said the Croatian forests are cutting down, destroying it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would say that is generally not true and that Croatian forests have proved to be a good master, that they have always worked under the law but thank God that there have been gaps. After all, Croatia's forests and their full work are also subject to supervision and we can see for ourselves their continued solid work. And in the context of Kopački rit, there is absolutely nothing that can be transferred to them because we are discussing today the proposal of a law without Croatian forests acting as a good lord the promoters would not come out with a proposal that is before us, which I personally consider to be unwarranted for several reasons of economic, social, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34210	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34211	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So first of all let me thank you, let me thank all the clubs that took part in the debate and thank all colleagues and colleagues in advance who will contribute to the debate on this Law. Also, Mr. President, I would like to thank you on behalf of the motionary for the opportunity to present and bring this topic closer primarily to all of us who are taking part in the decision-making process. I would also like to point out in the opening statement that the motive for proposing this law was not to accuse anyone of calling anyone. I'm sorry if I don't hear from you well, but I just can show you everything we want, so here's what I'm gonna do to make it louder. Therefore, the motive for proposing this law was not to call any of the subjects who master these entities to support or participate in this degree of sustainable development, certainly not Croatian forests. We found the motive in something else entirely. And I call on you today, colleagues and colleagues, not to discuss whether the Croatian forests have made a devastation in this area or not, and whatever they call this a devastation or otherwise, in our court, the damage is unquestionable, but to turn to the fundamental question of how this unique natural beauty created by nature and, by way of its march, enveloped to a considerable extent and preserved over the past period of time, so as to furtherly protect it on top of the pride and satisfaction of the generations that come behind us. Without intent, I repeat that we are accusing anyone as one of the legislators of this Law we have sought to prepare as many elements as possible and not to speak up. When we talk about the devastation of the fact that a clean cut between 98 and 2004, according to the data that we have cut at least 1194 hectares. Of this, over 600 hectares from the left bank of the Danube, I do not know whether, on the left bank of the Danube, there is one place which unfortunately does not control either the Croatian forest or the management of the nature park, or the Republic of Croatia, but the duchy forests and some others who cut there, and it is impeccably. In this review, it is visible if, especially those who see behind me all these concentric triangles or labels are marked areas of pure cutting which, according to us, is simply in the nature park or tomorrow in the national park further inaccessible. Here's just one of the images of a clean cut on the other side of the Danube and what it looks like in comparison here we're going to show or I'm going to show you four of the following examples. The first example is out of the area, the first example is the area of the existing nature park just below those who know the area under the Dragon, and it is, therefore, about the area, like this, you see, the first copy of the 1998 aerographic video, pay attention to the central part of this video where the forest is visible and the second video of that same area in 2003, there is no forest, almost counting the hives. The second example is south, it's a space above Sarvas about a large biker in which it's also visible footage from 98th and that same video in 2003. The third example again, there is no forest anywhere, the third example is space I would say in the center or in the heart of the nature park, about the space on the right of Tikveš which looks like this, which looked like this, 98th like this, and in 2003 it looks like this, so again, there is no forest. And the fourth example is about space right next to the golden beam... Baby... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which in 1998 looked like this, pay attention to this left part of this photo and 2003, clean. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we could list a number of other examples, but I think it's, I think this is enough to show what the situation is right now in that area. Whether this area has been noised and to what extent, we have not been able to obtain quality data. From the film that started as an introduction to the debate on this Law, you saw yourself to the extent that those areas that went clean, which were forested. What is most important at this time and again I say why we have proposed this Law is the primary protection of this area and bringing into that position that will allow generations behind us to enjoy this unique natural pearl, unrepeated in Europe, especially in Croatia as many predecessors have brought it out here. Secondly, the aim of this bill is to protect our borders as soon as possible. So that area on the other side of the Danube, which is unquestionably Croatian. Third, to encourage much wider and greater concern in this way and to promote the protection of society as a whole, not only of the Croatian forests. Here we heard a series of examples, and at the end of the discussions we held and round tables that we organized with the aim of hearing as many suggestions, criticisms, praises as possible. We heard what efforts and financial resources Croatia's forests are investing to regulate access routes on the one hand, and on the other hand to protect and preserve the game fund in this area. With all these efforts, we hold that it is not good to transfer all the burden of responsibility to Croatian forests, Croatian waters or I don't know, local self-government, but to need the care of society as a whole. Because I'm saying again about the really pearl, the pearl of Croatia. Of course, there is no need to stress the economic activity in particular because we hold that despite the fears and the radiance of fear, I would say by individuals that there will be 150 people who are currently working in the Croatian forests, which of course has no basis because they will also have to manage, care for experts and people who are employed in the Croatian forests today, but at the same time there will be room for here and such activities, therefore for traditional occupations, for rural tourism, for wine trails, for cuisines, as we already call it in Slavonia and much, much more. Time won't let me. We think we need to think about our youngest. We need to think about the benefits of future generations, and that is why we suggest, among other things, that Kopački ass be declared a national park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34212	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34213	I would correct the incorrect assumption, there were actually a number of incorrect allegations, and even in the material, it is said that the cutting of the forest at 549 hectares was done. It's just not true. The forest was made at 370 hectares and it was done for information and other representatives as well as for the Croatian public. The memory of Euro-American poplars, Euro-American poplars are not indigenous species, these are alochton species. The memory was carried out precisely at the request of the public institution of nature park. And another piece of information. What you have shown land is actually the plantations of the Euro-American cannon that Mr. Bozo Kovacevic declared in 2000 through the Internal Labour Regulation changed or attached to a special zoo reserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34214	Thank you. Second correction by Honorable Representative Mato Šimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, just like I fixed it, it has to be fixed now that it's not a devastation, but it's just one of the procedures in the woods. It's just that the term of the topola is 25 years. After 25 years, there's been a collapse and this procedure has to be... So it's not a devastation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34216	Thank you. Third Amendment, Honored Representative Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34217	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like to correct Mr. Raven's allegations. It is not true that Croatian forests have come out of that part of the forest that is there. These were famous Euro-American poplars planted in the area in the 1960s, 1970s. They are ripe for cutting, and on those surfaces that we are talking about, 350 acres of forest, about 172 acres of oak and ash, and the rest of it is natural rejuvenation that occurred there on those surfaces on the orthophoto video cannot be seen that little plant that is the same forest and when it is half a meter or ten centimetres high. And that's an incorrect quote and it's not correct to show an orthophoto here that you can't see when she's young... but you can only see clearly, or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a fellow that the geodetics know very well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's his quote and all the implications and everything he said here with one tendency that's not correct towards forestry, and I'm responsible for saying that that's exactly what he's saying I'd be sitting in jail today, not here with you in Parliament because he'd be the responsible person who let you cut it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34218	Thank you, dear fellow Raven. Just that, uh, the formerly needed on behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic, then goes in that order. Here you go. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, uh... Yeah, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The applicant may always report in the course of the debate. Now it's a debate. You're after this club, and, in between, there will be you and will be on behalf of the promoter Mr. Raven. Here you go, Mr. Shisljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34219	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Discussing all the positive and negative aspects of the proposal for a law to declare the National Park Kopački ass to this High House, proposed by fellow MPs Ivica Pančić, Mato Gavran, Josip Leko in early December 2004, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community assessed this proposal as unsettled and unacceptable at this time. This is more because it proposes ways to protect without previously implemented procedures and objective analysis of the consequences of local population, agriculture, economy, hunting tourism, municipalities and cities in the contact zone and then the Kopački rit and its own, which is indisputable natural value. The current Nature Protection Act was adopted in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament in 2003, and it defines the National Park as quote: "a vast, largely unchanged area of land and sea or land or sea of exceptional and multiple values, including one or more preserved or slightly modified ecological systems, primarily intended for the preservation of original natural values", finished the quote. And nature park Kopački rit is indeed with its plant and animal world and its ecological systems Croatian pearl of nature. The area of exceptional, exceptional and multiple values that occupys an area of 23 thousand 896 hectares, but it is certainly an area where human brains and hands have continuously worked and acted in an effort to preserve the original natural values. Even there at the end of the 18th century, and especially in the twentieth century here they began to build the first dikes in the area of Kopački rita. In 1980, a main 60km-long defensive coup was erected that would have prevented any annual swimming of nearly a third of Baranja. In the protected area, protection nets of irrigation canals were built somewhere near a thousand kilometers away, and in the 70's last century, a protective fence of two metres from Batina to the north was erected to Drava in the total length of 70km. This is for reasons to protect neighboring agricultural areas from savages. There are also "Belja" economic ponds, 530 tonnes of fish per year. In a section protected from floods, forests shall be managed for more than 150 years in a way that consistently applies all forest and nature protection measures in accordance with the provisions of the Nature Protection Act. From these few examples, it is clear that in the case of Nature Park "Kopački rit" it is not a predominantly unchanged area, but rather the natural value of nature parks is preserved and created in a large part by the influence of man. Therefore, the claim made in this proposal of the law that the proposed area fully fulfils the national criteria for its declaration, i.e. legal provisions, because it is simply not a predominantly unchanged area. In the national park, any economic activity and use of natural goods is strictly prohibited. As this proposal of the law of the national park border is imagined far beyond today's borders of nature parks because the national park from the current 23 thousand hectares would occupy an area of as many as 37,000 hectares, this would mean that on this surface it would ban existing economic activities, and the current users would be disbursed, and in this area people would live from agriculture, forestry, hunting and fishing and proposed jobless protection would remain over 200 families. It should not forget the existence of economic fishermen who legally carry out fishing activities with appropriate permits as well as the fact that 160 tonnes of fish are produced on the "Belja" economic ponds today in private ownership. Any economic activity should put an end to Croatian forests, which, with the consent and permission of the competent Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, as well as the Ministry of Culture and the public administration of Nature Park, regularly carry out the redistribution, redistribution as a forest breeding operation, and not as it seeks to suggest an uncontrollable cutting in the proposal of this law. According to a long-term plan approved by the competent ministries, a controlled memory of Euro-American poplars as alochtone-type wood and allohton is performed. Euro-American cannons. Alochton. So those who are not domestic and deliver the combined "Belisce" for processing. Therefore, the applicant's claims on the uncontrolled cutting of forests do not stand, because the tradition and science of Croatian forestry has managed to preserve the forest treasure and to obtain the Croatian world recognition of a certificate of sustainable forest management. In other words, forest management is organised in a way that respects the biological and social functions of forests while respecting the needs of all interested groups and individuals. We believe that the proposer accidentally left out the data on the forested areas in this area after the cut has been done, but it cuts not uncontrolled but controlled, but also on the reforestation of unprocessed surfaces that are now talking about quick to preserve the natural environment of the nature park. Therefore, during the period from 98 to 2004, Croatian forests had been forested in the area of today's nature park on a total area of 250 hectares, and in places where the nature of the terrain could have been advocating. And I'll still call for an argument from a little while ago, so with domestic wood. In this area of hunting tourism in 2004, another data that the promoter did not really present was achieved, three million kunas were reached. Hunting tourism has been included as a significant economic activity in the national economic strategy and all relevant indicators suggest that the interest in hunting is in significant growth, contrary to what the applicants claim. The undisputed fact is that the Baranian deer is the trademark of this area, and that the Baranja hunting grounds are known in the world for more than 100 years precisely thanks to the enthusiasm, work and pawning of generations of hunters and foresters, and some indicators, and now I would refer to that comment on the devastation. In the year 98, 500 of Baranja’s deer’s throats were found in this area after January 15th, with a disrupted sexual structure in favour of females 1:3. Six years later, in 2004, here is this area of 1500 deer, so three times more with ratio 1:1,2. It is these days that the white wildebeest tower has been recognised as the original Croatian product. Within the proposed borders of the national park there is also a complete area of the International port of Osijek, so it should stop working, or the current location of the port of Osijek should move significantly. I would like to remind you that just now the former coalition government has designated the area of the port of Osijek as the port of Osijek. For a special reservation that is in the southern part of nature park he enjoys special protection of the national park declaration at the same time would mean its degradation in terms of protection regimes. Proposers are certainly aware that a management plan "Kopački rit" has been developed over the past three years, which has not accepted a change in the category of protection and declaration of the national park after a thorough consideration of all the values of this area and various methods of protection and use. Furthermore, during the development of a spatial plan of the Nature Park "Kopački rit" area, all the spatial and natural values of the park have been valorized, and the current protection of nature parks has been assessed as appropriate. At present, the spatial plan of the nature park area is in preparation for a reference to the adoption procedure in the Croatian Parliament, a public insight has passed and all remarks taken during the public debate has been processed. The proposal for that spatial plan estimated that the area of plant rhythm along the southwest border of the park and directly along the northern border had the same natural characteristics and values so that their protection should be carried out according to the procedure provided for in the Nature Protection Act. The current level of protection carried out by a public nature park is assessed by good. The World Bank's loan carried out infrastructure equipment and equipment procurement without at the same time imposing radical restrictions on today's space users. In conclusion, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is of the opinion that the existing level of protection of Nature Park "Kopački rit" is sufficient, optimal and good, and that under the existing conditions, the bill on the declaration of the National Park Kopački rit is currently unacceptable with inconceivable consequences for the local population, the economy of Baranja and Slavonia, but also on the very plant and animal world in the nature park. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community's proposed law on the declaration of Nature Park "Kopački rit" will not accept. She won't accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34220	We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34221	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely a colleague, that's what's said. The area has been largely changed and is influenced by man. It's an incorrect quote. More than 50% of the proposed protection in the bill is in the flood zone, the defenceless area and under the direct influence of the waters and regular floods of the Danube. It is a notorous fact and in fact this whole exposure was nothing but an anthem of the hunting-shuming lobby and as a colleague preserves the interests of the Osijek Clinical Hospital, so keep here the interests of Kopački rit, read Slavonian interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34222	I thank you on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34223	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. A book Kopački rit came into my hand, a Nature Park issued by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia since 2003. Here's what it says in that book, and why we suggest that Nature Park be declared a National Park Kopački ass. The impression that is gained in the first encounter with Kopački rit remains unforgettable, the visitor is impressed primarily by the geographical configuration of the terrain, the hydrographic features of this area, and the complete beauty of this region is given by a plant and animal world that wins the diversity of shapes and organisms, the richness of colors and the beauty of movement. All that consciousness united with the habitat makes a unique whole. During the spring or autumn migration of birds on the shores of the largest lake in the Rit diocese lake, some 50,000 unique birds dwell. And the third quote, the basic ecological feature of this space, gives the dynamics of swimming, so that the intensity of swimming depends on the appearance of the entire space or individual biotypes. The mosaically distributed parts of the Ritski Land and the Ritski Waters change their size, shape and function depending on the amount of water reached. It all started in 67 when the Parliament declared a protected area of Kopački ass. It's 17.5 thousand acres in the first act of this country. What to say about the proposal itself, I would like to begin on two negative positions for the proposal for this law, is the first position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In principle, all that the government states is to reject the bill that Kopački rit as a nature park is not declared a national nature park actually goes in favour of declaring nature park in the national park. So also colleagues from HDZ when they call for economic activity in the nature park are thus denying the protection of space, because the first goal is economic activity and we are trying to protect the unique area of Europe in a way that preserves the area, preserves the local population with a substituted activity. So we're a co-existence of the population and protection and we're not up for exploitation in a national park because it's by nature a national park. Therefore, the objection that there are no cards does not stand, if the HDZ Club and those who object to an insufficiently precise act of the bill, then vote for a second reading and we will prepare the cards, and then we will decide how much the decisions or the Law on the Kopački rit National Park are covered. Here is an important wish whether we want to save something for a lasting value or we want to, forgive whether the conflict of interest of the Croatian forests is or whether it is a national interest to protect such a valuable rarity area in our country. If we have to decide then we have to put that dilemma on the agenda. Here we put on the agenda the protection of natural national values in broad scale. Therefore, another thing to colleagues from the Croatian forests if it is true that it is not their interest in Kopački rit economic but the protection of the area, then raising protection in this area will not damage their interests. And if the aim is to exploit the forest then directly say that the area is threatened or one or the other. That's why my colleague and colleague don't say much and there aren't a lot of valid new reasons here, it's really about the value that we have to preserve, the enhanced protection measures, so it's a national interest, it's not the interest of any lobby, not a single group. Therefore, if it is necessary to define between the lobby or the elite of Croatia or between our common future, then I do not think there is a dilemma that all those who are in order to protect the values of the Croatians, even if it is the area of Kopački rit which the disputes are voted on for protection and not for individual or group interest, whether they were called. Hunting or forestry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34224	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34225	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. So when someone who has never been there was me, when it comes to Kopački rit, it can be determined by the basis of what has been said so far or by the way. So there are some arguments for, some arguments against, but it is undeniable that it is one, in the true sense of the word of a natural phenomenon. Here, it is said that it is the most preserved and significant floodous area of the Danube region throughout Central Europe, then it is said that it is the area of the largest biological diversity of organisms associated with the marsh ecosystems, then the most significant refrigeration of Danube fish on the left in this part of Europe, one of the last habitats of many endangered species of plants and animals, the area of the largest colonies of certain species of birds in the Republic of Croatia and the resting places of many species of swamps, and that I do not list all the other data that I have accidentally read during the evening list. In one word, it means an extraordinary reserve which, in the right sense, enlarges the territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, life must be lived and in symbiosis with Kopački rit was he the national park was the nature park. It is also questionable whether we can debate without the previous local community taking a clear view of what it wants and how it is experiencing this legislative initiative. I believe that local self-government should decide whether it is the municipalities, cities, clearly about the county, although we have heard from Mr Arlovic that the Osijek-Baranja County has reached its conclusion in 1998, even though it has been seven years since then. If we are already in favour of one subsidiarity, if we are in favour of decentralisation that the metropolis does not decide between citizens, although it is clear that this initiative can only be adopted by the Parliament, then we must also ask these people for an opinion. I think it's a culture of communication. Between hunting on the other side and nature, even though I'm not a hunter, I'm always committed to protecting nature. I'm finally not even a poacher, finally my electoral elite whatever decision was made will have no harm at all. But let's not ignore local interests from high policy. But in order not to have any doubts the IDS will absolutely vote for Mr Pancic's initiative, especially to go towards another reading, God forbid such an initiative might be adopted. But what I'm trying to say. We have a simple two-half. On the one hand, from all of these discussions so far, I noticed that on the one hand we have Croatian forests, they defend their position, meaning some possibility of exploiting indirectly favouring the order. Some American cannons were mentioned here, etc. I don't know. There are hunters on that side who defend their position clearly. They also step down from the position that their activity is note bene and tourist as it is in some way. While on the other hand we have advocates of a national park who want one space to be further valorized as clearly as possible. If you own a tourist infrastructure and give God a camping trip to that one day at such a location and come. However, we heard just before the Croatian forest threatened to fire 150 workers, it is unacceptable. Especially for the end, such as Baranja, who suffered the most during the Homeland War, who primarily lives exclusively from public enterprises from the Croatian military, police, administration, etc. So here I read today with a special joy in the Vesnik that in Lipik, well Lipik is not Baranja, that glass will be made for..., Ferrari, Audi, I congratulate them on it, it could be a real job, so we should support such a single company. And by the way, you might ask these people when we talked this morning whether or not we're for Europe, are they for Europe, too? Of course they are. So the stories that the national park on the other side that we now have the opportunity to read yesterday would contribute to the distinction with Serbia, in my court, are unfounded. It won't solve the national park, it'll probably someday solve either some government or arbitration, but certainly national or I don't know what kind of park won't affect it. So far, as we have heard, the Kopački ass has been known as an attractive hunting ground, from King Alexander through Joseph Broz Tito. After Tito began to lose interest there, unfortunately, Croatian-Serbian cartographers started drawing borders in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Too bad we didn't get these graphics on this board. NO, for the end of this intimately I am for the national park, for the protection of nature in those areas. But we must first just that's what I want to point out to the court of the local community. Without it, everything can really be seen as a simple political struggle at this pre-election time before the local elections. The biggest fight, however, was supposed to be when Kopački rit was compared to, when Baranja made that space deminable as soon as possible. Clearly, this will be difficult, and the Plitvice National Park has not been completely demined. However, there is also the handicap of that unique national park in Europe that does not bother them that I do not know it is being visited by safe routes. For the end and in the National Park, according to the IDS, there could be room for all. The question is only clear then what about hunters, but let us not forget that they too are taking care of the area, the woods and similar to their hunting grounds. Perhaps sometimes more incomparably than the environmental groups themselves. All in all, the Dalmatians would say give the baby to the mother, let the local self-government take up what with those spaces. And until they decide not to simply reject this initiative, let us forward it to another reading and indirectly commit these municipalities, the county to decide again on the fate of the National Park, Nature Park. Perhaps some solution is to cut the boundaries a little bit, as I said at the beginning of symbiosis between citizens, local self-government. On the other hand, national park. However, it is clear that a person on the ground needs to decide first, and then provide us with such an opinion that we can take without remorse for a solution that will benefit to the greatest extent the population in those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34226	Thank you. We've also heard about the various hunters who raided the area. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34227	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'd do to correct my colleague Cain's incorrect claim. Namely, he showed at one point that there was a debate here in the Parliament, that we had two opposing camps. On the one hand, we have those who propose a national park, and on the other hand we have those who represent hunters, or foresters. It's just not true. On the other hand, it is those who explain to the facts and arguments that they are not in favour of the National Park, not because of the interest of hunters and foresters, but because we think and support the facts that this is not in the interest of Slavonia and Baranja, and then the entire country of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34228	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, in this inspired exhibition on the very edge of unacceptable improvisation, it was said that perhaps 150 even workers, as it was heard in another act, would be fired. It's a perfectly incorrect quote. It may be "eventual" as it is said to be fired, under quotes, less than 5% of the people in that space that is proposed as a protected area, but of course with the idea of re-employing in a number of other activities that will emerge from Velnes, to... these are those who look at you, etc. That will be explained by counterpart Antolovic, state secretary and great expert on the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34230	Thank you. You abuse an institution to correct an incorrect allegation. Before moving to an individual debate on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Down here, there's an impression, and I'm going to make the argument. Thank you very much. I also wanted to show you a few more slides. We have prepared so much as arguments for this debate that it is indeed that we would need much more time than the Rules of Procedure allow. But let me in as soon as possible. Without intending to discuss it impressively. In the bill of law we have shown, and here in the previous few discussions was the primary word on forestry, we have shown the arguments from which it is evident that the largest part of this area used for the purposes of forestry although this area in general is not considered forest land according to the definition of the Forest Act only 1/3 represents forests while 2/3 represents infertile forest land. Secondly, I agree with all of you respected colleagues and colleagues who you said because of intense forestry and it cuts off the old ingredients of the forest and their replacements, and by plantations of allohtonic species, they are all in the position that unfortunately indigenous ingredients we have very little or as we have said in the clues. A part of the deforested forests, unfortunately, has never been forested, and this requires significant financial investment. Of course, organizational, and according to the data that we have today under these plantations you've been talking about, there are 30% of the total areas under the woods. From all the indicators that we have at our disposal, I stress that the proposed protection of this area is obviously not cost-effective to exploit forests economically. According to the experts of the Forest Institute in Jastrebarska, they are monetary, that the monetary value of the total wood mass in the area of nature park is below the basic cost of cutting them. According to these data, Croatia's forest in this area for the next 40 years would result in a clean loss of 120 million kuna. For these reasons, we claim the opposite that all of these employees who, who have been employed in the Croatian forests, will find their employment but at the reforestation and for the protection and change of these allohton species, and on the request we heard in the forestry area, less than 5% of the working population in the municipalities of Bilje, the Prince's vineyards and Draž were constantly employed. We therefore hold that the restoration of existing devastated forest ingredients would require and enable the employment of a significantly higher number of employees than this existing one. And finally, in this part, the indisputable fact is that in this area the surfaces are not forested. In 2001, in this area of today's Nature Park alone, a clean cut of 225 hectares is provided for, and only 62 hectares of wood are planned. So less than 162 hectares, which is certainly contrary to the provisions of the forest law. And finally, let me warn, in particular, the Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State and those who wrote on behalf of the Government the argument of the Government, that this is how the significance of the declaration, in the event of the park being declared national park, will be reduced to the level of protection. Apparently, the gentlemen who wrote this material didn't read the Nature Protection Act well, and so I wouldn't improvise anything just to... In the opinion of the government, I quote, "The announcement of a national park in the surveyed area would also mean the degradation of the protection regime in the southern part which today enjoys the category of a special reserve which is significantly stricter regime." This is incorrect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: That's not good.]] On the basis of Article 150, the Commission shall adopt The Act on the Protection of Nature is said to protect the natural values according to this Act protected areas and that is: 1st strict reservation, 2nd national park and only then a special reservation. This is a special ornithological reserve that is categorized under the national park. So this claim simply does not stand, and it seems to me that you have led the Secretary of State astray and many of the clubs that quoted this opinion from the Government today. To conclude: from all of this we hold that this pearl needs a different protection, that we have once again generations that will come behind us this left picture of the old ingredients and of the indigenous Slavonic oaks and other species, and not of the right alochtonous Canadian poplars.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34232	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34233	Mr. Vice President, it is incorrect that fellow Ravens said that the Croatian forests had not been forested there but had just been cut. I would prefer it, it is incorrect in that part which is not true since Croatian forests are regularly there making noises or natural restoration where possible. Of the 350 hectares that have been cut down by Euro-American poplars, it has been forested by an oak and a 172 acres clear, and the rest is naturally rejuvenated and I ask my colleague not to repeat it for this House because it is not true and it is an incorrect quote. And the basic phenomenon of Nature Park is the forest, the forest is what it is, and all the life that's going on in it. And not the other stories that are repeated here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34234	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's the honorary representative of Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to admit right away at the very beginning that I don't understand until the end of this debate. Look, we have a beautiful country, and we all agree on it, and we love that country, and in that love, we're complicated. And in that beautiful country that we all love, we have eight national parks and we're all proud of them. And now there's a proposal to be one special, and we've seen in the movie magical space declare it a national park and then someone's against it. So why are we against having a 9th national park in that beautiful country? Who's against it? It is against the government and are against Croatia's forests which are also lords and hunting grounds there. Now for what reason? I don't know what reason it is, namely the Government has numbered some of its reasons but there may be one reason why the government has not stated in its opinion, which may be determined for this government's position. There's a hunting ground in this area called Tikvesha that worked as a protocol hunting ground. And what does a protocol hunting ground mean? That means high-ranking politicians, high-ranking officials go out there hunting, and then they shoot the game, and then it all goes down to the state's expense, and then after that kind of hunt, they do lunch and they taste a drop of fine wine there. The White Riesling. Now perhaps this is the reason that it is not stated in the government's opinion that government officials continue with such an activity. And if a national park is declared, it's not there. Because I think it's one of the important reasons, though, since those who are listed here are completely strange, and the first one says it's unacceptable because the area proposed to declare a national park is a predominantly altered area, so that the natural values have also come from much of the influence of man. After this government opinion, I'm afraid the government may also decide that Brijuni National Park should be removed from its national park rank. Because Brijuni must have known to the government a swampy area of malaria that was cultivated by an Austrian man named Coopervizer. He bought all those Brijuni islands, it seems to me from some Italian count, and then he arranged it. And all the things that Brijuni look like today, it's all created by a human hand. And now if this reason that the government states is correct, and if the government is going to react logically and condescendingly, then I expect it to propose that Brijuni stop being a national park. That's what I think Croatian forests and hunters would like. Because there's a lot of deer shovelers out there, so hunters would have a lot to shoot at. The Brijuni. And there's a lot of Cooperviser so planted a lot of those trees that the trees were all over the year old it would be foresters, please ask Mrs. Babić Petricevic to behave according to the place.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34236	I'm asking you to take individual groups of five. 6. MPs are not party but more party-friendly. You didn't get the word "respectable MPs."
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34237	So, if the hunters got into those Brijuni, we'd have a lot of work and lots of fun. And the foresters would have a lot of work to do because I'm telling you, there are over 100-year-old trees out there. There's an olive that's 1,500 years old, and it's all going to come out like on these videos we've seen here. I hope it doesn't happen and Brijuni will remain a national park. No matter what they're made of human hands. What do the Croatian forests say? I have a memo here and there is a head of the real Croatian forests in which it writes next. Proposers propose an unconditional step for the interest of the tireless foreign security lobby, and since we have already mentioned an international security lobby, writes the author of this text and puts the parentheses, translated eco-imperialists and closes the bracket, it is also necessary to explain in this debate that experts invited by SDP politicians serve as an instrument and in the hands of the so-called "species". The Green Mafia. We especially stress that we must not allow us to become new victims on the long list of eco-imperialism, where we can say very dedicatedly the work of our newly-roasted experts whose interest is anything but Croatian. Now look at the author of this outrageously rude and rather illiterate text writing this text on the title of the Croatian Forests and he is also the head of some kind of management of the forest area of Osijek. Director. I suggest to the government that the gentleman who dared write such a net shift tomorrow, preferably today if the government meets, because that man shames the Republic of Croatia, because he is an international institution who otherwise supports this proposal, he calls them imperialists, and what he said to the green mob, he calls them mobsters. And the proposer of this law means SDP, declares anti-Croatian. Watch out for anti-Croatian because we suggest that Kopachi ass be declared Croatian National Park. Man has a problem with logic perhaps with health but certainly not for the job he does because Croatia shames. Which are now arguments for arguments against. I guess the arguments for them don't need to be repeated, so I don't think it's necessary to prove to anyone that the status of the national park allows for better protection of that Kopački rit, but the status that it now has. Well, one time, I guess it's pretty clear to everyone. What arguments are against it. In addition to the one I have already analysed, it is said that any economic activity in the area should be suspended. So listen to it not that it's incorrect, it's just unintelligent. So why don't you go to any national park and see if people do tourism there, so if it's some kind of economic activity, I think it is. So let's see if they can deal with tourism and farming, and then they place their agricultural products to these tourists. So let's think about whether a national park brand is better than a nature park, so I think it is. So that argument is out, it's completely illogical and just incomprehensible. Then he says that a hundred families would be left without bread, please. Well, a hundred families would have something to do, to deal with eco tourism if nothing else. Then, to keep the foresters out of work. Well, don't you really think there's nothing to look for in the National Park? They have nothing to do, so they do. Even in the national park, he has to take care of that national park. He's the only one who doesn't have an uncontrollable cut. It's not there. That's true. But there are jobs for the foresters in the national park. And then it would be a degradation of the security regime in the south. But it's completely incorrect. Because the national park is a far higher degree of protection than what exists. So when we analyze these arguments that are being held against, we see that they're not worth anything at all. There is only political will, or no political will, to further protect one area not because of us because of generations to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34238	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34239	Mr. President, so fellow STazic said like this, the forest manager added an important man and I don't know what. This last one is completely incorrect. So he didn't know what. The exact quote is, a member of the Administrative Council of the Public Institute of Nature Park Kopački ass. Currently engaged in the collapse of a management plan that is constantly praised by counterpart state secretary Antolovic. But the same board member was appointed by counterpart Antolovic to this administrative council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34240	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34241	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. After what's been said here during the debate so far, it's actually a question of whether it makes sense to continue the debate. Because it's obvious that more and more is trying to be interesting if you want to also political ideologically classify and divide, not to value the arguments that fall here. It is still somewhat understandable to me when MPs speak, but it is totally unacceptable for me to interpret Articles 150, 151 and 152 incorrectly, both incorrectly and in this debate, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I quoted on behalf of our club Article 152, which speaks of which economic activities can be carried out, which so far have been carried out so that they can continue when they are carried out when the national park is declared. It is also quite clear that the law in accordance with the Constitution for the protection of nature and of natural protected values can limit certain activities, but also lay down certain activities that will be directed in that direction. For this reason, in no way does variants threaten the danger of people losing their jobs. It may occur that some should change the work they do. Perhaps, and it would happen to change the decisions on who will be involved in the maintenance and management of natural resources in the national park, this could not be done beyond the administration and competent councils and bodies of the national park. But it is quite clear that it is completely incorrect and unacceptable to claim that now the population living there could no longer live in a national park. How economic activities carried out could not be carried out, while at the same time writing something else in the law. And that's why I think we really need to get back to the argument issue. We need to get back to the question of all the questions. It is incorrect to say that if there were no forest, there would be no reason to have a park of nature or a national park. Well, that doesn't stand. So there are national parks in the desert that have been declared, where the desert has been declared a national park. It's not just a forest, forest eco community here, but also a water and a bar, etc. the eco-communities to be protected and here the debate needs to be led from the aspect of the goods that are threatened, whether or not it needs to be raised to a higher level of protection with a view to enabling this protected good to survive behind the generation that comes behind us, on the one hand. On the other hand, under such specific circumstances as the national park and the management of natural resources and natural resources within it, and the intended purpose must be to maintain these very resources and to protect how to then put it into an appropriate activity that will also be useful for people. From tourism, catering through agriculture, forestry, hunting and other economic activities, as stated in the law so far or carried out until the national park can be declared. And I can hardly imagine, regardless of whether it will remain a park of nature or a national park, that other than forestry, hunting, fishing, a little agriculture, a little livestock may be carried out there, say, by the food industry or by the chemical industry. Which doesn't mean that maybe you wouldn't be... Because even in nature park, that wouldn't have happened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, such arguments when we present actually do not want to face a fundamental problem, whether or not natural resources that are subject to general interest and protection are at risk. Unfortunately, that's a question of all sorts. Indicators, current indicators warn that many types of these goods are already at risk. And for that reason not only for Kopački butt, as a park of nature, there's an idea to declare it a national park. But there is an idea in the European Community, in the European Union, and in accordance with the conventions which have been joined by members of the European Union and Croatia, although not yet a member of the European Union to protect itself, it has declared as a national park an entire stream of the Mura, Drava and Danube rivers. And that even inhabited places and cities are in touch with the national park. This does not mean that there will be no economic activity, and besides, colleagues know that. They know about the Capochvarska idea, etc. Therefore, if we want to talk from this point of view, the question is what can the Republic of Croatia and should seek as its own interest. Now that's the basic question. Whether it is our interest to declare something national park and put it into the function of maintaining biological species in that park and, at the same time, to extract about the sustainable development and management of the national park of economic and other social benefits for the population who live there first and for the Republic of Croatia. ... I think that's possible. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think our law now allows, and if it's not possible or when, to be even more precise, if by law it wouldn't be possible, which is not true, it's possible, if it weren't for us to change and supplement the law. Then we'd have to amend and supplement the law, and that shouldn't be the reason why we don't accept that this is declared a national park. Moreover, I think that Kopački rit deserves because of the value it holds for the present and future generations as a good that is not only of interest to the Republic of Croatia but as a good that crosses our borders, it is a civilizational good. Because in this area there are certain types of flora and fauna that simply do not live anywhere else and should be maintained for the sake of good, civilizational good or civilizational gain of the human community. Well, you see, when we look at it from that point of view, then we have to ask the next question. Is national park level enough? Or, in the context of the national park, special areas and special reserves should also be declared additional for certain flora and fauna species that should be further protected and which should not be influenced by human or any other factor in order to be compromised, of course, except for more force which man cannot normally manage for the time being. And for that reason, please nice, it's not good for this bill to refuse. I plead to be serious, to realize that this is a question that is of interest to all of us, and that this issue is not just a matter of discussion. I am convinced that our colleagues would not mind having this law pass the first reading, and if we should task the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consistently study the conventions we have adopted, to study our Nature Protection Act, to record the situation in Nature Park Kopački rit and to realize that it is necessary to take appropriate measures as soon as possible to protect it well. Please, if you have colleagues and colleagues on your way there as soon as possible. You know, you have such beauty that your breath stops from the beauty of nature that appears before you, and at the same time when you come across a desert field which until yesterday has been cut down, dislocated, abandoned, ruined, and other forms of life, not only those who are listed on it, but also others who are because those previous ones were not in the eco system went off that space, and then you give a shit about the heart. Because you have a simple feeling that you've taken something that nature has offered to all of us and the generations that come behind us. And I think that we have both human and political in historical and whatever you want, even personal responsibility because by the case, we have been chosen to represent the people today to make a move to protect this good in the interests of all of us and the future that comes behind us. It's not good, I'm undermining again, turning things around in a way that's actually playing regulations. Let us look at paragraph 152. 5. You will see that it is not true that there is no economic activity. If that is so, it is quite clear that there is no way that people will lose their jobs, but that these economic activities will have to and should be put into function not to make profit but above all to protect those functions from the protected good that is of interest and which should be declared to be national good, but that does not mean that people will not work in it, however. And it won't make any money, though. So I think that we are, we are probably in a situation where today-to-morrow we need to discuss some other areas of the Republic of Croatia as well as... Like this and like that. [[You don't understand.]] And thank God that we have such beauty that we can and should keep for ourselves and for generations behind us and of course for all those who will come tomorrow to watch and learn in these places what they will not actually have more opportunities to see in their fields and in their homelands and pay for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34242	Thank you. Here we are invited to Kopački butt, with the fact that the distinguished representative Stazic does not declare us a protocol hunter. The word has a distinguished representative, Mato Šimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it is certain that Kopački ass represents a unique natural phenomenon which confirms and includes this area in... a list of important habitats of international importance. [[You don't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia recognized its value and protected this area by nature park category and a special zoo reserve. I note that according to the Nature Protection Act, Article 150 is located between categories of national park and nature park. This proposal opens a debate on whether the current category of protection of Kopački rit is appropriate or not. When considering this proposal, the arguments of the profession should primarily be managed. Therefore, I must immediately say that the reasons attached to the proposal for a law are not supported, although a number of violations of the laws, which would be expected to be based on the findings of the inspection services, have been brought forward, however. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, it is firstly necessary, as the applicants have rightly decided, to determine whether there is a foothold for the declaration of Kopački rita by national park. The terms and conditions of space certainly would, since the existing boundaries of nature parks would be greatly extended by increasing this proposal, but it is hardly a sufficient condition for the declaration. The gravity of the definition is still holding it to a predominantly unchanged area. Proposers, of course, at the beginning of not two, say that I quote, are the most preserved and most significant floodous areas of the Danube River throughout Central Europe. But something further jumps into their mouths. In one place, it is claimed that the area is largely unchanged, and then on another it proves that it is threatened by various influences, so I quote, one third are the extremely endangered ecological systems of the flood forests, the highest terrain outside the range of regular floods covered by the forest of the shell oak which today, thanks to excessive cutting, is only in trace. I have to wonder here whether it's a minor influence or not. If it's influence, and I believe it is, because I'm re-proposing talks about excessive cutting, then the woods are only in the tracks today. That's what best says he's not just minor. It seems to me, therefore, that the applicants could not decide between the desire to show the preservation needed to demonstrate that this area meets the criteria of the national park and the need to highlight the threat of how this can be read under point 2.2. which speaks of how natural goods, intensive forestry, hunting and agriculture can be managed and used. I'm just quoting some claims. The current way of management cannot be considered to be a holding on the principles of sustainability and sustainable development. Well, gentlemen, if it's been changed, and if it's been intensely managed as you claim it, then it can't be declared a national park, and if it has to be, then maybe it's not as badly managed as you've shown in your explanation. I'd like to know exactly what it is, because I repeat, none of what you're saying is supported by the findings of the competent authorities, or the inspection. The nature park category itself sets limits to economic activity which is once again excluded in areas of a special zoo reserve. The reasons why the protection of Kopački rita from the category of nature park would be raised to the category of national park such as quotes, preventing economic damage in the economy caused by unsuitable use of natural goods. We should first prove, for now we can only claim that 150 people employed in the Croatian forests are likely to lose their jobs and it is hard to believe that the job of rebuilding and reforestation is so large that they will not lose their jobs, thus no longer indicating who will take them over and pay the wages. I stress, it's about Baranja. This seems to me to me that the recipe for the economic recovery of this area is the announcement of a national park. In addition, between 40 and 45 thousand cc's of wooden varieties will not be delivered to the domestic wood industry. Croatian forests sign five-year contract with wood growers, and excluding these areas from management means not only in the park area but also in those forests that have not been included in it so far, and what the promoters are looking for. That wooden mass can't be cut anywhere else. It is therefore unclear how a positive economic effect can be achieved when the national park criterion raises the level of protection and narrows economic activity. The development of eco tourism does not prevent anything now. With regard to hunting data from 1997 following peaceful reintegration in the Kopački rit area, 500 throats of deer savages have been found in a troubled age and sex structure. With great effort and considerable financial investment, Croatian forests have raised the number of parent herds to 1600 individuals over the years. I would personally like to know if you have heard the local community's opinion on the proposal in any way before it is referred to in the parliamentary procedure. It is clear that we cannot be guided solely by economic interests but that we should seek agreement between nature protection, economic activity and the interests of the local community. In the world, they tend to call it sustainable development. That's what we should be trying to do. We need to keep our bathing ass safe because we've, I'll repeat it so many times today, we just borrowed from our kids, but we need to do it the right way. The category of nature park with a special zoo reserve is sufficient level of protection that correctly values and coordinates nature protection with the economic potential of that area, which can be the driver of this part of the country. I find declaring the national park unnecessary and even counterproductive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34244	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34245	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the 1960s, based on a series of scientific papers in the field of hydrology, biology, geology, ecologicals, ornithology, botanists developed in the area of Kopački rita, the professional public and the competent state authorities recognized the specific values of this area. As early as 1967, part of the Drava River flood area was protected in the area of 17 thousand and 700 hectares to preserve its original natural values. Since 1976, the protected area of the Nature Protection Act has acquired the status of the nature park, and within it, a narrow area of that park in the area of 7 thousand and 700 hectares has been declared a special law, a zoo reserve. The nature park category in the area was also confirmed by the Croatian Parliament by the adoption of the Nature Park Act "Kopački rit" in 1999, which increased the protected area to 23 thousand 896 hectares with detailed established borders. I pointed out this for only one reason, to show that in Croatia or in our country of Croatia there is a long-term continuous range of activities on the protection of this area, based on professional and scientific analyses and backgrounds, to make it the basis of a series of research works carried out in this area. Today, the management of nature park Kopački rit is conducted by the public institution Nature Park Kopački rit based on the management plan. Professional institutions, the current protection regime implemented by a public institution, consider appropriate. In the design of a spatial plan of this area under way, it is estimated that the area of Biljsko rita along the southwest border of the park, and the direct northern border has identical natural characteristics, and therefore their protection should be considered and implemented in accordance with the procedure provided for by the Nature Protection Act. Proposer of this law, fellow MPs Pančić, Gavran and Leko suggest that the area of the existing nature park Kopački butt from an area of 23 thousand hectares be increased to 37 and declared a national park Kopački rit. No valid reasons shall be provided for the extension of the area. Why? The Kopački rit and the flood valley of Danube and Drava are known to be very rich in diverse flora and fauna, that in this area there is a centre for the spread of Central European populations of valuable and protected birds as habitats of a series of rare and endangered mammals. DA’s flood area is the most important fish nest in Central Danube and that many species of endangered plants and animals have been preserved, however, it is not in the entire proposed area of 37.5 thousand hectares. Water and swamp systems are well preserved in particular in flood areas and represent a natural heritage of international importance. Therefore, the area of Kopački rit is included in the list of important areas of international importance, so-called Ramsar area. According to my assessment, the area of Kopački rit has an appropriate category of protection as a nature park, within which there is a particular area in the category of zoo reserve as a significantly stricter protection regime. By declaring a national park in the whole area, it would contribute to the degradation of the protection regime for a specially protected reserve. Proposers in the assessment of the situation manage and use of natural resources in this area point out that it is inappropriate and unacceptable from the point of view of protection and sustainable use of natural values, especially in the areas most threatened in the area. They claim that Croatian forests are using forest surfaces with clean cutting and do not make any noise. Furthermore, Croatian waters maintain... canals destroy wet habitats and threaten forests by lowering groundwater levels. As a good knower of this area and of the situation on the ground of such an assessment of the situation I could not possibly accept, it is baseless, unrealistic, and I would say dubious. The assessment is contradictory to the basic conditions provided for in the national park area, which I would support with the following facts. The space to which protection is proposed to extend is mostly degraded, the professional valorisation of space and the values to be protected is not created, the sociological analysis for this space has not been made. The boundaries of the future protected area are not shown on the corresponding review basis. Tourism in Kopački rit is only in formation and cannot quickly develop into a profitable activity. All economic activity should put an end to this resulting in the eviction of the population in the area of the hard-hit war in the Homeland War. The applicants did not explain in order to provide financial resources for the management costs of the national park. The public debate on the proposal to declare a national park has not been conducted in units of local self-government. Local self-government units object to the bill. In spite of this and finally this Law is the opposite of the law on the protection of nature, the Law on spatial planning, the strategy and the programme of spatial planning and the county spatial plan of Osijek-Baranja County. And in the end, I would conclude, so I believe that the bill to declare the National Park is Kopački butt right now should be rejected. It is necessary to wait for the adoption of the new Nature Protection Act, and then to implement a comprehensive valorisation of the original natural values and the conservation of the ecological systems of space Kopački rit and to assess the present and, if necessary, propose another appropriate type of protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34246	Thank you. Replicated Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34247	Mr. Vice-President, I don't normally take the tiles lightly to replicate but I am motivated by the closing word of my colleague Mark Shirtz when he says that at this point the law should refuse to consider the amendment of the Nature Act, etc., I have to say that I am not too burdened with those who accuse us of being connected with eco-imperialism that we represent every interest just not Croatia, etc., because it is not a problem what he writes but who wrote it, since I know who wrote it then it is not necessary to pay attention to the ruling party to keep such people in certain functions. But let me go back to this basic question. You see us as one of the motives why we have proposed and why we support our colleagues for proposing this Law, fearing the immediate future of our colleagues. No motivation of eco-imperialism, no special interests but fear of a direct future, we would like to remind you that it is 4. 8th of last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed a memorandum of stand by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. The colleagues and colleagues there wrote among other things that Croatia will restructure Croatian forests and begin the privatisation process of Croatian forests. We in Slavonia do not agree to privatise Croatian forests in the nature park Kopački rit and therefore want to become a national park to prevent it. I agree with my colleagues that there may be a risk of someone losing their jobs, but not 150 but a few hundred of them if they are privatised to Croatian forests, because those who will also buy them will buy them for economic cost and not for their maintenance and renewal. And colleagues have motivated us to propose this law, and so please let the law go further into the procedure let the government prepare a final bill of law, let it find the best solution but to protect this well so that it is not ruined by the privatisation that will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34248	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34249	Mr. Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In my presentation, I did not mention the eco-mafia at all, although I could give a very extensive lecture to this House on the subject. Don't get carried away she really exists in Europe. I have very real and detailed evidence for that. And I also didn't... Please. ... [[You can't hear the incursion from the bench.]] Also, in my debate, I have not touched privatisation at all, and of course I have an opinion on it. [[You can't hear the incursion from the bench.]] However, what I pointed out in my debate is that I want to repeat it again. This proposal is not professionally prepared, it is contrary to existing Croatian laws, and I don't think we should take the initiative to let this proposal go to another reading. I advocate that we pass a new Nature Protection Act, a professional institution, and in the first place, the Nature Protection Institute, and that the competent ministry implements the valorisation of that space. Well, gentlemen, I'm nice to that space too, and I believe far more sentimentally than those who have been exposed here today. But we cannot propose something that is contrary to the spatial plan of the Croatian strategy, the spatial arrangement. What is the Act on the Protection of Nature is the opposite, and I was tolerant and did not want to list a number of incorrect arguments that are contained in this programme, that is, the bill of law stated which can be easily shot down without any problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34250	Thank you. Because at the last minute, you've been correcting an incorrect quote, but now we're going in reverse. But please, correcting an incorrect quote on the presentation of a distinguished representative, a basic exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34251	Mr. President, there's no last minute or first moment, there's a possibility of raising a plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34252	You're on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34253	Let him. As long as my colleague's out. So you didn't do me any favors. So, the incorrect quote is, no I said..
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34254	Here's your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34255	You're, uh, very combative, you've assured me of that. Therefore, the incorrect assumption is that it is first necessary to pass the Nature Protection Act. That's an incorrect quote. It is true that this Law can be adopted directly, and the story of the adoption of the Nature Protection Act is so that with the legal status of nature protection we can change what we can expect from the Secretary of State to make, for example, their legal acrobatics from the national park status of a nature park. These are things that wouldn't surprise me at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34256	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nevenka Majedenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34257	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that, at or before the adoption of such an important law, comprehensive analyses of the present situation and of the real benefit assessment must be made, as well as losses expected by its application. Certainly the pompous sound of words we want the National Park Kopački rit, we fight for the eastern Croatia to get the largest national park in Croatia, and I wonder if just passing a law of five articles resolving the issue of the establishment of Kopački rit National Park? Are all material, professional and institutional conditions created to implement the proposed law? Professional, scientific and economic analyses need to show what is obtained and what is lost, what are the advantages and benefits, and what weaknesses and disadvantages arise by declaring this area a national park? It also needs to be realistically assessed in which time and with which and whose means it can be done. The Proposer of the Law did not present any professional and scientific study of what the national park should look like. What would happen to existing channels, dams, waterways and forests, so that man does not sustain them? How much would that affect the entire plant and animal world? To what extent did aggressive species prevail and destroy the existing flora and fauna? Who would prevent infectious diseases? Would a Baranian deer as the only one currently... without the help of a man survive the infection with a great meth. I would like to mention a few facts that should be seriously considered before changing the current category of protection of Kopački rit. And that's what they Kopački rit as a park of nature is already a predominantly changed area, as the current natural values are mostly created by the action of man. By expanding the borders of the future national park, the entire area of the International port of Osijek should stop operating economically. Croatian forests, Croatian waters and Belje should suspend any economic activity in the area. And what would that mean for a local population that was hit hard by war destruction, and where are economic indicators of development far below the average of the Republic of Croatia? I don't think the proposed law has even offered an answer to these questions. The economic operators of Croatia's forests, Croatian waters and others who have acted and have so far cared about the preservation and protection of nature parks are certainly sufficiently professional and qualified to manifest themselves and give their opinion under this bill. And did anyone contact them at all, or maybe that doesn't matter to the motion at all? And finally, what about the local population living in the area of the proposed national park? The data on the population are missing, how many live in a protected area, what does he do, will he have to move out, what will he live on, is that what he wants? A large swampy area will also lead to an increase in mosquitoes. In the County of Osijek-Baranja Mayor Krešimir Bubalo and the headship has made a strategy to curb and protect mosquitoes so that the population can live as normally there. I suggest that few legislators of the law camp in the area of Nature Park feel all the benefits of this life in nature with the presence of mosquitoes. It was said in the debate that the declaration of the National Park is the interest of Slavonia and Baranja, that it is a development step forward. I cannot accept that the interest of us Slavs and Baranjacs is that this area is wet and abandoned. I cannot accept that the interest of us Slavonians and Baranjacs is the imminent eviction of the remaining inhabitants due to the termination of almost all economic and agricultural activities, so before this is about border areas. Nature Park status is enough to protect this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34258	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34259	She's asking a distinguished representative to prevent infectious diseases in animals in the National Park? It's as if the National Park declaration encourages the spread of infectious diseases in animals. But let me answer you in order to prevent it. It would be very easy to prevent, through the activities of the veterinary service, as well as in other National Parks, for example in Brijuni, where there is no place among those shovels of large spreads of infectious diseases, so they are not at risk by being declared National Park Brijuni. And it's not your business here you know about the concern of spreading infectious diseases in the national park, it's about a hunting lobby that wants hunting-politicalally I'd say, who wants to keep a pumpkin out there shooting deer. That's what this is about. And that's what people should say and confess. I'm just surprised the government didn't honestly write that in her opinion. To say, we're interested in hunting there. Leave us alone to hunt. That's what we're interested in, that's what we want, that's what we've been doing so far, that's what those before us have been doing there since Karadjordjevic. And please don't put these incomprehensible veterinary problems into this very simple problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34260	Answer, reply to the replica, distinguished representative Majdenić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34261	Well, I have to say, I still think this 5-point bill doesn't solve the national park issue. In the first article, I'm going to tell you right away that it says that, yes, it's only about increasing the total surface area, that it's going to be 37,000 458 acres. What do you think if this wetland surface increases that there will be no spread of infectious diseases? The 2nd article tells you in fact you're just talking about the boundaries of the Kopački ass National Park. In the third article, it is only said that it is actually prescribed that the public institution of the Park of Nature Kopački rit which, which manages the park of nature, continues to manage the national park under the name of a public institution. Article 4 provides that on the date of entry into force of this Act, the Law on Nature Park and Article 5 shall cease to apply, and the provision of Article 5 is prescribed that, on the day of entry into force of this Act, the day of entry into force of this Law. This is not a solution to the establishment of a national park, it is not a solution to those problems that the population has in the area. Slavonia and Baranja do not deserve to be a large swampy area that has been abandoned without economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34262	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This is a truly beautiful and interesting subject that can cheer but can also cause different conflicting opinions, disagreements, disagreements. It moves from catastrophic pessimism to naive optimism depending on how it wants to be discussed. I am clearly referring to the context of nature protection and, clearly, this legitimate topic and the proposal to set up a new national park. It means the largest form of protection that exists in the Republic of Croatia. To determine or determine that the situation in nature protection is not the best, it is not the best quality, and it is probably the fact that we will all agree on. But perhaps the causes, and one of the reasons is the way this debate is being debated, which is why the situation in nature protection is not what it should be. It does not lie exclusively in organisational forms and norms that exist in relation to the Nature Protection Act. It's always the same thing in fact. Social phenomena always manifest the same. The predatory mentality always exists in every sphere. He's everywhere he's allowed to try to spread his interest, trying to abuse both people and space and time. And that's exactly what this fact is talking about, about the regularity of a very serious debate that needs to have its own legislative reasons, but also about the fact that the situation is being corrected. It is unquestionable that the legislators of this bill want to strengthen this space in protection. So they want not only to preserve it, but also to fertilize it. And I don't think there's a fight in that attitude. I think everyone absolutely wants the space to remain preserved, to enlarge itself in its excellence, and to make it available to people as much as possible. People are just as important factors as space. The space without people isn't the space we remember today. It's people who kind of characterise that space, and it's generational. They simply become part of the space especially when it comes to the indigenous population that has been for centuries and it is almost without exception for all protected landscapes an identical attitude. They passed part of that space generationally into that space. You know, in some of the places where I come from, somehow, and people have identified themselves, so you can recognize them on their faces part of that landscape. Part of that effort, misery, trouble because all of these ends, if we try to bring them closer to all of us now, our national parks are all places where they didn't like to live, where they didn't like to stay, where they only came if they invited you to a field trip or if you had some obligation within your Assembly board. These gentlemen were spaces that remained that way because people simply didn't have any activity because if they had any activity then they wouldn't have been particularly protected landscapes. It wouldn't be nature parks, it wouldn't be national parks. Does Croatia have the right policy regarding space and communication with space? I don't think so. Why would I think that? So I think it's from experience in those places where national parks have come to life, where they have experience of 15 years, where even some conclusions about the time period that has passed are possible. So, in principle, I would like to begin by saying that there are negative experiences in terms of how we consume space and in the context of protected landscapes, nature parks and national parks. Because there are today in Croatia and those parts called national parks that would be very happy to trade today for Kopački rit to become a national park, let's say that Kornati National Park is no longer a national park. And you have this unique view of both people and owners, and yet he's the worst tourist. So visitors who visit that part of the space. Why? So because the introduction of norms unfortunately in our society has created a habit of creating a bureaucratic apparatus that not only creates normative habits but also stops all possibilities and proper action within the economy but also lives in that space, so the consequences are that we have lost people as domicills, they are gone. We lost their tradition, their cultural habits, but also their needs. We lost one piece of sovereignty in the space that actually resulted in this landscape becoming a national park. A space that once had huge resources in terms of various kinds of cultures, which needed its own population, was left without it. The only new if we can call him a vegetarian in that space has become an allephic pine which in Dalmatia is not much appreciated except that in the season he is causing huge problems, but unfortunately he is welcome because no one calls him, no one needs him, and he is creating, giving birth, and he is developing very quickly. And it's dangerous because human activity is lost in those areas. Therefore, when we talk about these and these topics, we need to speak clearly from the point of view of experience, experience of functioning, as well as about tourists. I'll have the Kornati National Park again. There are tourists who come to Kornati National Park, unfortunately brought into a situation if they come once again they will very rarely come. Why is it because administrative, bureaucratic habits and habits have put him in a position not to be paid there for the reason that he will first intercept some... who will stop him during the voyage, charge him twice 80 kuna times the number of persons, and he will then ask and what can I do now? You can't do anything. You can just keep sailing. And hope you don't have to say yes anywhere because you won't be able to say yes anywhere. So we have to correct our habits and we have to create that position in nature protection that corresponds to humans, landscapes and sustainable development in these areas. Because these are pre-attractive spaces, these are spaces dedicated in some way to a marketing presentation of some part of our country or country entirely. Of course, the proposal to set up this national park should also go with that trend, the trend of sustainable development, means that the domicills are cut off. THAT they are those who will be asked what form of protection they want and what kind of activities they want. That the spatial plan that will define the field of human activity will be approximated both to them and to nature. Because if there's no harmony between those two participants, then all of this was done backwards. Then we can make a decision on the establishment of a new national park but in three years we will be back where we are today and determine the shortcomings it has with the national park and without the national park. Therefore, I would like to refer this debate and appeal to the members of the Government in particular, in the sense that we need to take a more effective look at the existing forms of organization in the context of nature protection. Special visits are particularly normative because the area declared by the national park by more local self-government and there is no competence in the work. And that's where new conflicts happen, which again negatively result. In support of this, therefore, because this is a legitimate idea because this is a legitimate position, it is very important to face all the challenges and problems of these institutions but also the overall problem of nature protection because it is indivisible and immeasurable in terms of the immeasurable negative connotation that comes unless the best answers to the question of human and nature relations are found.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34264	Thank you very much, fellow Markov. It's next, dear colleague Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34265	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposed Law on the Announcing of the National Park Kopački butt, the promoter of a few MPs. I must say that this is a highly chosen bill that we must systematically consider and without selectively review because citizens of the Republic of Croatia are asking us for a quality legal framework in which the importance of nature conservation and the human environment will be implemented. For this very reason, today we must seriously address the issue of Nature Park Kopački rit and allow the protection of this exceptional natural phenomenon to continue gradually and in line with the development of the entire surrounding area. I suggest that for now, the bill of law on the declaration of Nature Park Kopački ris to the National Park for more, on the declaration of nature park Kopački ass to the National Park for several reasons. First of all, this bill does not agree with all interested parties present in the given area. The interest of natural and legal persons who, in a normal situation together should be the bearers of such an important project, are in direct conflict. Such a situation does not allow the development of the necessary conditions for the implementation of such an important law. And its adoption would be counterproductive. Among those who are against the declaration of the national park so far are a relatively large part of the local population, then foresters, hunters and even some local associations dealing with nature protection. I wouldn't want to question the natural value of Kopac's ass. It is known how rare wetlands are in Europe. Scientific research has shown an extremely biological diversity in this area. And all of this is confirmed by the inclusion of Kopački rit in the Ramstar list of internationally significant swamps. Kopak's ass is therefore a valuable area, its protection may increase further, but this bill can be said abruptly and prematurely. I would like to remind you that the basic phenomenon is that the southern park is protected as a special zoo where no actions and activities are allowed to disrupt the natural balance. Although nature park was declared still in 1976, during the Homeland War a long series of protections of the nature of Kopački rit was interrupted. The local population has focused on other economic activities and it is now necessary to reroute the interests of the people living there and to ensure that they benefit from the declaration of the national park. I remind you that in December 2003 by burning down part of the Nature Park Vranjsko lake we were warned of the drastic consequences that could lead to conflict of interest over the protected part of nature. Such situations where, with nature, masters and human fates must be dealt with primarily by consensus, dialogue and cooperation of all stakeholders. The National Park declaration should be a project planned and implemented through several stages. The project should include local self-government, population and economic branches present in the area of a possible national park and in the immediate vicinity. The passing of such a law without prior processing and appropriate preparation of the terrain can cause resistance to the population, and lead to the aforementioned extreme situations. We from Zagreb, of course, see the benefit and we find it a great idea to declare this new national park, but it will have to be carried out by the inhabitants of that area. They need to be sensitised to the protection of nature, and more importantly they need to find their direct economic interest in it. Making centralized decisions from Zagreb without consulting those who will have the most influence on which these decisions are most affected is not good. The government is working intensively on issues of nature protection and a recent management plan has been developed in this sense. We are aware that Croatia has not yet protected a sufficient share of its area and the Kopački rit will likely be more strictly protected in the future in line with the national biodiversity strategy. Nature protection issues will also be discussed when joining the European Union. This is exactly the situation where we can show that we want to develop modern European governance systems in Croatia, and one of them is the proper management of natural potentials. But that we will do so in our own rhythm and according to our legacy and way of managing. We need to show that we are not simply going to review some law simply to rewrite some law because it is successful elsewhere but that it should be adapted to the conditions on the ground to prepare its introduction and application. If we continue to impose laws without the consent of local participants and without making sure that these laws can be implemented sooner, then we cannot be surprised why the laws are not respected and said that the rule of law does not work. We are just about to get on time and just enough time ahead of time to start thinking about the appropriate protection of Nature Park Kopački ass. The decision to adopt this law today would be reckless and reckless and could lead to a counter-reaction and could lead people to believe that economic development is in line with the principles of nature protection. We advocate sustainable development as the only option for Croatia's future, which means that such important decisions should be made after quality preparation, problem development and with solutions that will take into account all stakeholders, especially the local population. The implementation of the management plan, which provides for the implementation of a number of measures to protect nature and nature parks, should be awaited. The management plan has been developed in accordance with the principles of sustainable development and takes into account all the specificities of certain parts of that area. Appropriate measures are provided for in accordance with the hydrological, biological and economic properties of the specific Kopački rit zones. The Public Nature Park Kopački rit has shown its current activity to successfully implement the given area. This leads us to conclude that with the help of the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Support of the Ministry of Culture, it will successfully implement the management plan. It will achieve an even greater restoration of nature and a reduction of the impact of human activities on nature in Kopački rit. Special attention is paid to the preservation of the most important biological features of the park, the resting place of swamp birds and the freezing of fish from the Danube and Drava streams. Tourism is an economic branch that, with the necessary monitoring measures, can best be integrated into nature protection. Yet nature Kopački rit is already recognised the value that tourist activity represents for the local population. Proposers also expressed doubts about the management of forest resources in the area of Nature Park Kopački rit. If that doubt is justified, then the said method is cut in disagreement with the current law and the situation needs to be regulated regardless of the declaration of the national park. For the sake of all of this, I propose that the Parliamentary Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection check the way in which forest areas are managed and report to the competent authority on the implementation of the law in such areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34266	Thank you, dear colleague Zubovic. It's time for a respected colleague, Šišljagic. Here you go, buddy. Easy, easy. [[Intruder: A replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry I'm late. Well, here's a few words of really my personal opinion of all this, so consider it. I believe that all of us sitting in this assembly ultimately want the good of both Slavonia and Baranja, that I want to believe that this proposal on the declaration of the national park is neither bad nor has any other intentions, but simply that this pearl of nature is simply a pearl of nature, that it is in a more original, more natural form preserved. But I also think that it must take care of the inhabitants of the area, the municipalities and cities that border the contact areas in the area, that it must be guided and seen what is currently happening in the nature park, but what has happened years earlier. I'm correcting one negative quote really thinks that at some point we might have gone wrong over there. We have faced one proposal and we have faced on the other side of the Croatian forest, that is, hunters who, in my opinion, have nothing to do with what we are discussing today. We are discussing the proposal, I mean as serious people with facts and arguments I agree with both of those who present this proposal here before the Croatian Parliament. But I also hope with respect for us, or myself personally, trying facts and arguments, and from what I see there in that area where I've lived for years what's going on. It's not the first proposal in this form. And it is true that the Osijek-Baranja County also wished well for its end, i.e. Baranja and Kopački rit, as early as 98th, proposed an initiative in the Osijek-Baranja County Assembly to declare Kopački rita a national park. And it concluded on October 29, 98, so on the launch of the initiative. What was that supposed to mean? This meant that, from the professional level of assessment, all the positive and negative sides of such a proposal were used not only in relation to the plant and animal world in the nature park, but also in the overall relations in Baranja, or in that border area where the nature park is a contact zone, where the nature park is. 17 December 98nd again second conclusion of the Osijek-Baranja County and for the purpose of considering information on the state and problem of protection of the right nature park Kopački rit. So something that shows real concern for this area, for these eco systems. Therefore, the conclusions in the sense that precise determination of the borders of Kopački rita is necessary with the support of the proposal for a public nature park to expand the borders to the south to the Drava River. Furthermore, without delay, to initiate the procedure in order to fix the land-book situation, this is particularly true of representative facilities in Tikvesh. All economic users shall be required to comply with the Regulation on the Internal Order of Nature Park and otherwise to initiate appropriate procedures against those who violate it. From the Institute of Spatial Planning, the Public Institute of Nature Park of Osijek-Baranja County then required to launch an initiative to raise the level of protection of nature parks to the national park level with a clear collection of all relevant expert opinions on this initiative. However, after that, a public nature park in collaboration, collecting all relevant expert opinions on this proposal, actually came up with two variants. One variant, which includes an area of 12 thousand hectares, so 12 thousand hectares, is now 37 thousand hectares, which do not cover forest surfaces, and says that in the range of 12 thousand hectares that lie west of the defensive embankment would leave the possibility for those forested surfaces, so that economic activity continues to be carried out, but also hunting management around the castle and in that variant one is said to be sufficient for nature park and nature park protection in the nature park. That was an expert opinion. And in variant two, which includes an area of 14 thousand and 500 hectares that would rule out hunting and forestry in this area, but experts then said that this would negatively affect the population of roach eagles and some kind of birds and mammals that in winter feed on medium game insides. The age of these forests will also increase, and this would damage the ecological balance in terms of ecological balance, I end up with a quote. So the ecological balance in terms of some age, I'm not a forester so I wouldn't go into the profession and technique, but also in one and another version of the protection proposal, the proposal in terms of the national park actually proved more negative than positive, and that's why the initiative then gave up in 98. What the Nature Protection Act actually says when it defines a national park, that the national park is a predominantly unchanged area. I want to repeat here again, I want to express my opinion that this is not a predominantly unchanged area, that there have been major procedures here in the past in the sense of raising a large defensive diaphragm in the length of 70 kilometers that have prevented regular swimming every year in the great part of Baranja. Furthermore, a protective fence was erected to protect the agricultural surfaces from savages and what was not said that the Danube flow was precisely due to these man procedures, due to the drying out of those gloves by 19 kilometers. For 19km in length, counting the Croatian-Hungarian border to the Drava stream in the Danube. So that's where the human hand was going with major procedures, and that's exactly what you're doing, they're saying it's not about the most unaltered area. And when it was over, I'd say it like this. Actually years ago. For two or three years, spatial plans are being made. There are spatial plans of municipalities, spatial plans of nature park "Kopački rit" and I don't know what prevented it from 2001 to 2003, so while the coalition handed over power to Prime Minister Ivo Sanader in the elections. So I really don't know what stopped it from having an impact on spatial plans at the time, to compose this proposal for a national park, and not actually implement what you are now representing and what you want to do with the bill on the declaration of a national park. So there was time and at least that's what I think, three years from 2000 to 2003 there somewhere in November, or December, that if it's such a quality proposal as today's claim here and how we heard here in the House by the promoters, it's simple to adopt this law by 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34268	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34269	Thank you, Mr. President. It has been repeated this second time that it was an area that was largely changed by human intervention in one way or another, and this incorrect assumption was made when spoken on behalf of the club. I've corrected it and now it's repeating itself again and now what's left of me to be poor than to do the same thing again and to correct that incorrect allegation, and it's simply true that more than 50% of what's proposed to protect this law, the Proposed Law on Kopački rit as a national park without that intervention in the floody part of the Danube, etc. So that stubborn repetition in my court means only one thing. The continuation of this anthem so persistently played in the hunting lobby.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34270	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34271	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. One moment, counterpart Šišljagic said that we had needlessly discussed the attitudes of the forest profession, what were the views of the hunting profession that we should discuss here as serious and responsible people. So precisely because I want to discuss here in a responsible and serious way, I had to mention, in my debate, that I was encouraged by a whole series of documents that I have in front of me, that I don't know the responsible or irresponsible people who deal with forestry. I don't know, but it says here that the director, the manager, the director, etc. I also attended a meeting of the home working body of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection where I had to listen to the discussion of persons from the forest profession inappropriate for the premises of the Croatian Parliament. Unsuitable, euphoric, arrogant, rude, unargumented, etc. Well, I was there. I didn't make it up. So it's precisely to remove opportunities for those who obviously represent themselves of some kind of known interest, to remove them from the possibility of affecting us, let's talk about this, about this thing without them, but of course the government also has an obligation to, when it gives an opinion on a certain legislative proposal not only to take their opinion into account because it fits into some stereotype that the government has foreshadowed, but to actually accept the opinion and professions of the nature guard. I repeat again these are serious people, they are professional people, they are busy people who know what nature's protection means and what actually fostering a fundamental phenomenon, and here is a fundamental phenomenon of openness of space to a free Danube that freely unprotected blues these areas. It's a fundamental phenomenon in this area. So let's give us this basic phenomenon that is still represented by over 50% in this area, let's let the experts tell us something, not the foresters, hunters and those who do political disciplines have to talk like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34272	Replica response, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, I actually listened to the allegations here from some material I don't have. It's supposed to be material that came from the Croatian Forests, but I assure you I don't have that material. That I can agree with you if the names are eco-emrealists, green mafias, etc. If that were inappropriate, however, I would like to repeat one more thing. I'd like to repeat that from this first part of my exposure that experts, even though seven years ago, made their point of seeing a proposal for Kopački butt National Park. These were the views of experts because of these views of experts gave up the initiative to initiate the procedure for the national park. As far as the local population is concerned, you could all read in the media that the largest place, the contact zone next to Kopački rit, the current nature park Bilje, is to declare the National Park. As for the Association of Ecologists and Greens, the Osijek Greens are called and then the Association of Ecologists Osijek, Baranja, Osijek and Baranja Fluvios also opposes this proposal to declare nature park Kopački rit in the national park. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34274	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must admit that I do not understand the logic of Mr. Šišljagic, who says a rash has been built on the Danube, and now because a rash has been built on the Danube, we should be prevented from raising the level of protection in Kopački rit. Because then that rash, because this proposal is not only premature but impossible. As long as there's a rash on the Danube, the Kopački ass won't be a national park and we won't be able to provide adequate protection to that pearl because of the dikes on the Danube. That's what I don't understand. Second, your quote, say why the Government of Ivica Racana did not propose or SDP suggested this, see the Government of Ivica Racana did a lot of things, including the Zagreb-Split highway and the Nature Protection Act, but look, it didn't have to do everything, but if she had done everything after that then there would be no government, no parliaments, etc., according to that logic, because if you were constantly wondering why we didn't do it in these four years, because if we had done all that you're telling us that we should have done, I don't know what then any policy would have to be extinct after the government of the Ivica Racana. So I don't understand that logic at all. The activity of a political party does not stop when it moves from the parliamentary majority into a parliamentary minority, so it did not stop the political activity of the HDZ when it happened to them, so it will not stop even when it loses power again, normally that you will continue to act politically and propose some laws, and please give yourself an argument that is completely illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34276	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34277	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the ministry, the promoters. Let me refer briefly to the adoption of this Law which would make nature park Kopački rit into a national park, I can say at first that I support this initiative, so I will give a voice for the adoption of this law, with the main argument therefore that this law protects and preserves the exceptional natural values of the Republic of Croatia from further destruction and disappearance, so it is specifically about the area of the current nature park Kopački rit which we have heard today, perhaps only to mention that it is not sufficiently highlighted that it is known in the world frameworks especially for these orientologists, therefore, where the special interest is the birds that nest in colonies that certainly require prominent stock and large crows, and in addition, a large number of endangered species can be found here, such as black storks and eagles. What is most interesting is that in the entire area of Kopački rita, as many as 285 species of birds have been recorded so far, depending on the time of visit to the area of nature park, which is allowed for visitors to see different species of birds, so that this nature park is almost unique and in the world contexts it should be preserved. Another argument for which I support this Law is that this area already has its international importance and meets national and international criteria for the national park declaration. Including vastness, excessive unalteredness, special multiple values and preserved ecological systems, i.e. All that is proposed in the law is therefore also in nature, i.e. We could say that it meets all the conditions laid down under the Nature Protection Act, i.e. According to Article 4 of that Law, they can quote it today. So, according to Article 4. The Nature Protection Act, the national park is a vastly largely unchanged area of exceptional and multiple natural values and includes one or more preserved or slightly modified eco-systems. The present nature park therefore meets all these conditions. The National Park has a scientific, cultural, educational and recreational purpose. All activities are already being carried out in this nature park. In the national park, activities are allowed which do not disrupt the originality of nature. Now, there have already been certain dilemmas and objections which would therefore be avoided by implementing this article. In the national park, activities that do not endanger the originality of nature are allowed, also related to what I said earlier, are prohibited from the economic use of natural goods in the national park. Therefore, if we apply this paragraph of this article, we would solve the problem of hunting activities, and foresters in this national park. Also, tourist recreation activities must be in the role of visiting and viewing that is allowed for all under the same conditions. There I can only repeat that the Kopački rit national park would be the first national park north of Sava, so far there are 8 national parks in Croatia, all so far south of Sava i.e. In the karst area, so that in this way they would get the biggest park in Croatia which would therefore be very attractive with its values. Why am I saying that? Because of this, this was about people staying because of the formation of a national park without a job. On the contrary, I think a lot more people would be employed, in that national park, which would be very useful to Osijek-Baranja County, i.e. To Baranja alone. Here can be an example of Plitvice Lakes, which were visited by 710 thousand guests by 20 October of last year. And in which about 700 people were employed, directly and indirectly even more. I think that if we preserve all the natural values of the future national park, if we offer it to visitors in the way that other national parks in Croatia are doing, I think it would be of great economic benefit to the people of Baranja and the surrounding area, I think, at this point, perhaps even the most important. That is how much I end, I support this Law, with general support and intention to protect all natural values in Croatia at the highest possible level, and also in this context I mention the need to protect the Mura River, i.e. The mouths of the Mura River in the Drava River as one of the few such natural mouths in Europe, which I hope will receive a higher level of protection in the future and be protected from devastation. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34278	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Ledinski, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34279	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a few words about this bill of the National Park Code Kopački rit which, in most of its proposal, refers specifically to the activities of forestry and hunting in this area. Let me say in the introduction that I personally advocate an interdisciplinary approach to the management of protected nature objects. And I think that in the next Nature Protection Act, we should put the management of protected facilities where the basic phenomenon of the forest is entrusted to one master, and not as it is so far the case that we have more masters, and by example to Austria and Germany who have such a way of managing themselves. In the light of the bill's proposal in the section on the consequences of economic activity, the authors of the proposal have written off the activity of forestry and hunting in hairy letters. So they emphasized their view that these activities should be abolished, or removed from that area. However, I would like to warn all of you here colleagues and colleagues that the fundamental and main phenomenon of the area of Kopački rita, i.e. closer to the economic units of Kopačevski, Tikveški and Dragonjevci, Podunavske forest, is the forest. As in the ambience, all the processes and relationships of the living and unlively world in that area are being raised. And the forest, like anywhere in the world, must be given to the management of professional and responsible people who know it. I would like to remind you that there has been a 240-year tradition of organised forestry in Croatia, and the science course itself has been held in the University of Zagreb for over 105 years. The authors of the proposal also argue that the continuation of the current way of management other than direct economic damage will cause and cause damage. The current way of management cannot be regarded as a holding on the principles of sustainability of sustainable development, nor is it in line with the principles of forest certification and the current forest law. Let me say, as an engineer of forestry, that it is constantly managed in the forestry of the Republic of Croatia. For the sake of organised and professional basic forest management in the Republic of Croatia, the forest regulation established under the Forest Law established economic units. For the economic unit every 10 years, a special professional elaborate is developed as the basis for the management of all management measures, the protection of the forest of a particular area. Detailedly for the coming years for another 10 years and predict events for the next 20 years, all the necessary work is planned for 20 years in the long term. The balance sheeting of management rules for all economic units which are 650 in the Republic of Croatia, is done at the level of the economic base for the whole area, i.e. for the entire Republic of Croatia, which is a guarantee of one sustainability of management. The establishment is being reviewed by the Commission and approved by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry with its decision. And for the next 10 years, it is mastered in a way to implement the forest protection measures prescribed by this basic. For the area of Nature Park, the conditions for nature protection issued by the competent ministry are incorporated into the basics of management, and supervision is prescribed and secured through competent inspections. The establishment of Croatian Forest companies has for the first time begun to run a company from the Republic of Croatia in the history of forests. The start of business was given from January 3rd 91s when all 720 former economy workers from Belgrade were taken over. As well as forests and forest land on the right bank of the Danube. Objects, equipment and business that have been under way. The forest and game management as well as the management of Nature Park and the special zoo reserve are normally carried out through our local forest management. Until the temporary occupation in August of 91st. In a peaceful reintegration of 97, the forests retakened 290 workers, organised the work of returnees and continued the work of all activities. Forests are mastered on a permanent economic basis, plotted programmes are implemented for the restoration of devasted forests, a programme for the restoration of war-torn hunting economy, as well as a programme for the restoration of buildings. And access is being made to create new foundations of management. The adoption of the Nature Protection Act in 94 prescribed the obligation to establish public institutions for the management of specially protected parts of nature in the area of the Park founded 97th public institution known as the Park of Nature Kopački rit. Which took over the protection and promotion jobs of Nature Park and a special... reserve. The digging ass that was until then was... Croatian forests, therefore in accordance with the applicable legislation in the same area, are established two public entities, Croatia's forests, which, in accordance with the Forests Act, govern all national forests and forest land and are financed from these own resources and public institutions and Nature Park Kopački rit, in accordance with the Nature Protection Act and the Internal Order Act, carry out the activities of the protection, maintenance and promotion of protected parts of nature. But it's funded from the budget. So on the same surface, we have two entities that exercise public authority in accordance with legal regulations. Nature park Kopački rit and special ZOO reservation are spread on forest economic units Castle, Siget, Tikvečka Podunavske forest and Kopačevska dunavska forest. The part provided for in the bill for the expansion of the economic unit belongs to the economic unit of the Dragon Danube Forest. For the area of Nature Park with World Bank credit, the company Electroprojects developed a management plan for Nature Park Kopački rit. During the discussion in the sectoral study, forestry was confirmed by scientists from the Yastrebar Institute of Forestry that the main phenomenon of Nature Park is Kopački rit forest, as the point of view of all events. Institute scientists have shown forest management through the basis of management in which the conditions of nature protection have been incorporated at all times for the next 40 years it is prescribed that we work on the ground. Data from the proposal for a law on the loss of the activity of forestry, resulting from the difference in the value of the realisation of wood products and the cost of works to ensure the sustainability and sustainability of forest management. Income must be clearly calculated and the benefits of the general benefit of forest functions which are up to 10 times higher than the income from wood cubes. Since the balance sheeting is carried out at the level of the entire company, then it can be spoken of, it cannot be talked about only one segment and the balance sheeting of one particular part, which is also specified by the Law on Forests. Furthermore, Croatian forests in this area also lords with hunting grounds Podunavlje-... through the hunting economic base which was also brought by the restoring ministry. A which are incorporated special conditions of nature protection from the competent ministry in accordance with the law. As is known for the Baranja area, there are five more State-owned hunting grounds where the main species of game deer which are lorded by concessionaries. A bill like this would reduce the meaning of a hunting ground. Under professional management and management of Baranja hunting grounds, a programme has been developed, a war-renewing programme marred the hunting economy for this area, precisely because it is one way to place the top export tourist project, the product of that part, which is the famous Baranjska deer. Croatian forests invested around 104 million kunas in biological works, then in the restoration of equipment and facilities in the area from 97 to 2004. Seven, six million kunas were invested for demining. I must also point out that this is a good example of giving one company only invested in demining, followed by other companies such as Croatian electro-prived and Croatian waters. That way here's... one part of the mined surfaces that are demining there. Same as an example of an act that was demining from its own resources in 1999. This is the area of "Li Bajern" which, after being demined by the means of Croatian forests, was declared a protected area, and until then was not protected. I would also like to compare and connect neighbouring areas in the Republic of Hungary as well as in Serbia, which are also protected. For example, in the Republic of Hungary, there is a national park Drava-Dunav, which is an area of 100,000 hectares, means even bigger than this one, and it normally carries out all the economic activities that I think should ultimately be the goal here. I would also point out that the revenues from the hunting of Croatian forests amount to around 3 million kunas for the area of Baranja, and it is also not the exact information that has been described here by some 60, 70 hunters. Annuals in the Baranja area stay about 600 to 700 hunters who have about 1300, 1500 overnight stays, which is the capacity of Croatian forests from 75 to 100 days, which is very good for the area. And we expect there to be more in the future. And given that time escapes, I would conclude in the end that I support first and foremost another interdisciplinary approach to the management of protected objects of nature with one master and then avoid the duality of all functions, and in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, both in nature protection and in forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34280	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34281	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and it happens that the president of the club is correcting his representative. Well, here's always good for something to happen the first time. A fellow Ledin basic phenomenon in Nature Park Kopački ass is not a forest and be good, so remember that. I'm saying this for the sake of the Croatian public. The main phenomenon is the flood-free area under the direct influence of the waters of the regular floods of the Danube River. It's a fundamental phenomenon. Those who know little about nature protection must know that there is a fundamental phenomenon in every form of protection. Thus, the basic phenomenon in Krka National Park or Plitvice Lakes is a cedar barrier, barriers created under special microbiology and so on. In Kornati, it's a special morphology of karst, karst terrain. And in Baranja, it's a floodous area of the Danube River. I understand that my colleague Ledinsky stands for his forest profession, but there is no need to confuse the concepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34282	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34283	My esteemed club president probably wasn't following. I read what was written in the sectoral study on forestry confirmed by the World Bank. I'd like others to read that too. It says right now that the forest is a phenomenon, and you who haven't read it, and that's how you hurt the Rules of Procedure because I didn't say it, but it's written somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34284	Dear Representative Krunoslav, how? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34285	In the same way, Mr. President, as you've given Mr. Agent Ledinsky the opportunity to correct the allegations under the company's violation of the Rules of Procedure, so will I. What the World Bank documents say about Baranja is, I don't care because there are simply rules of the profession. Here is a basic nature protection profession, and in nature protection there is a concept of a fundamental phenomenon, and in Kopački rit the basic phenomenon is not a forest but a floodous area of the Danube River. And there's the problem, Mr. President, if you'll allow me to tell you why our foresters are getting a little too kick when they're talking about the Kopački ass National Park. There's that kick, but let's kick it. Dirt butt, Dirt butt will eventually become a national park. Sometimes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34286	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34287	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's because of the delay in time one brief review only. So I support the simplest opinion of the Municipality of Bilje, perhaps not only collegially, but also collegially that the status of the nature park of the entire area is sufficient. If needed, a protected area may be increased, which is not at all controversial. This proposal lacks data on the population, how many live in the unprotected area, which they are dealing with. I didn't notice much more detailed data. Then the announcement of a national park would have to stop some activities, and the number of new jobs would certainly be minimal. It's hard to expect a significant increase in the number of tourists and sightings due to the wetland area, we've heard this from Mr. Herman. Not in the boats, I don't think any convoys will be big or regattas. It is therefore not possible to make a significant increase in this way. The proposal doesn't even have a more serious cartographic depiction. We heard he did today, but unfortunately we didn't see him. The end of the work of the Croatian Forests leaves 150 to 200 workers unemployed, and yet it is clear to me that after the announcement of the park, Bilje will be in a rather unfavourable position. Hunting associations, I'm looking at us a little bit. They're not just on the watch over that area, there's something clear and they're shooting, but they're protecting pretty much from poaching. I'm sure there's plenty of poaching. Now it's clearly up to their honesty anyway, is it? So one good control should be here too. Then we heard from the Ministry that after six years, the spatial plan was entirely built and ready for the parliamentary procedure, and it brought together the attitudes of all entities. We also heard that as long as six years went by, that there was a public debate, and this proposal should repeat the whole thing from the beginning. Then the proposed increase from 228 to 335km square covers a large area in the Serbia-Montenegro area, and we no longer, I don't know the promoters probably know we're not in the common state. It is also necessary to develop a professional basis for the withdrawal of borders. Finally, we expect the adoption of the Nature Protection Act as a basis for increased space protection. I think Slavonia will lose more than she gets by accepting the Law of National Park. Namely, Kopački rit is not Plitvice Lakes that tourists will come to visit Kopački rit on the day they can't swim. And the last question is whether the rest of us will be entitled to such a presentation. Let's say one day when I suggest that my community become a city, I can also present a series of colorful images of beautiful ones here. I believe you colleagues will accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34288	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll just concentrate on one. We understand perfectly that on the other side of the Danube is Croatian territory. I'm sorry my colleague didn't listen very closely and even less. I think it's a long way off so he doesn't see a presentation. It is the state border and territory of the Republic of Croatia located on the other side of the Danube. It's a correction to the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34290	Thank you. Replica, replicated representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34291	He says, "It is difficult to expect a significant increase in tourist visitors if the national park is declared." I did not understand whether it is the opinion of the mayor of Bilja municipality or his colleague Markovanovic himself, but certainly for that original finding, for the first time, I hear that the number of visitors is shrinking in some area if the area is declared a national park. It's the other way around. National park is a tourist brand that is far better sold on the tourist market than the nature park. So this is not only incorrect. It's completely illogical. And such craftsmanship not only goes to the detriment of this proposal and to the harm of the population there. It is going to harm the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34292	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34293	Thank you, Mr. President, so I don't think this has convinced me. Namely, if it is such a jewel that the whole of Europe is talking about, there is no reason why the whole of Europe should not already come here to see, look and enjoy. It means I'm just a national park status, I'm not sure it'll attract that much. The presentation can also be good with this status.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34294	Second replica of the esteemed representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34295	In a miraculous way, there was a statement in the assembly that Kopački rit is not Plitvice and that, of course, they should not be a national park. In fact, it's great that the Kopački ass aren't Plitvices and that Slavonia and Baranja just have this space that's just been valorized all over the world. There's one atest that would be said to be so picturesque that even if we didn't know it ourselves, it would give one particularity and visibility. So what his colleague claimed wasn't Plitvice should actually thank him. Because on Plitvices there may be regattas, and here in Kopački rit should be used those advantages that that space has. First of all, scientific research tourism I'll explain to my colleagues what it is, it's impossible now. I'm sorry there's still content that's called modern Wellens, there's eco tourism ethic tourism, of course, and all that includes the local population. This will include Eden Hrvojević, who is invited by Mr Markovanovic, who may be opposed to being a national park. But the citizens certainly do not object and should not be called on to be in favour or against until the referendum is done as understandably as possible. A colleague Markovanovic has shown everything that he is ready for regatta on Plitice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34296	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34297	Thank you, Mr. President, but here's my esteemed colleague, Herman, I didn't say that at all. I only said Plitvice because in Plitice there are a large number of visitors, and here I wanted to say first of all about some great potential or some profit that would have been obtained, clearly from some tickets and the like. I agree absolutely will come and many scientists will come and tourists will come and I hope and believe more and more. And it'll be well organized. I only mentioned it to the regatta because a large number of tourists are demanding and a large number of boats. That's all. If they don't believe there's gonna be some kind of special race. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34298	And the third correction by the esteemed deputy president Mato Arlovic. Replica pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34299	Mr. President, dear colleagues. In fact, the personal one hurt me the way my colleague Markovanovic showed it. I must say, I understand the zeal of the debate and the enthusiasm that once the debate brings. But to talk about the area that represents the most preserved, the most significant floodous area of the Danube River in Central Europe as if a couple of icons had gathered, so these images show up here to present it. It just doesn't make any sense because it humiliates and undoes the value that we have and whose world it gives it seems to be much more important than some of the debaters here. I would like to remind myself that the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is not only giving adequate loans for the resuscitation and preservation of this area, but also grants that are invested in preserving the most valuable forms of nature in such a protected area that has been created by regular annual blueing of yields, application and deposit of sediments and so on and so on. And we should be proud of this area, and we shouldn't be saying that here's the proposings have gathered a few icons to convince us how this law should be passed. Let us be happy to promote the entire studies and pictures and images and if you want to in any way wear the quality image of the Republic of Croatia throughout Europe and the world as one of the most beautiful countries thanks to this pearl of nature in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34300	Thank you. And the replica, the reply to the replica, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34301	Thank you, so I apologize to my esteemed colleague Arlovic if I hurt his feelings. But now he's put my colleague Arlovic back in the dilemma. Is this the most preserved area or the most devastated area, which is why this whole action is actually proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34302	Thank you. The individual debate is over. On behalf of the HSS Club, 5 minutes of debate, Honored Representative Zlatko Tomčić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34303	Thank you very much, Mr. President, in 1994, somewhere in May, I was present and also the patron of a small Posavian village here near Sisak village is called Cigoč by declaring the European village of storks. At the time, I was Minister of Construction, Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Interestingly, since I was present there, I found it interesting to experience the extraordinary joy of those people who had experienced that under the patronage of an international foundation, I no longer remember which one of their villages was declared an international village of gender. They were terribly proud, joyful, and then today here, some 10 years later, there are more generations in that village than people. And today, these very days, people in that village expect with great joy when their families will begin to return, they will again count the young, in the nests on the tops of their chimneys of wooden houses.- Over winter they will cultivate those storks that for various reasons will not be able to go away with broken legs or damaged wings and so on. And in fact nothing has changed in that village they live on the edge of the Lonjsko field which is the Nature Park. They continue to do their jobs, they still love their families as they have loved them before. But there's one big change in that village today, the columns and columns of people, domestic guests, foreign guests. Foreign guests are coming to bring their children to see a white race that is no longer in Europe. She's gone. So they're bringing the kids in to see some kind of natural rarity. Of course, these people sleep over there, eat something, buy a new souvenir because in the last ten years, these people have opened restaurants, dried carps, prepared some of their own posavian specialties. So the level of these people's standards rose. It's an extremely small village I don't know if I have more than 150 people. This detail was needed just to emphasize that I believe that both the Baranians and Slavons love their Kopački ass. I believe that they will also know how to protect him, no matter what you know in every environment, there are those with some particular interests that they like to say, go into the wrong fishing or rapping that deer hunt without permission and so on and so on. There is this everywhere, and there is this in Slavonia, and there is this everywhere in Moslavina. So I believe that these people also love their Kopački ass and I'm sure they would find ways to capitalize the fact and interest of their standard in the interests of their own end, to have a national park and let's not forget so I can't understand this Slavonic masochism. Slavons don't want the National Park. Well, it would be the only national park in Croatia in the Pannonian part and now the Slavons won't. I just can't understand it. ... Please don't interrupt me, you have the right to correct the quote. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I think there are those who rightly said that this debate has gone a little wrong today. I don't think there are, even those who spoke harshly have no malice. But my people need to understand that in this country we need to set priorities for every area. For the area of Baranja if we exclude that part of the working surface and if we concentrate on Kopački butt, for this area Baranja is the possibility of developing some business Kopački ass. Today, national parks don't have just a function of scientific, cultural education and other character, they have a business function. So it's not possible that Slavons don't know how to develop a business in a national park. I just can't believe it. So this phenomenon that was once a burden, which was hard to control. The Danube was working and damage, etc. Today he's under some kind of control, and he can create both existence and business for 200, 300 or 500 or thousands of families. The big story, if you let me have another minute, Mr. President, of a large number of tourists in Kopački rit last year, 17 thousand, you can imagine what a large number that is, so it's not one bus a day, so every little bit of beer swallows that large number of visitors. The zoo can and can receive up to 35,000 a year. And if the national park were to be declared not at 34 thousand acres, but at some 25 or not know how many, it should have 200, 300 thousand visitors to begin with. In this sense, I expect from the Ministry of Culture, from the competent administration that after this debate they realize that good intentions are and that the profession must reconcile these particular interests of the forest profession, the protection professions, the hunting professions and all other professions that conflict there in the interest of the attractiveness of this area and in the interest of better quality life in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34304	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34305	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's what Mr. Tomcic has just encouraged, namely the incorrect assumption that the Slavons are masochists. And there goes the assumption that they're inconclusive about this thing. But I'm simply saying that the exact assumption might be that we should call on the original sentiment, so here I am looking at you, Mr. President Shakespeare, when we mention the original sentiment we gather and wake up that one, or we just wake him up. In addition, there are other reasons for this sentiment that are simply rational and that define then a rational framework. It is precisely a naked fact that this space provides developmental opportunities and if these are truly developmental opportunities then here is Mr. Shacks another request, obligate the Marnoga and the most talented secretary of state to prepare, through one of our conclusions, what we all expect, too, because of our traditional sentiment and all those who belong to Croatian sovereignty because of what is worth using in every sense of the word and in the noblest of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34306	Thank you very much. Proposer. Here you go. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here at this late hour, I would like to thank you for the debate that has lasted as long as hours, which, regardless of what some controversy may have been, was tolerated and extremely interesting. I thank you for the suggestions, remarks, criticisms and praises they could feel. I would apologize on behalf of the promoter for some inaccuracies of the type of underaccurate cards, some additional analysis that could have been done and we are willing to commit to another reading or if this is a previous debate all this is done because we believe that this bill really deserves to be voted in the Croatian Parliament. But in any case, this proposal has fulfilled its function. At least now we know who's representing. I would still be happier if the government had in its opinion, Mr. Antolovic would have been as State Secretary, I must say that I have heard a lot of praise from the former Culture Minister about you, and I think this opinion of the Government, not only did not read Mr. Sanader, neither did Mr. Bishop, and admit you did not read it either. That's why this proposal could have gone, because otherwise, instead of some rough qualifications, this area doesn't deserve to be a national park because it's a changed area by acting on a shell arm or that any economic activity will be suspended, with the error of not knowing the degree of level of certain protected areas, I think the government's argumentary criticism would be welcome to the promoters, and it would certainly be welcome to the parliamentary representatives. Because I have to admit I'm not an expert, a special expert on this area. I've studied in these few months as you probably have all of you either learned about it or you're learning now, so it wouldn't have happened in the debate that Slavonia doesn't deserve to be a national park, or that there will be inconspicuous consequences for the local population and the plant and animal world, because I believe that with a more high-quality view of the government, even if it is more devastating for the promoters to avoid this kind of debate. It probably wouldn't have happened, or that's in favor of this, if all of us were to learn then we wouldn't be talking about a list of international swamps, but it's a list of wet areas of international importance, but it's a good thing it's peripheral. To get back to the point. What were the objectives of the promoter? It's number one protecting the existing eco-system. So far, I have not mentioned the Croatian forests at all, and our intention was not to discuss the Croatian forests, but to discuss the Kopački rit and whether or not to declare it a national park, or if not, because the government said the proposal was premature, when it would mature the conditions for Kopački rit to be declared a national park. Our second goal was to create assumptions from Kopački rit as a national park that Kopački rit becomes the most important or most important tourist destinations in the continental part of Croatia. This north of Sava or west, or east of Zagreb. And I think it must be in the interest of every Slavonic, regardless of whether he lived in Slavonia or once lived in Slavonia and every citizen of Croatia. And our third goal that results from this, that the Republic of Croatia in this way in the European Union, that is, in Europe, will strengthen its international reputation as a country that protects its natural resources. These were simply the objectives of the promoter. There was no political implications in that. At least for ourselves, and I think of my colleagues, my colleague Raven and my colleague Lek, we can say that we are not, that we are not environmentalists ahead of the election because none of us intend to run for local elections in Osijek-Baranja County or Vukovar-Srijem County, all one thing. So it wasn't that interest after all. What remains open and we are ready to talk and consensus is a matter of boundaries. I told you why we went to an increase in the area. It may be naive as someone said, but I really think we should use every argument that we can use when the time comes for a final debate with the neighbouring state about the demarcation in the Danube, and I believe that Croatian territories are also on the left side of the Danube. This Proposal for a Law on the National Park "Kopački rit" is our idea of protecting national interests. We've seen that there are individual particular interests. That's legitimate, and I accept that. But I believe that the Croatian Parliament will nevertheless take care of the priority of these interests and I was happy to hear when the debate on the start of negotiations with the European Union was held, I end it. The opinion, that is, of the president, of the president of the HDZ Club when he said that the HDZ Club would support everything that contributes to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. We also consider this legislative proposal a small contribution to the introduction of European standards in our country. I thank you again for all the debates, and I thank you, Mr. President, for letting us have a little presentation. I hope these pretty pictures didn't hurt anyone, even though it might have been heard, and it was probably awkward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34308	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Honored Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34309	Mr. President, I must correct the incorrect allegations for a simple reason because it is the relations between the two states. A colleague Pancic made a lapus, not the Croatian territory on the left side of the Danube, but the particles owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the territory of another country via the Danube, or on the left side of the Danube.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-17-0.u34310	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow we will continue with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financial Agency, the Mandate-Immunity Commission report, and the Final Proposal of the Law on the Areas of Countys, Cities and Municipalities. The law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of representative bodies has been withdrawn by the government. And the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. We'll probably have the debate with these laws tomorrow and the vote clear at 3 p.m. tomorrow. 7, 8, 9, 10 has been withdrawn and 11. That would be optimal somehow if we were to finish tomorrow before... We wouldn't have made it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't think we can make it. Thank you very much. Resume at 9.30 tomorrow. SECURE Interrupted at 18.55 hours Proposal for a law declaring Kopački butt National Park. First of all, we have a proposal for the conclusion of Mr Zlatko Tomčić, who reads: on the proposal for a law on the declaration of the National Park Kopački rit proposed by representatives Ivica Pančić, Mato Gavran and Josip Leko, a previous debate was held. Please engage. You can vote. The result? I'm saying the lock didn't go off because it got 29 votes, 3 abstentions and 66 against. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the declaration of the National Park Kopački rit proposed by representatives Ivica Pančić, Mato Gavran and Josip Leko for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please engage. You can vote. The result? I find that the proposed conclusion has been accepted by 70 votes for, 7 abstentions and 23 against.
