ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50750	Mr. President. Dear MPs, the proposal of the Law on the supply of blood products discusses the area of transfusion of activities in the Republic of Croatia, partly regulated by the provisions of the Health Protection Act, in the section relating to the conduct of transfusion medicine in the framework of the State Health Institute, as well as the 1999 Regulation on Blood and Blood Ingredients. The world has established standards of quality and safety of human blood and blood components over the years to ensure a high level of protection of human health. To this end, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe of the European Communities adopted a directive in January 2003 setting standards of quality and safety for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and ingredients. In accordance with the provisions of that Directive, this legislative proposal lays down the supply of the population of the Republic of Croatia to blood preparations as a system of measures and activities in the field of planning, collection, production, testing, storage and distribution of blood products. Social care for ensuring effective, quality and safe blood products within the framework and care of the Republic of Croatia plans the need to treat patients with medicinal products produced from human blood promotes the principles of self-sufficiency in the supply of blood products through voluntary and unpaid giving, ensures conditions for edifying the population on the need to collect blood and the purpose of medicines produced from blood, establishing and ensuring the development of a health information system for the area of transfusion medicine in Croatia, ensuring the development of scientific activities in the field of transfusion medicine, and ensuring conditions for the education of healthcare professionals in the field of transfusion medicine. In order to ensure the availability of blood preparations, a network of transfusion activities is imported to ensure equal conditions, i.e. opportunities for the use of healthcare in the field of transfusion medicine, as well as the possibility of accessing blood in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In order to ensure the quality of blood products, the basis for establishing standards for carrying out transfusion activities is given in accordance with the requirements of internationally recognised standards in the field of transfusion medicine and scientific and technical development. In order to monitor adverse events, a system of traceability and labelling of each blood product produced, from the donor to the patient, is introduced and vice versa across the country as expensive procedures and measures that can be unmistakably identified by each individual donor, the dose taken, the blood preparation produced and the patient. In order to ensure the quality and safety of the blood, it is proposed to form a blood donor register and a unique national system of reporting harmful and unexpected events and reactions. The protection of data provided for by this legislative proposal prevents unauthorised access to data obtained in the conduct of the transfusion activity. The proposed solutions are expected to balance work and increase the safety and effectiveness of transfusion treatment, and thus to improve overall health care for patients in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50751	Thank you. The Committee on Legislative, Labour, Social Policy and Health. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50752	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 39th session of the Committee held on 8 November 2005 discussed the proposal of the Law on the supply of blood products submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 13 October 2005. The Committee discussed the proposal as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was submitted by the chair of the applicant. It is doubtless, the Committee members pointed out, that transfusion medicine is a vital segment within the health system, and this bill sets standards of quality and safety for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components. Given that a network of transfusion activities is not currently defined, the introduction of a system of authorised health institutions which are only authorised to deal with transfusion medicine will contribute to more effective quality control in carrying out the process of collecting, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components. The obligation of authorised health institutions to fertilise the traceability and labelling systems of each blood product produced, from the donor to the patient, will allow monitoring of harmful events and the establishment of a blood donor registry will contribute to ensuring the quality and safety of blood and blood products. It's highlighted in the debate. The members of the Committee warned that the Health Protection Act in Article 101 prescribed the conditions, organisation and method of carrying out the transfusion activity by a regulation prescribed by the Minister responsible for Health. Following the above, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Health Protection Act so that this bill does not conflict with it. After a brief discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption the following conclusion. Firstly, a proposal for a Law on the supply of blood products in the text is adopted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And under two, any objections, suggestions and opinions expressed in the debate, the applicant will be provided to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50753	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50754	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a bill on the supply of blood products which certainly deserves our attention because the activity that is regulated by this law means everything related to blood and blood transfusions, so one activity that is one of the first actually transplants, if today we can speak in such an extended concept that began 100 years ago when Karl Lamsteiner in 1900 practically determined blood groups A, B and O. Since then, the development of serious transfusions in Croatia has actually started. She's got her roots and she's right about us without harmful reactions in '23. the year at Peter's hospital, so at the maternity hospital when the husband gave blood to the wife who bled after childbirth. Since then, this has been done in slow motion and medical journal in '38. The year notes that 214 transfusions were made in Croatia until that day. What is important to note is that in Croatia it is '45. established today's Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine. Then it was called the Transfusion Office. But then the blood donation was paid. Until '53. the year when the actual era of voluntary giving begins. It was a famous blood collection at the Sisak Ironworks. The next day is a villa at the Frank Factory, so October 25th and 26th, '53. A year. So, one valuable tradition, one serious work on this problem, on an important segment of health care. It's important because blood transfusions, you know, always save or extend someone's life. Our secretary of state mentioned the current legislation was based on the Health Protection Act since '93. and '95, and when it was '97. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices was then passed on 99th, which regulated this issue. And now we have before us a law that is also based on the European Community's gains, which is also based on the 2003 directive, which is the most about these principles of volunteering, about security, about somehow all those elements that are the standards of algorithms in this activity. It's all stated in the law. What is important is that the network is set up and that this network needs to actually experience one transformation in the future, because the situation of 20 transfusion units in hospitals and the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine as one reference institution is clearly looking for new solutions in terms of narrowing down these authorised institutions which are now also termologically mentioned for the collection and all of those activities, testing, storage, distribution, etc. that it is done in a small number of centres in order to bring the use of blood to European and world standards, because the loss of blood that is taken voluntarily should not happen or happen as little as possible. So this law of ours predicts all this and what I would say to some dilemmas that we as a club will suggest that, by the second reading, the proposer adopts them, the very name of the law on the supply of blood products. He can stand, the experts said that in fact everything was a blood preparation and blood and a blood ingredient etc. However, I think there should still be "blood and blood preparations". Because the European Community directive itself speaks of blood and blood components. So I think that, in this sense, you should consider that until the second reading and the name itself may be corrected, because there are doubts about it. The other thing that I think should be fixed by the second reading, more where it's mentioned what's regulated by the rulebook. For the sake of transparency and clarity of the law itself, it would be good to list in one article everything that is governed by the regulation, to make it easier to comply with the law. And I think that, in the opening part, it would take a little more detailed explanation of the situation that I have just listed in this particular element, about some historical course of transfusion medicine in Croatia, that it should still be recorded in the law because I think it is necessary. In that part of the explanation, it may have been necessary to say more about the objectives of this law, to in some way to know why the law is brought not only to introduce standards, to make it safer, more efficient and more effective and to make any possible reactions at all, so that the concept of consistency mentioned by a fellow secretary of state, that in some ways it gives certainty throughout the course of blood and to give. So that everything is recorded and registered, so without it, this activity will not be well organized. Especially when it comes to education and continuous quality control, it just goes away with each other. I mean, in education and in all the elements that are stated in the law, some respect should be given to Croatian medical chambers because they already have practically that way through their system of points, so it might be a good idea to agree. When it comes to inspection surveillance, it has been placed every two years, regular inspection. I believe for the 20th institution that this may be too long and that this inspection surveillance should be once a year. As well as the entry into force of the regulations, six months seems to me a little too long, because if there are no sublegal acts, then law enforcement is a little questionable. I think it should be reduced to about three months, two to three months, which is common in other laws. Something else that may be missing, and what was probably thought to be solved through the regulations, is not defined as the concept of what the hospital transfusion unit means. That authorized transfusion facility knows what to have, how many personnel, equipment. But the hospital's only mentioned in the dictionary, but it's not broken down. Here are all these remarks I think we should certainly support this law to go into another reading and with respect to all these remarks which will still be shown in the debate, that we can support this law and the HDZ Club supports that this law goes to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50755	Thank you very much. The club of representatives of DC, HSLS, LS, respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50756	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law on the supply of blood products is a document that aligns this area in Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. If the situation in other areas of life in Croatia were, for example, in the transboundary activity, I believe that this would make the course of harmonisation with EU legislation much easier and painless. I dare say that in the countries of the European Union they have something to learn from Croatia in this area and that in some things, especially when it comes to giving, voluntary blood giving should ultimately be coordinated with us and our experiences. Croatia has successes, successful experiences in the supply of blood and blood products through the collection, processing, transport and use during, in difficult circumstances, especially the Homeland War because the circumstances and conditions that we know of our transfused staff have played a high-end game in this respect. Let me be a little bit and personal and bring some experience, first of all, to the Slavonian-Brad hospital for which I have a lot of knowledge of her work in this area, which was one of the largest background hospitals, i.e. with Split, it was a Slavonic-ship hospital, that these employees collected about 13,000 doses of blood, processed and spent all of it in the treatment of patients in Slavon-Brad hospital, primarily wounded defenders. Also wounded and hostile soldiers, which should also be especially emphasized by civilians. I usually say no to some extreme situations. When we get a little closer to looking at this law we see that we have two main components, that it is based primarily on voluntary donors and on the other hand on the profession that all should do as the standards medically require. This law is actually impossible to imagine and it is actually impossible without a blood donor. It is therefore an opportunity to thank all donors who gave their blood from this place so that they could save the lives of Croatian defenders and civilians and other citizens who were killed in the Homeland War. As could be seen from this bill, this law is based on the principles of volunteering, freeness, anonymity and solidarity. Who? First of all, voluntary, exclusively voluntary blood donors. Both this law and blood and blood preparations shall not be imported into the Republic of Croatia, that is to say, it is prohibited to grant or receive any cash compensation, that is to say, Article 26(2). As we know, in other countries blood is traded, blood is paid, and in Croatia it is still on, it is still on our happiness, which makes us specific, it is voluntarily brought and it is on top of the principles of humanism. So we have here on the one hand to comply and regulations above all in the fields of collection, processing, preservation and use with European standards. I believe that we are in that first standard, the human standard far ahead of anything that can serve us all. This law will not make sense unless our people, volunteer blood donors, are no longer respected. Because there's no blood as a cure without a donor, or if there is, so that cure will be, it won't be equal to available to everyone. These days we adopted the budget and we saw what items we adopted for certain activities in society. I don't think everyone's happy with what they're about to get. Is there any point in asking how much, for example, the Republic of Croatia saves through a voluntary blood donor, or how much help do donors themselves, how cheap is the treatment in Croatia? And a few words related to Chapter 3 of this proposed Law on the supply of blood products. First of all, he would mention the information given here in the explanation that Croatia was in 2004, if 156 thousand 705 doses of blood were collected in Croatia and 365 thousand 265 blood products were produced and transfusion units in 20 hospitals and in the Croatian Institute of Transfused Medicine, as I say valuable data. Article 5 provides for a new network of transfusion activities. In fact, we have here an announcement of a centralization. Which means that we are expected to reduce the number of centers where blood would be collected, tested, and produced by blood preparations. This proposal does not specify their number, so that number of new centres. As stated above, it should be specified by the Minister in the Regulation on the Network of Transfusion Activities, which we can now speculate on. After all, we can expect regional and subregional centres. So it's to expect that we might have in 4.5 large Croatian cities, so regional centres and probably so many sub-regional centres. In fact, Article 6 of the criteria for determining the network of transfusion activities sets out 2 criteria. The first criterion will be urbanisation, so the degree of urbanisation of the area. Those with a higher degree of urbanisation should be given that status of regional, or subregional centre. And the second criterion is traffic connection. Those who have better roads, which can be easily reached, should be those who will receive regional or subregional centres. Respecting the legislator as well as the profession here, some of the questions that require an answer are raised, given the objective we have set and which we want to achieve by this bill. First, whether a new network of transfusion activities with blood banks will make blood preparations available and sufficient, i.e. in sufficient amount to treat patients in all hospitals in Croatia. Whose number, I suppose, will remain the same. I hope it doesn't increase, but that's if it's a synchronization, and it's a synchronization. So what is stated in one paragraph is that blood also needs to be made available and sufficient for all. We can simulate the situation, let's say, that Sibenik, will gain subregional status and he will not be able to collect blood under the provisions. But in case he needs to be relying on his regional centre, let's assume it's Split. In case it does not have Split, how, for example, will such a situation be resolved? Furthermore, whether frequent blood shortages will be overcome, for example in summer. Because Croatia is a tourist country and must also take care of this element. Or it'll be an even bigger problem than we actually had right now. Therefore, it could happen that the population will not have equal conditions and opportunities in the use of healthcare in the area of transfusion medicine, which is one of the main objectives of this bill. In fact, all citizens have equal terms. And below 3, how much these proposed changes will affect the work in hospitals whose blood supply will depend on blood banks, from which blood will be bought. First of all, on operational programs, or postponing operations. To increase BO-days, and thus to increase the costs in hospitals that have not had at least such difficulties so far. The changes require additional material investment, it is estimated that 5 million kuna should be provided for the implementation of the proposed Budget Law as mentioned here. Whether it will, in fact, not be clear whether this amount will be spent only on the formation of a single national information system for transfusion activity or on medical technical equipment where necessary. In fact, and another question that should be answered, and that is how much the proposed changes will burden the hospital's budgets that have already been so far, these calculations are, or budgets, insufficient for normal business. Clearly, these are some questions that need to be answered by second reading. In any case, we agree, our club agrees that this bill goes to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50757	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Nikola Ivanis.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50758	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Piploić and I really belong to those who are very reluctant to correct incorrect allegations. I'm only doing this for phonogram correctness. I don't think it's good that in the record, in the phonogram of this session of the Parliament, there is a finding that our transfusion medicine is such that it can teach transfusion medicine to the countries of the European Union, as you explicitly said. I, as a doctor and a clinician, will tell you, we have good transfusion medicine, but that statement of yours is brave. She's actually incorrect. The kidney, liver, pancreas, lungs, hearts, all over Europe, from Padova, across Graz to Edinburgh are such that there is a transfusion medicine that I don't think it's a good thing that this assembly says we should learn from us. With all due respect for the quality of our level we've reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50759	Thank you. Dr Nikola Ivanis, on behalf of the PGS, SBH and MDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50760	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say first of all, on behalf of our club, the Club of Regional Parties that there is no reason not to support the draft law on blood products in the first reading, but in doing so we would immediately support what my colleague Primarius Bacic said, which is that one more thorough and better title of the law would be the Law on Blood and Blood Products. That's what we think, and we think that, hopefully, the proposer will think about it and appreciate it. Of course, we support this bill. If we have cleared up with another previous level, which is that we actually need the Law on Blood and Blood Preparations. When I ask that, I would ask you to make it a little bit more clear in later indications, because I do not understand whether Directive 2002/98 of the European Commission or of the Council of Europe, which prescribes a whole series of professional issues in the area of transfusionology, and that countries should have a law on blood and blood products. Or are the Health Protection Act and the Drug Act, because the blood that is given for the purpose of treatment is the cure, and the blood preparations are an absolute medicine, maybe enough frame to have it. Because we've had a rule that's based on the 987 drug law that was passed in '99, and things have worked out. So, if this recommendation requires a law, then we have nothing to question, even though I say, I think the open question is whether, tomorrow, perhaps, possibly by importance or by possible implications, we're going to pass the Transport and Application Act, for example. Cytostatics, because no matter how delicate the area of blood transfusions and blood preparations is so much with possible complications and significance in terms of possible consequences resulting from administration, no less complications or consequences of administration have the whole area of cytostatic and total chemotherapy, and I say that it may go to that extent tomorrow to that extent, but it's just like a dilemma. As far as transfusiology standards are concerned, it is definitely necessary to raise them all the time. They should be raised at the level of collection through storage to processing standards. Some of the dilemmas that have been discussed earlier, I don't think they're going to stand in practice. We will collect blood still in classrooms and in Delnice, let alone in Sibenik, because the technical possibilities of blood collection are today in this technical sense such as not to narrow down the drainage area, which will continue the tradition of voluntary blood donation that is literally perfectly organized with us, perfectly functioning and necessarily creating a new network that is needed with something else, which is that accreditation at a certain level these centres will not exclude the ability of our lowest level of health care to collect blood. I'm sure of it. I believe that the Secretary of State will say something about why transfusion medicine is needed and why it is necessary to verify and further establish the network and ensure the effectiveness, safety and traceability of knowing who, who and how, among other things, and because of today's title in "Evening List". Look, it's been possible in this country for two years with heart surgery to get HIV infection. For those of us sitting in this House and who are colleagues, it is known that it is possible, therefore absolutely in this professional sense everything proposed in terms of promotion is absolutely necessary, absolutely necessary to support it, by just wanting to say one thing before the end. I think in a whole series of articles, you should respect the Croatian medical chamber's observation that at least for a part of the provision, the opinion of the Croatian medical chamber. I think it is our duty to cover the institution and in this way to affirm, especially because the Croatian Medical Chamber has never acted and does not act with the position of non-compliance of the profession for some other interests, but rather respects and promotes above all, and I think that 5 or 6 articles are given that in the observations of the Chamber should be put in place because we think that this is a relationship which is actually an appropriate relationship with European legislation where the professional institutions and roof associations of the Chamber are actually with the opinion of those who are responsible for the implementation of important areas. Of course I wouldn't be opening the question if at this point when we're discussing this law he might be in college with the Health Protection Act and the Drug Law, because I don't think that each other is coming in the process, because you have that article 101, so you have in the Health Law, so you have in the Law on Medicinal Products of the Regulations. Therefore, by the adoption of the second reading, those two laws need to amend the provisions, and they cannot write in one of these two laws that the transfusion area is regulated by the Regulation, and in the meantime we pass the Law. This is, of course, an absolutely technical question, but that should also be pointed out, and I would like to do the same thing that my colleague Bacic said at the end, and that is that I think that just definitely the number of regulations should be reduced because when a law puts 10 regulations behind it in some parts of it, the essence of which is not good can be changed. There, so much with absolute, with the substantive, principled support of the Law in first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50761	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50762	My colleagues and colleagues. By this law, this bill tries to define a more quality, clearer, modern way of defining an area that in Croatia and so far taking into account the conditions in which medicine works is organised and arranged in a very good way. I agree with my colleague Ivaniš's correction that this is not about such top quality that many of us could learn, many of us might, but many of us also have something to learn, but definitely stressing the existing conditions it is about an activity that is extremely well organized. It has been so far, even though it is about a law that is governed by this area for the first time has not been unsettled. This has already been all said here, a little bit in the laws, more in the rules, but also after this Law some things, professional things, details of which will depend significantly on moving in the quality, organisation and security of reducing the risk of transfusion activity will be arranged by the rules. This Law is de facto uniting the European Union directives governing this area and that is good. It is good not only because we are in the accession process and the intensity of compliance with European Union directives, but precisely because of what has already been said here, which is that these directives regulate standards, raise those standards to the maximum level, and this results in a reduction in the risk that has neither been 100% possible until now, nor will it be possible to eliminate it after the adoption of this Law. 21 institutions that take, or process and benefit, give, prepare blood and blood preparations is quite a large number of institutions, but when little of this is dismembered then it will be seen that the Transfused Medicine Institute and only 3 other institutions are doing two-thirds of the total work. All of these others take or take less than 3,000 doses of blood annually and from that fact, from one such distribution arises problems that transfusion medicine has experienced during this previous period. Insufficient education, insufficient level of quality control, lack of the best network and lack of a single register, which would result in a reduction of risk. These are the most important elements which, by our deep convictions, are regulated in a good and adequate way by this Law, taking into account the European Union Directives. I note once again, and I appeal to the Resolute Ministry that, when making these Regulations, it is important to take into account the opinion of the profession, the experience of the profession, because they are the only ones who can best give these details and these final solutions in Croatia right now, and as far as I know, they are willing to do so. In that direction, the ministry and everyone working to improve this will have our full support and trust. I would also like to highlight this opportunity that all these important areas of education, quality control, a network that implies informing the activity itself will not be possible to improve significantly unless, beyond this law, adequate material support is followed by the one mentioned here, which is 5 million kuna for informing the activity or the introduction of that register, as well as that material support that will ensure the continued education of all those who, to a new extent or reorganisation of the activity itself, will deal with transfusion medicine. Strengthen the proper and professional training and it should be permanent, constantly as is the case here in the law and define at least once a year the necessary education. Quality control also requires modernisation and requires additional investment in equipment. I doubt any special means will be allocated to those needs. It will most likely stand out as part of the overall health care separation, and here I will take this opportunity to warn about the alarming state in the health system, a situation where when it is told truthfully about the actual material dubiosis of the system that those who speak openly or are simply unwanted are then eliminated. I don't know who he's using, I don't know who he's raising or putting down the ratings. It seems to me that it lowers reitting medicine and lowers the ability for patients to obtain adequate quality and available health care. The fact is also that this law that speaks or regulates a great altruism or I would say one great humanity of a large number of people in Croatia and in the world as well as most of these important laws pass quite undetected. It's probably what the expert public is thinking about, politically almost and not taking care of it. This morning we were dealing with indents and actors, show business, one kind of show business, I apologize even though it was about culture, but the way it was discussed here was more like a show than a culture. This afternoon, here's when this is being debated even though many journalists have asked me what's in there, if there's anything there, if there's any blood. I said there's blood but no blood that interests you, no incidents. This law does not say how many people will be infected with the HIV virus, but how many people will be saved from the HIV infection, and they are also entertained at this moment as much as I know red angels, so they are not interested in this step that is trying to take place in Croatia for the benefit of an important activity such as transfusion medicine. We don't have any big ones, we don't have any serious objections to the provisions of this law. We agree with what's been said here. We ask that once again the profession be well consulted in the preparation of the final text of the law as well as the rule that will follow, and the only thing I want to warn about is that I noticed it by reading this law question of the language to which it is written, not in the sense that it is not Croatian enough, but rather some strange sentences which definitely have considerable ambiguity in the text. I think that this is due to a lot of translation from English, so someone forgot about the appropriate sentences, so I think that by the second reading, someone who is professional in this so that the law is written in a clear and simple Croatian language or that these sentences are consistent with the usual Croatian language and speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50763	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50764	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the esteemed representative Antunovic said the state of health is alarming which is not true. I think that the state of health is regular and that the health care money needs more and more now and in the future and that it always should have been, as in us and in other countries, that's true. But it's not good to say that it's alarming to upset the public and the patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50765	Second correction by the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50766	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Antunovic, you said that the debate on the Law on Theatre was all but not professional, it was a show. There's people here this morning. It's a cultural show. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There were some people here who spoke professionally, one culturally, one logically the same way as you are now discussing this proposed wheel just unprofessionally and you have the right to do so. You haven't even shown a bit of expertise, so as those of you who spoke without a profession this morning, you haven't even shown any knowledge about this wheel.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50767	The club of representatives of the HNS, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50768	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I have already expressed my agreement on the European Integration Committee with the fact that this law is very correct in line with Commission Directive 2002/98. and in January 2003 and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe, because one of the Council of Europe's committees has made a number of recommendations in this area. The Croatian People's Party club has no major objections to the bill itself. We are particularly pleased with the fact that the objectives here are clearly highlighted, above all to prevent the transmission of infectious diseases, the other to establish increasingly strict technical standards in the overall process of blood draining to transfusions. Thirdly, to ensure blood monitoring because in this case later on, they will be able to trace the source of the problem and certainly intervene by eliminating these negative phenomena. And fourthly, to provide protection to the donor even greater but now and in terms of clearly his personal health data and also the protection of his health. Regarding these first objectives or preventing the spread of infectious diseases we would like to warn that this medical area is one extremely dynamic and I would say from week to week we have a series of new discoveries so I need to introduce you to the fact that in the last twenty years, thanks to molecular biology we have discovered 130 new infectious diseases. Thirty of them often appear in humans and a hundred of them far more often. One large part of these diseases is transmitted by blood, fortunately not all. Of course, one day these research will probably require stricter standards both in future adjustments and amendments to this law. And that's why I'd like to say that this is one of the laws we expect to have in the House very often. We need to be patient, we need to be correct, we need to build all these scientific innovations on the clear welfare of our citizens who will receive blood or blood derivatives. What Mrs. Antunovic pointed out and colleague Ivanis here this relationship between profession and politics is something we particularly support, so the minister, the minister, we empower to prescribe the conditions regarding space, professional workers, medical and technical equipment but only after the obtained opinion of the competent Chamber, which is good and it certainly needs to be particularly highlighted and supported. Now here's a few suggestions to advance this, this text when it comes to our second reading. First of all, I would agree with Dr. Bačić that it would be good to put the word "blood" in the proper decline. For us medics, nothing is more controversial in this name. However, I think it would be easier and more understandable for others to think of exactly what is meant. I also agree with your proposal to state in the law what the regulation should contain. I could have followed this, but someone who's not a medic will certainly be easier to have in one place a review of everything that's regulated by the Regulation. It is precisely because of frequent changes in standards that we would also warn that Article 12 might limit these licences issued for a maximum period of 5 years for all procedures without exceptions because we have, at least so that some of the procedures will be granted long-term permits. We don't think it's necessary, to limit whether it's 5 years, something shorter or longer, but to make more or less of a transufsiology come under similar supervision. Furthermore, we also have an objection regarding Article 16 where it is said to bring standards on the professional training of transfusiology personnel into line with international, internationally recognised standards in the field of transfusion medicine and scientific and technical development. At least 4-5 questions are immediately asked here by colleagues and colleagues. What if the minister doesn't comply with those standards? What if the Minister agrees with the Regulation and does not provide for the means to introduce these new professional and technical standards? What if the minister does not ensure professional training of personnel necessary if we want to conduct these new diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. And what rights does a citizen have that suffers from the failure to introduce adequate international standards within a certain time limit. So these are questions that remained hanging in the air and surely we should pay attention to them here as well. What I would like to add, and none of us mention, which is the fact that things need to change from October 3rd to this year in this House. So far, we could be satisfied with the fact that we adapt the laws on paper to the European Union. On paper. But how much was our implementation of these standards into our lives? That's the key question. That's why I mentioned those questions earlier. It'll torture us and that's what it is, we'll deal with it more and more from now on. All the less paper and more practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50769	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's giving up. Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50770	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, representatives, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe just a few sentences. I support this proposal, and I think we really do, no matter what this matter has been solved in several laws, that we need this special law. A team more like, and because it has just reported us speaking on behalf of the HNS Club, our colleague who comes from the profession said the number of diseases that are unfortunately not a very large number, but perhaps over time it will be determined that, at this point, there may be an unknown number of diseases that are also transmitted by blood, and which we do not have adequately, we do not have adequately prescribed testing. I also believe that precisely because one law must be transparent, it is addressed to addressees i.e. to all citizens. That's what he's talking about. Thus, the law must be clear in its title, and it is certain that this blood register, not only adjectives, must contain blood preparations in its title. But what's really for condemnation here on this proposal is, and that's kind of what's already been common and it's really escalating. So we get as legislators here on one sheet. The bill has 17 pages, and logically, the explanation is at least double the size. There's less reason. It's the same as if the disposition has 17 pages, and then the explanation is like a dispersion. The other way around. So that's where things got mixed up. I suppose it is in this particular race to make up for it may have been missed in this and legislative activity, but in fact it is also a matter of guilt on the very one that suggests that it compensates for the adoption of such proposals in the way that I am essentially playing our Rules of Procedure. According to this argument, we can practically conclude that there is no explanation here. And later on, perhaps, even when there is a problem in practice, perhaps even an interpretation that I consider to be no example in this Law, but also otherwise, it is certain that all of those materials that preceded the adoption of the law have become quite relevant. And here that is lagging behind because we can freely conclude that there is no adequate explanation. I find this particularly interesting article in 33 which speaks precisely about the promotion of blood and blood components because without these good people, the blood-sacrifice people wouldn't even be dealing with this matter here today. It speaks exactly as the Republic of Croatia together with the Red Cross participates. Perhaps this is the occasion to create certain obligations toward these selfless people who often give their own part, part of their own body, their own blood to help. That's what we know about our Red Cross, which for 10 years has been almost completely old and neglected. Perhaps this is exactly the occasion since blood donation is free, it is one human activity and it should remain but it may be an opportunity for the state not, because it is doing so now, until now only the Red Cross, it is also an opportunity for the state to exactly encourage, to give greater social importance to these people and that it may be able to consider and perhaps even in this Law or to some particular decision to especially reward those people who are blood donors. Maybe it's just something like how the Red Cross itself does it. That's my suggestion, that's until the second reading. I believe that maybe some clues in this direction, and the growing affirmations of such acts of humanity, that they might not just be left to the association, that the state might be actively involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50771	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Kajo Butan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50772	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few months after we discussed the organ transplant law, where it is stated that it does not apply to blood and blood preparations, it is logical that now in our assembly benches came this bill, the law that we have been passing for about 400 years, we are actually harmonising it with the legal property of the European Union after I made the first blood transfusion. The law we passed 82 years after the first blood transfusion was applied in Croatia and the law when more than 13 million blood donors today were not tested on HIV and Hepatitis B and C virus. This mainly refers to developing countries where they say 80% of the blood comes from paid donors and where the percentage of infected donors is high. There are also voices from the World Health Organization that there will be serious blood shortages in the next 2 to 3 decades. It will be caused by a growing number of similar donors and the use of more precise blood testing methods, general ageing of the population and a significant increase in the number of procedures performed with blood compensation. Today, unfortunately, only 30% of the donated blood in the world has been tested for infectious diseases. I agree with all those who have made an objection to the name of the bill itself. For the purposes of Article 2(3), blood preparations shall be defined. Also, Mr. Secretary of State, allow maybe a few objections to the other articles. Article 4 of I propose a new sentence that reads to provide funds for the collection, production, testing, storage and distribution of blood products. In Article 6, the following shall be added: "The network of authorised health institutions must be organised in a way that allows for the exchange of blood products at national level.". Article 17, the period of data storage at the age of 15 put far higher, if not a double number of years, because with today's information technology and data storage, and because of the need for data storage, I think it's a more reasonable time-limit. And in Article 27, add that blood and blood donors can only be adult. I would add only one sentence, except for autologous transfusions. And then there goes the item as it still stands in the text. Here, although blood seems to be "free" today, in alleged signs, security checks carried out over the last 20 years have been gathering significant transfusions. And in this sense, you may also need to think about alternative ways and methods of treating those products that stimulate the production, faster production of blood. And it seems to me that many of us in our health care facilities might follow the example of blood autotransfusion in operations that are only used with us in a private hospital for cardiovascular surgery and cardiology. Its advantage is that the patient receives his own blood during surgery, instead of other people's blood by collecting, purifying, and returning to the body. I agree that the law is neatly written and consistent with the European Union's gains and with all those of whom we can learn very well in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50773	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50774	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. We all know very well what the role and meaning of human blood and blood products in medicine is and that it often means life in the right sense. Transfusion medicine because of its specificity requires the establishment of such standards of quality and safety of human blood and blood products, which will ensure a high level of protection of human health and will prevent the transmission of diseases. To that end, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Community adopted Directive 2002/98EC in January 2003 setting quality and safety standards for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components. The area of transfusion activity in the Republic of Croatia is partly governed by the Health Protection Act, as well as by the '99 Blood and Blood Ingredients Regulation. the year the conditions for carrying out the activities of the study, transport, collection and verification of the quality of blood and blood components are laid down. Then the method of testing and keeping an eye on the studies performed, and the conditions for placing blood and blood components on the market. The law under discussion today seeks to harmonise the practice in the field of transfusion medicine in the Republic of Croatia with the provisions of Directive 2002/98EC. What is crucial is the establishment of a network of transfusion activities. This is regulated by Articles 5 and 6 of this proposal. Only in this way will there be equal conditions, i.e. opportunities for the population to use health care in the area of transfusion medicine. In this way, it will significantly reduce the situation that human life is threatened by the fact that patients at a crucial moment are not able to receive spotless treatment from the transfusion medicine section. In addition, the creation of a network of transfusion activities would provide an equal opportunity to access blood supply throughout the Republic of Croatia. Today we have a situation that only in larger centres, such as Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka can give blood ingredients via separators, while in smaller areas, voluntary blood donors are not enabled. Therefore, it is necessary to develop such a network of transfusion activities that would allow not only uniform availability of transfusion medicine services for therapeutic purposes throughout the Republic of Croatia, but also equal availability to all those who wish to give their blood or blood ingredients. This proposal on several occasions highlights the principle of self-sufficiency with regard to blood supply and blood preparations and stresses that voluntary blood and blood products will be encouraged to do so. Among other things, Article 26 states: "The promotion and organization of giving in the Republic of Croatia are based on the principles of volunteering, freeness, anonymity and solidarity. It is forbidden to give or receive any cash compensation for the blood taken.", finishing the quote. Giving blood to save a person's life or enabling successful treatment is certainly an extraordinary human act. The desire to help someone when they need it most is the basic thought of leadership among all voluntary blood donors. They neither expect nor demand to receive any financial compensation for their act. But they do expect a little confession from society. And here's how for that human act, society and state will repay them. The newest way is that when they come to a health care facility to seek help for themselves, they will have to pay for administrative such that they will have to pay for participation if they have given less than 24 times for women or 36 times for men, and if they judge it according to the latest announcements of the next health reforms by the government and HZZO will remain without it. Furthermore, not only do most employers not approve of the day off to someone who gave blood on that day but they often do not allow work to be left behind so that their employees may engage in a voluntary blood donation campaign organized in their city that day. What do I want to say to these people? I want to say that our country has less and less sensitivity for certain categories of people, so in this case, and for voluntary blood donors. I find that voluntary blood donors are not being taken into account, they are not being stimulated by anything, and that is why it is no wonder that the number of voluntary blood donors is in decline. Another reason for the reduction in the number of blood donors is the creation of certain prejudices resulting from insufficient education on all those issues related to transfusion medicine. This requires access to systematic education of citizens especially through secondary schools in order to ensure the conditions for raising public awareness of the need for blood collection. These activities and educations as well as promotions of blood and blood products should be carried out by the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine and the Croatian Red Cross. In order to monitor adverse events, it is extremely important to establish a system of traceability and labelling of each blood product produced from the donor to the patient and vice versa. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The establishment of such a system will be able to be unmistakably... /The speaker turned off, then re-enabled./... each individual donor, taken dose and patient. It is equally important to form a blood register that is regulated by Articles 31 and 32. The blood donor registry will contribute significantly to ensuring the quality and safety and blood and blood products. Article 24 says that blood and blood preparations should not be exported from the Republic of Croatia, the minister may exceptionally approve this in the event of natural disasters and other emergency situations. It is further stated in Article 24(3) that in this case tests must be provided in accordance with Article 15 of this Act. This is in case of exports of blood and blood products from the Republic of Croatia. It is further stated in Article 25 that blood and blood preparations should not be imported into the Republic of Croatia, again in exceptional cases such as natural disasters and other emergency situations, the minister may authorise imports and then Article 2(2) of Article 25 says that imported blood products must meet the conditions laid down in this law. But from this bill of law that is before us, it is not clear that this will exercise control to determine whether the bound blood preparations meet the conditions laid down in this law. Whether a declaration accompanying the document with each dose of blood or blood preparation will be trusted or control of what we import in accordance with Article 15 will be carried out in authorised institutions of the Republic of Croatia. And at the very end. I think the definition of blood in Article 2 even though I know it's a common name, but to me, it doesn't seem to be the most awkward. When you say blood is full of blood collected from, and I don't add up, somehow it seems to me full of glass, it's full of bottles, so I think it might be better to say the blood is whole blood because when you say something whole then you think of something that's made up of all the components, or of all the parts. I'm saying again, I know that's the definition of "blood is full" of blood normally, but somehow it seems a little awkward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50775	Thank you. And the esteemed representative, Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50776	Thank you, Mr. President. So far, the debate has said everything in fact that this law adopts, the proposal for a law in a positive sense, and some comments have been made to make the second reading even more quality. All these remarks normally I hope the Proposer will respect. I would now in my individual debate just some things perhaps even a little bit more considered. It was a question of this system of traceability, i.e. these registrations by phenomenon. What this law stipulates is that in this register, which will treat both the donor and the institution, there will be an explicit indication that there will also be a register of unfavourable, or unsatisfactory donors, so those risky people who suffer from some infectious diseases. So they will be strictly cared for. They will be reported not to be able to appear anywhere because in any place, therefore, where a medical institution for blood collection will be authorised, their names will be present and in the beginning they will actually be eliminated. It just strengthens this principle of innocuousness, is it, that it is respected to the end, from beginning to end. It's very important to emphasize. What I'd say more, and what I said about the hospital transfusion unit in the club's name. She's not explained enough to me. It states in the law that one of the tasks of the hospital's transfusion unit is to monitor the blood supply. It's not clear from the law whether it's advisory surveillance or if it's an obligation for every hospital to have a transfusiologist. Not every hospital has a transfusiologist right now, is it? So there's a little bit to explain. I also think it is important for the law to explicitly put in place that there must be a reference centre. So we're not going to name him now, but he has to exist just because of some obligations he's going to have, as well as what a colleague has now mentioned who will control imported blood in extraordinary situations. I think it must be just such a reference centre because it will be trained, his laboratory with everything that's done in finding all those side effects possible, transmission of infectious diseases etc. It would therefore be good to refer to the law and the reference centre as an institution that can be variable. Today, one of these authorized health institutions will be, tomorrow the other, but I think it should be pointed out precisely because of this strengthening of security, because who will be in control of it and in fact what counterpart Doric said, all changes must be registered and someone must suggest to the proposing, so to the ministry, the minister to change the rules. I think it's a... a reference center, isn't it? So I think, in that sense, maybe we should still state in the law of that thing what my colleague Bucan mentioned, too, autotransfusion. So it should, in some ways, be registered in the law in that dictionary. Why? Because it's also not mentioned in the term one term. Everything's been processed and the donor, but it's not the recipient. Why do I say "receiver"? The recipient is every one who receives blood when threatened, but he must give consent. However, we have a category of patients that are Jehovah’s Witnesses, and all of us who work in hospitals know what problems they are because they do not receive blood, they will not receive blood. Therefore, and this should be a little bit more even legally, not all be left to the rules or if it is estimated that it can still be done through the rulebook, but in any case it should be kind of accepted as a problem that will occur in institutions where blood is given. Here, with all this being said, I support this Law and I believe that until the second reading it will be fully acceptable and to the benefit of our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50777	Thank you. And final review, Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50778	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you on behalf of the promoter for this discussion that I consider constructive. The more this is one of the laws that certainly did not pay particular attention to the public because it is a law that is more professional. So let me just say a few things in a few words. This Law was also in, therefore, the preparation of this Law absolutely involved in the profession. The most called, meaning experts in the area of transfusiology. So there's no saying that this law has been translated. This Law is adapted to the laws of the European Union, and the Law also makes the same reference when the profession is constantly mentioned and states perhaps not enough and therefore we will consider all remarks in good interest. However, it should be said that Article 8 states that all of this means that everything is closer to the conditions regarding space, professional workers, medical technical equipment, etc., the Minister shall, with the opinion of the competent chamber previously obtained. So, in our proposal, it went like that. What starts to appear, a certain fear, is every time you say the word centralised. The right to inform, any system is actually the centralization of the system, whether we want to admit it or not. Because central data management, and in this case whether it's a reference centre or what the law has already recognized, and it exists in the law not yet revived enough, is the Croatian Institute for Transfused Medicine, which at this point still acts more locally. But it is he who needs to collect information and who needs to process information and who will allow one thing, creating one such network and creating one such information system, you get into another situation, which is responsibility. Responsibility first and first to the donor. Namely, the entire system rests on the donor. So we are the most responsible for the man who selflessly gave his blood, responsible for treating that blood. What brings us such centralised? One such information centralization, I purposely say IT centralization, brings us a system of precisely rational distribution of blood. So there should be no fear that blood can then be used evenly in the space of the entire Republic of Croatia. Already exactly the opposite, it creates an absolute prerequisite that wherever it is needed to be obtained, and where there may be a surplus, that this surplus may be redistributed before the expiry date of the use of the preparation expires. It has been shown that between 8 and 12% are practically saved, I'm not talking in the financial section, I'm talking about blood savings just by informing and centrally informing such a system. There have been many objections, however, because of the public's interest we still have to point out. The existing transfusion activity system in Croatia is certainly good. Why is he good? I'm going to set an example that's listed here in a discussion by the Club of Representatives, and an example that is mentioned today in the media. Well, just that she wasn't getting up, that example isn't something that came out like an affair. This example came out of the system because if there were no quality dose monitoring system, it would not have been registered if such a system had occurred for 2 years. So this system that he registered, which he retested, so the samples that existed before, led to us finding out and reacting at an extraordinary rate. Unfortunately, the side effects will never be resolved, but we can reduce them to the least possible measure. And we believe a bill like this is about to lead to something like that. Therefore, I thank everyone together for this one responsible debate and I believe that along with some small changes we will be able to access the final proposal of the Law very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50779	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law on the supply of blood products. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a law on the supply of blood products is hereby adopted. Any objections and suggestions and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 84 for and 5 abstentions reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50782	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. As Mr. President mentioned, this is about the appointment of a member of the National Council for Science. The National Science Council has 13 members, of which 4 members are scientific advisors from the Institute. These are the meanings of people at the rank of university professors who work at institutes. Then, six regular professors from the university and three members are out of the science and higher education system. It's a public call issued by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, if I'm not mistaken, just a little, April 7th of this year. And there were eight candidates on that call. Of those eight candidates, only one was elected because he was simply a member, one member was missing in the National Council, and this is about Academyman Zvonimir Balletic, who is a professor of politicology. Here, now, if any details are still needed, I don't know if it's necessary to read his résumé, but it's a proposal from the ministry that went to the government, and that's what the government is proposing to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50783	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50784	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I don't think it would be correct to give the Board of Directors 10 hours of debate and give the National Science Council 10 minutes. And that's how it looks to me, though. This is the third time we have the National Council on our benches, for science. For the first time, it was a proposal for a name that, you remember, we didn't agree with. There's been a lot of dissatisfaction. The government withdrew the proposal, we got new names. And with these names, most of us have agreed, and here, because of the sad fact that one of these people died today, we have an addition to the clear composition of the National Science Council. What bothers me is that neither the first nor the second, nor the third time, except that we got a proposal for names and their résumés, great résumés, we got nothing more. I personally believe that the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education are extremely important. They are essentially the holders of a part of the country's development strategy. It would be nice if the minister or his associates told us what they agreed with the council members. What policy are these council members going to determine? Which way will it work? Will scientific criteria be met? Whether priorities will be given to specific scientific areas or others intend to be slightly suppressed as uninteresting, to be financed from the state budget, etc., etc. All the countries of the European Union do so, so we will have to really start talking about it more seriously. So, not just frames, but their tasks, deadlines and results. So I'll do it again. The frames, the assignments, the deadlines, the results. Unfortunately, there is very little in our discussions. Very little. Too little. Look, the law provides that members of the National Science Council should properly represent different fields of science and art, different regions in our Republic and the Croatian economy. It is clear from this that they should, therefore, recognize needs, represent interests, create, participate in the development strategy of the Republic of Croatia, but it seems to me that this is how they work, because they have no choice, their own policy as they know it best and as they can in science. That's not good, there's no coordination. I am not going to talk about the development strategy here because we have never practically had it, neither this government nor any other government has made it clear to us what development strategy is, and I am essentially looking at this development strategy as one domino cube standing upright, on which on the one hand science is leaned, and on the other hand education. Any cube that you touch the system is collapsing, without coordination is collapsing, but what I said in one of my discussions, and I think we all agree that colleagues and colleagues in order to focus on at least some developmental components, that it is certainly the Adriatic orientation of Croatia, tourism, maritimeity, transport, that agriculture is primarily focused on the needs of our citizens, but also on the needs of our tourism. There's no economic development without information, no information technologies, no knowledge of foreign languages. That's probably where we all agree. Now, have you looked at the lives of those sitting in the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education, and the two domino cubes that essentially encourage the development of the country? How many of them can we actually place in one of these areas that we know of and swear to bear the development of our country? You'll see your colleagues and colleagues very little. So, the idea is great about these two councils, the résumés of the brilliant ones sitting inside, and the question of whether that's exactly what I need at this point or the government right now and wants to encourage it? Are those the very profiles of professional personnel? I'm saying that this relationship isn't nearly ideal for what we'd like to achieve. I would certainly like to apologize to Academyman Baltic here for using his candidacy to repeat this again, because he is at least guilty of it and I will support him, but the overall picture must surely be agreed with a specific goal in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50785	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the National Science Council. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. Vote? The result? With 83 votes for and 5 abstentioned academics, Zvonimir Balletic was appointed a member of the National Council for Science.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50788	Honorable MPs. Here is the point of selecting members for the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, a public call was also issued on April 7th of this year and was received by 28 candidates. That body has nine candidates, I could only read you names to see the representation of the profession of the region. These are the meanings of Prof. Julian Dobrinić from Rijeka from the area of natural science and physics, Doctor of Science Zorica Jurković from Osijek from the field of biotechnical sciences and agronomy, dr. Vedran Katavić from Zagreb from the field of biomedical science anatomy, doc. Tonči Matuljić from Zagreb from the field of humanistic sciences of theology, doc. dr. Marko Petrak from Zagreb from the field of social science law, academician Nikša Stančić from Zagreb from the field of humanistic sciences history, prof. Ivana Vegan Đurašević from Zagreb from the area of natural science chemistry, Prof. Vlasta Zanki from Split from the field of technical sciences biomechanics and doc. Daniela Zivković from Zagreb from the field of social sciences of library. Here's a suggestion, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50789	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50790	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The continuation of the same story, the second part of the same, so the provisions of the Act on Scientific Activity... about setting up a board great idea, great provision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, without further awe-inspiring résumés of all proposals, brilliant, but now let's look at it a little bit and ask our colleagues and colleagues what scientific areas they need to cover primarily in the context of which ethical problems will be discussed, what is scientific work and what are Croatian scientists dealing with? So, a scientist investigates, reveals new phenomena that others have not seen, describes them and publishes them. The effectiveness of each scientist can be measured very precisely through his publications, the echoes of his works, or the factor in the citation of magazines in which he publishes his works. There's nothing controversial about it, and I haven't said anything new. Maybe some of you don't care about the details, I agree, but it shouldn't be like that. Namely, if you do only one rough analysis of the Croatian scientific set, you will see that the vast majority of scientific publications are in quality world magazines from which areas? From the field of biomedicine, natural sciences, technical sciences. I'll repeat biomedicine, natural science, technical science. Now let's look at this and I claim at least 95% of all publications quoted in relevant territorial publications that can be monitored by members of the world's scientific community. Now 95%, is that the ratio of experts and scientists we have in this proposal? Not a word, almost the other way around. You have one biomedic, and we all know that a huge part of their job is going to apply to what? On clearly certain ethical problems in clinical research, animal experiments, genetically modified organisms and their impact on health, issue of organ tissue transplantation, blood transfusions, blood preparations, artificial fertilisation, pregnancy discontinuation, new therapeutic procedures and their complications, genetic engineering, etc. These are the classic examples dealing with ethical committees, so especially the bioethical problems today are those that are likely to be dealt with primarily by this Committee. Of course, I have to make some corrections because this Committee is dealing with clearly ethical issues in higher education, so it clearly covers everything, so I am somewhat withdrawing some of the sharp criticism at the expense of this ratio, but I still think that we must look after our colleagues and my colleagues and I suggest that the promoter keep a clear and total number of complaints that are coming to this Committee, and that this Committee will also be treated as a clear composition, because if 90% of the issues are in the field of biomedicine, and I only have 1 out of 9 candidates from that area, he will practically do the whole work of that Committee or almost all work that would certainly not be good. I mean, I'm just going to end this by finding out, and I often repeat it in different places, my doctorate, my publications, my profession is worth nothing, literally nothing if you're going to put me in charge of Third of May Shipyard. That's exactly the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50791	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50792	Mr. President, here's just maybe a little replica of that first part of the respected Mr. Representative. The 12th session of the National Science Council, held on 25.10., adopted a proposal for a long-term and short-term strategy of science and technology. In this regard, we have a series of essentially very high-quality documents on the strategy because for many years, we have never had an implementation plan, and now we have proposed an implementation plan for how to really bring these things to life effectively, so that nine priorities for the long-term strategy are adopted and four priorities for the short-term strategy, which is foreseen by the next five years from 2005 to 2010 and which are health priorities of the first priority, environment, energy, materials and Croatian identity. They're short-term. And in the long run, I'll read it to you now because I don't know them all by heart. But they don't go by the book. Basic research motivated by the acquisition of new knowledge because everything is still going through from these studies. Environmental management, Adriatic, islands, coast, karst, then third priority food, agricultural biotechnology, fourth IT technology and communication, fifth nanoscience and new materials, construction. Six renewable energy sources, seventh health, eight social sciences and all that goes, I don't know exactly now. And the ninth in terms of permanent education and everything that goes with education and social integration. So, I just wanted to say that it's working so that nothing turns out to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50793	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please turn yourself in. To vote. The result? I find that 85 votes for and 3 abstentions are a proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50796	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! The annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 is a regular document produced every year by the State Statistics Institute in cooperation with other holders of official statistics and other relevant institutions involved through statistical advisory committees. The Law on Official Statistics also provided an opinion on the statistical advice adopted by the Annual Implementation Plan. This is our basic document, which each year the Parliament brings to us, according to which my entire statistical system actually works. The second document Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2004 is actually a review of the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for 2004. In principle, all research has been carried out except for some of the exceptions mentioned in that report. The report, of course, was drawn up in cooperation with other holders of official statistics and also provided a positive opinion of the statistical advice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50797	Thank you very much. The committees? Committee on Gender Equality, Honorable Representative of President Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50798	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! At its 30th session, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activity of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 as an interested working body. The Committee had written observations and proposals on that act submitted by the Advocate General for Gender Equality to the Committee. The debate pointed out that the Croatian Parliament adopted a strategy for the development of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2004 to 2012 and the 2004-2007 statistical activity programme, with the adoption of all proposed amendments of the Committee on Gender Equality and related to the presentation of statistics and information by sex. It has been concluded that the amendments to this Committee to the 2005 Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities have been accepted and incorporated. However, the proposal for the 2006 Annual Implementing Plan repeats solutions from previous years, i.e. data collected and shown by sex in 2005 and is not covered in this proposal for 2006. The opinion of the Committee member, according to which the debate on the budget was concluded, was also expressed that the amendments were not acceptable if they had any effect on the items of the budget. In this connection, the applicant's representative indicated that, in essence, due to the technical failure of the service, no data were processed according to the sex in this proposal as it was done in the 2005 Annual Implementation Plan. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with amendments proposed. Mr. President, I wouldn't read them right now, 25 total. I'd just read one common explanation for all 25. In his explanation, he states: "In view of Article 17. Gender equality laws all statistics and information collected, recorded and processed by public authorities, public services and institutions must also be shown by sex. In order to achieve and maintain consistency in showing gender data, gender should be indicated as a variable everywhere where this is not explicitly stated, especially because only certain data are currently expressed according to that principle and up to a certain level of indicators. This is also necessary in order to determine the state and monitoring of the process of gender equality change. Therefore, such data must be provided wherever statistics on the individual are kept so that all the various interested users can easily come up with reasonable and reliable gender-relevant data. Data that are extremely important for gender equality include areas of labour and employment, justice, decision-making in the political, social, economic sphere and education." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50799	Thank you very much. Any other committees? I'm opening a debate. National Minority Representatives' Club, respected representative Shemso Tankovic. He's gone. The club won't talk about it then. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50800	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Director, ladies and gentlemen, the prisoners. So I would say from a brief explanation of Mr. Director here, some MPs may have missed a detailed reading of this special report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. I'm sorry that you didn't highlight it because I think this House of Highs needs to know something about it, and I'll be free to read what your report says, and then I'll comment on it very closely afterwards and which unfortunately will have consequences. I think we'll agree together, not with your most likely guilt because you've had both wishes, effort and will, but you've missed something. Point 4 states: The report on the carried out autumn sowing is on December 15th, and then this is what is said and then it goes on as follows: It relates to the surfaces heated in the autumn seed and gives data on the consumption of mineral fertilisers. Further: No data collected for family farms, which account for almost 80%. Under point 5 of the report on the expected nature of early crops and fruits. No data were collected for family farms. It's almost 90%. Report on the nature of early crops and fruit, the state of August 15th, no data were collected for family farms. The report on the expected nature of the late fruit and vineyard crops did not collect data for family farms. Also, no data were collected on the achieved nature of the late fruit and vineyard crops. The South fruit and olive trees report provides data on the actual production of South fruit and olive trees, data on the number of trees capable of breeding, nature by native tree and the total nature, and data on the production of olive oil from their own production, point, and then on: No data collected for the family holding. It may be this way at first sight and it would not be problematic if we were not in front of something extremely important, and it is called negotiations with the European Union. Unfortunately, all of this is missing, and it's missing by my free judgment because I'm going to be doing an evaluation, so 70% of this data in these segments that I've been talking about is going to be very problematic. We lost one continuity in keeping statistics. I assure you, maybe we missed it, and maybe we didn't. I believe that other colleagues will look back on this, those who negotiate with us from the European Union and the Commission certainly did not promote it, and I assure you that this will cost you dearly because we will have: discontinuity in certain statistics, and God forbid when negotiations will be taken for reference for years and if we take this year for reference, and we do not have statistics very clear how much we produce olive oil or how many olives we will unfortunately be in a very big problem. I honestly believe that, and I read well that for 2006 it will not happen again, that in 2005, it was done in concrete terms. Personally, I find it inadmissible that for that part of the money there could be no sources anywhere if the Ministry of Agriculture and the Water Economy gave a certain portion of the money I believe it was possible to find that part of the money for all those appraisers somewhere else, and I think that would mean more to us, I'm stressing again for our negotiations that would be. For these reasons, of course, we cannot support this report because it is insufficient, it does not include all data, and I fear it will be certainly and very problematic for us in the negotiations if unfortunately this year which has not been so bad has been taken as a reference year, and we have not statistically managed to do the work that was ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50801	Thank you. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Kresimir Cosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50802	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In any event, the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities or activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2004 is extremely important. I also believe our attention deserves the proposal of the annual statistical implementation plan in the Republic of Croatia for 2006. For a number of reasons in each orderly, and especially developed country, statistics play a particularly important role and place. This hour of statistics is also important for the Republic of Croatia because of the fact that chapter 18 of the negotiations on the accession of the European Union is related to statistics. Many did not know that, and many were surprised by this fact. The European Union will pay special attention during the "screening" of our system, which is related to the State Statistics Office. Thus, statistical activity is equated to all problems related to justice, energy, agriculture, industrial policy, science and so on. Statistics are therefore a very important activity that we are very often unable to identify and hardly have any public media attention. That's not good. Why? Because professional and responsible statistics provide the best and most objective, the most objective picture of the possibilities of each country, its weaknesses, demographic potential, economic potential, economic potential, and so on. The relevant statistical analyses also allow for a very reliable view of where a country is going in terms of its economic development, which are its long-term potential, which is the level of its competitiveness and so on. A good, quality, aggregate statistical analysis for us at this time is extremely important for us to understand all the problems that the Republic of Croatia is facing today in a better, more reliable and comprehensive way. The objective and transparent statistics therefore need to be reduced and minimised by the flat-rate and irresponsible assessments that today are unfortunately our reality. The creation of a culture of objective information stems from understanding the structure of statistical data, their credibility and their importance. About demographic potentials, growth in gross national income, employment, education and many other areas. One simple example, I believe that you will agree that one good, quality statistics of everything we do in the Croatian Parliament, everything we discuss and the measures that we pay attention to in different topics would allow us to understand and to have a more comprehensive and deeper insight into our work, certainly and therefore could and should improve the work of every system that cares about statistics. So again, I'm stressing statistics is very important. The report from the State Statistics Institute stressed that the harmonisation of Croatian statistics was continued in 2004 in line with European Union standards. These are very serious, complex, challenging demands. It particularly insists on the quality and reliability of statistical data, and I think what has been done recently and deserves proper attention is related to the availability of information from the State Statistics Institute on your website. The value of statistical data, credibility and improvement of the quality of statistics is certainly a job that requires further efforts. I would like to point out and this is in your report, that the State Statistics Institute was on 31 December 2004, 365 employees indefinitely. Unfortunately, the information you provided has no information on the structure of the employees, their education, how much and to what extent the research work of the State Statistics Institute is represented. I will later say something about why and to what extent it is important I am the research work that needs to improve the opportunities of our statistics. For the purposes of defining the annual implementation plans in your report, you said that statistical advisory committees were established for 15 different statistical areas, and in any case an important and good organisational form of improving the work of the State Statistics Office, as an institution that has a limited number of employees and which has a limited number of experts and to ensure as wide expertise as possible. Each one of them is important for the involvement of experts from other institutions. Official statistics must be based on principles of relevance, impartiality, must be reliable, must be transparent, must be timely, because very often it is the basis for a series of key strategic decisions at country level. Professional independence, rationality, consistency, etc., all of these are important indicators showing the quality of work of the State Statistics Office of the Republic of Croatia and all of these performances in the negotiations process with the European Union will pay special attention. The statistical standards of the European Union must be respected. They are very demanding, they are very complex and should certainly be noted and pointed out that the European Union is among other things giving special attention to the statistical research programme. So statistical research and all these efforts are mandatory for all members, and candidates are also expected to meet those high standards. It is not too much to note that the United Nations also has a very demanding statistical research programme and unfortunately in many of the United Nations statistics on the Republic of Croatia there are empty columns. These empty columns in some way point to the possibility or inability of our National Statistics Service and indicate to what extent these important activities are given attention. One important area that I think is particularly up-to-date and deserves our attention is about research and development and education statistics, because today we are increasingly talking about Croatia based on knowledge. It is an important segment and it is a segment which will also be carefully considered by the European Union. The reports you submit provide statistical reports that will refer to the structure of our higher schools, their organisation, types of studies, departments, groups, directions, methods of study, etc. It is very important to have quality, good and reliable statistics, but more important to know well, to read these statistical reports in quality, and to make appropriate decisions on the basis of them. Where's our high school system going? whether we educate engineers to a good degree, all those who are important to production professions, or today our students are showing increasing interest and interest in those studies that are simpler and easier. I said here the other day, in India, he's currently educated or graduated four hundred engineers on over 2,000 of their colleges, which are on average very high-quality, I would say excellent. In the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately this is not the case and we are already able to see some of the weaknesses or problems we will have in Croatia in the long term in the coming years. Characteristics of undergraduate studies, the character of postgraduate studies, what is the quality of these postgraduate studies, what is the quality of our masters? To what extent are post-graduate studies that were related earlier in the so-called “Students. ” High-tech technology technology? What is the quality of our doctoral studies and what is the quality of our doctors? Unfortunately, if a quality statistic were made, then it would prove that many of those who had doctored were not before their doctorate, nor after, published a relevant scientific paper. Statistics are very important and high and on page 25 of your report, in the section relating to research and development among other things said the following and I want to quote it. "In 2004, expert literature was studied, and operational work was due to follow up immediately after the start of co-operation with Slovenia. A visit to the Slovenian Statistical Office during 2004 was postponed 3 times, and the cooperation agreement between our two institutions was signed only on 8 December. In 2004, it passed, and the start of only serious work should begin in 2005. Some new commitments will be imposed on us by the European Union in the work programme for 2006. Budgetary allocations for research and development, statistics and innovation are very important and for 10 years the European Union has given special attention to innovation as the strength to increase the competitiveness of the European economy. In the context of this statistics that will need to begin to work and the quality of this statistics depends not only on the State Statistics Institute, its experts who have to pass the appropriate education, but depends on all those who have to prepare statistics, because sometimes preparing quality and reliable statistics is not trivial or simple and will have to be trained in a whole series of these companies. Because the European Union is very interested in the extent to which innovation firms are present in our own, especially medium and small enterprises. To what extent innovation is financed and supported, which is the intensity of innovation work and to what extent innovations are even related to what is called research. Because innovation must not necessarily be the result of scientific or research but may result from certain changes in certain technological processes, procedures, etc. Thus, it is evident from all of this that statistics represent one important activity of the Republic of Croatia and that the State Statistics Institute plays a special important role, a place, but I would say responsibility. The European Union has already published a whole range of different reports and studies that should make it possible to better understand all those activities related to innovation, innovation processes and the analysis that innovation has on the economy of increasing competitiveness, employment, faster economic growth, exports, etc. Finally, the HDZ Club supports these reports but certainly expects us to have concrete indicators by year to which the statistical activity of the State Statistics Office in these areas has been improved and for which the European Union will have a special interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50803	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go. You're giving up? Thank you. Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go. On behalf of the club? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with everything that the HDZ Club has made and all the remarks you have made on this report and all the tasks in the future. I would just look back at one part that I know very well and doing applications for general medicine offices I've seen all those reports that are needed by the Department of Public Health and all that, all the statistics performed by public health, and among other things, the Institute of Public Health doesn't collect information about domestic violence and domestic violence... the husband of the wife, the children and nobody ever reported to anyone because we know that all these cases of violence in the family don't come before the court and that most of it ends up mostly women, because women are mostly abused to report to the court and the police and it ends up going to the doctor, heal the wounds and go home. That's why I'd like it if in the next reports and the statistics started to collect, because we know that we have no idea how many such cases are because they're all mostly lost we have in the State's Attorney's office's report that it's a growing number of these cases, but these are just cases where there's some kind of trial and where someone's being tried for something. So I would pray that in the future if you would do something and in all future reports there would be reports of domestic violence, which I think is the only way in which we know what evil is, that is the only way we can fight it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50805	Thank you. Does the principal want it to be final? Director of the State Statistics Office Darko Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50806	Here, very briefly. As regards the amendments, it is partly true that they were for 2005, a lot of them were not, in principle they are all acceptable except for Amendment 22, it is from HZMO. They don't have the resources to...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50807	Tomorrow we declare the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50808	Okay. As far as agricultural research is concerned, this is a report of a done and unexecuted, so I don't know why they wouldn't accept it when you yourself confirmed that it was. I'm glad that statistics have drawn attention, I'd just like to point out that in the statistics negotiations it's not just chapter 18 through, I don't know if there are any chapters in which there will be no statistical data and we will try to cover it all up and continue harmonisation. If we've gone one step at a time by now, we should take two steps in one year. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50809	Thank you. We have two corrections. Mr. Bozidar Pankretić, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50810	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't get it right, and I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that I would have to support something, even though I said something exactly. I don't understand what the problem is. Maybe we didn't get along well. But I must tell you, supported or not by this, unfortunately this has bad consequences for agriculture and you are aware of it and it is a failure, so it would be at least correct that at first we all found it together and said there wasn't enough money, we couldn't do it, so then here we are in one situation, God forbid that the European Union, as Cosic also said, won't be exactly what we're going to be looking for, we'll be able to do it in a simple way, bazaar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50811	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50812	Mr. Vice-President, I cannot accept it as an exact allegation that regarding Amendment 22, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office has no resources, and that the Office of State Statistics, the State Statistics Office, could accept this amendment. This is about the fact that half-yearly and annual reports on pension rights users are being carried out, and only this amendment requires that "the state and movement of the number of pensioners" add the words "to the sex". If this means that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute should add another column in its data, I really don't see any reason not to have the resources to add that one column.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50813	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the 10th and 11th points.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50814	Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Gender Equality. I would ask that the proposaler's representative, Darko Jukic, Director of the State Statistics Institute, be made known and made clear on the amendments of the Committee on Gender Equality. There are 25 amendments. They're all about one thing, aren't they? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50815	All amendments of these 25 but one can be accepted, could not accept Amendment 22 because such data are, such data can already be found in various other HZMO surveys and their records, and here this would require additional resources that HZMO currently does not have.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50816	Thank you. The amendments therefore become an integral part of the conclusion, except for amendments 22 that have been adopted. As regards Amendment 22, President of the Committee, Goradana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50817	Thank you, Mr. President. I cannot accept such an explanation, since you have now actually said that there are such data in different as you have said research-like carried out by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, I do not see any reason then that those data that exist are included in this research plan, i.e. to be collected and delivered, i.e. how the method already goes, to the State Statistics Office. I really don't see it, considering everything else, even one part that... The data that is usually obtained from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, I would really ask that this amendment be accepted, because I think it is very important because it refers to half-yearly and annual reports on users' rights in pension insurance which speaks about the state and movement of the number of pension beneficiaries. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] I really do not see any limiting factor that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute does not deliver these data by sex. I kindly ask the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50818	Thank you very much. So 24 of the 25 amendments have been accepted and become an integral part of the conclusion of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities. We must vote on the 22nd amendment of the Committee on Gender Equality. Please engage. We can vote. The result? 20 for, five abstentions, 61 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the draft plan. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 72 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and one against the adoption of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities, together with these 24 accepted amendments which form an integral part of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50839	And we move to - Report on the implementation of the national strategy for the prevention of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2004 as well as on the 13th point - Proposal for a national strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2006-2012, I propose that these two points be discussed in one debate. I don't think there's any, that's what we agree on. You received the materials by mail, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia must have delivered its report or what is thought to have been delivered here by the Government. The government delivered both. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Family for Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received reports from the working bodies at the session. Do the proposing representatives want to further explain the reports? Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50840	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. You've got written materials, but let's just briefly show some parts of the action plan in suppressing intoxicating drugs. Thus, in the part of the suppression and prevention plan for public health addiction treatment, the first makes the integration of a complete public health system so that by the end of 2004, 18 counties integrated existing centres into the Public Health Office or established services. The Croatian Institute of Public Health developed a proposal for team composition, defined a specific number of teams for each county, established work content, financial structure and proposed a funding model based on funding from the level of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance from the level of county and state budgets as well as... funds and donations. The Croatian Public Health Office in collaboration with the Government Office of the Republic of Croatia for the control of the abuse of intoxicating drugs has distributed a computer with software to all the county public health institutions in order to bring data together more effectively in the addiction register. The Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, according to the law, placed the position in the State budget for 2005 on financing activities to prevent treatment of addiction in public health institutions. In part of the education programme, it must be stated that in cooperation with the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Office for Health, Labour and Social Care of the City of Zagreb, education of selected doctors in primary health care has been carried out. This programme is being implemented throughout the country. In part of the damage reduction programme we have a replacement of needles and syringes in collaboration with the Croatian Red Cross, Associations "Let", "Tera" and "Help" in Zagreb, Split, Zadar, Rijeka and Pula, and the agreement is under way for Dubrovnik. During 2004, more than 110,000 needles and 56,000 syringes were collected. By the end of 2005, an increase in the range of intravenous users of intoxicating drugs to a total of 2 thousand 300 people as well as an increase in the number of locations where needle and syringe replacements are regularly conducted. A fully voluntary, anonymous and free testing of HlV, B and C Hepatitis has been carried out in collaboration with the Public Health Institute in Rijeka and Split and the Croatian Institute of Public Health, and it is foreseen to open new centres in Zadar and Osijek. The Croatian Institute also started with a pilot program of anonymous and free counselling and testing in prison at a location in Zagreb. In 2004, therefore, there was a total of 5 thousand 768 people, 4000 149 of whom are heroin addicts. For the first time, there were a thousand 619 and new addicts 732. The number of dead addicts in 2004 crossed the 100 and is 108. In this regard and according to the report, therefore, which is in front of you and here is the united and national programme for the prevention of drug abuse strategies for 2006 to 2012 let us say just a few words that were done in 2005. Therefore, on the basis of the applicable national prevention and suppression strategy, it was worked to increase the network of hospital and non-patient treatment. According to the Health Protection Act and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Act, the system for prevention of addiction and non-patient treatment becomes part of the Public Health Institute system. According to the Law, the ministry has co-financed the work of these centres since 2004 and throughout 2005 with the local community. In 2005, for the first time, he contracted the financing of the special programme of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute with the financing of the centre's 4 million kuna work programme. Other funds up to an estimated amount of $12.3 million were provided by the Ministry of Health. In this way, according to the Law, the State has provided the means for the functioning of the existing system of treatment prevention of addiction. A voluntary and anonymous testing has also been launched in the framework of the AIDS enlargement prevention programme at the other locations mentioned earlier. Clinical guidelines have been developed for the implementation of the methadone pharmatherapy treatment published on the Ministry’s website and will be printed in the form of a brochure for doctors participating in methadone treatment after the presentation of the Government’s commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50841	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. ... Yeah? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the Labour Committee, please. Vice President Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50842	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 42nd meeting of the Committee held on 28 November 2005 discussed the report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2004 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 22 September 2005. The Committee discussed the report as a home working body, in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the opening statement of the motion's representatives, it was unanimously decided to hold a pool of discussions on the report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2004 and the proposal for a national strategy to combat the abuse of intoxicating others in the Republic of Croatia for 2006 to 2012. Before the start of the debate, all the present members of the Committee expressed satisfaction with the quality of the Report, as they pointed out from a very broad, professionally elaborated and transparent report, it is clear what has been done and to what extent has been done in accordance with the current Strategy and Action Plan, as well as the final review under each chapter with the proposal for measures for the unfinished part of the commitments. An extensive debate that followed saw that in addition to all the business activities still cannot be said that the fight against drug abuse is successful. This also shows the fact that the Republic of Croatia is, according to the latest international research for 2003, following a trend in the prevalence of drug use among younger European countries with rising trends. Since the family is the first educational factor in the development of a young person, it is essential to pay particular attention to the empowerment of the family in the parenting and educational role and to strengthen quality relations among family members. To encourage the reduction of drug demand in children and young people, it is necessary to take measures that contribute to the development of healthy lifestyles, the development of amateur sports, the inclusion of the wider range of young people in it, the opening of various youth clubs that provide them with the opportunity to spend quality free time and so on. In addition, in the opinion of the Committee members and repressive measures, they should be strengthened in order to have a preventive and educational impact. In the opinion of the Committee members, one of the necessary measures is to improve the hospital system of treatment. This means conducting a systematic education on the addictions of doctors and psychiatrists, primary health care doctors, equipment of health institutions with sufficient hospital beds and the opening of new detox units. Since the current data collection system does not guarantee their reliability and usability, it is necessary to create a standardised form and to assign to each healthcare institution a particular person who would keep records of the number of addicts or fill out a form. The Centers for the Prevention of Dependence in Countys are doing well, the opinion is members of the Committee, but given their content of the work on uniting healthcare, social protection and education activities, they lack different profiles of experts. As pointed out, the treatment communities play a significant role in caring for addicts, in the field of rehabilitation, in resociation, but also in preventive work. However, because of the unresolved legal position of the therapeutic communities, monitoring the number of addicts in their treatment has been difficult, as well as an assessment of the effectiveness of individual community programmes. In activities related to the treatment of drug addicts in the penal system, it is necessary to enable persons who are given parole, to refer to the therapeutic community. In addition, in the case of perpetrators of criminal offences referred to in Article 173. The penal law should provide for the possibility of replacing the prison sentence with rehabilitation in the therapeutic community. After the debate, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption of the next conclusion. A report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted in 2004. The Committee members also unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the following conclusions. Under one, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to deliver within 60 days to the Croatian Assembly the Proposal for a Law on Therapy Communities. Under two, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to provide guidelines for the pharmacotherapy of heroin addicts with methadone within 30 days. Pharmacotherapy, I'm sorry. Under three, the Committee considers it necessary to strengthen the status of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to transform it into a central office with appropriate powers and responsibilities in order to create and implement a national drug abuse policy more effectively. It also concluded that the proposal for a national strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2006 to 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50843	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of PGS, SBH and MDS, Mr. Representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, speaking on behalf of the PGS Club, the SBH, I must say that as a member of the Health Committee and we, as a club, support the overall conclusions of the Health Committee because we believe that they are correct at professional level and have seen the overall problem, but in order to give our contribution we will probably discuss and repeat some things so let us say first and foremost that we evaluate the report as quality and professionally, quite realistic and that we think that it is well-responsored with what needs to be said in relation to both the strategy and the action plan. Drugs, of course, are a terrible problem, this monster of the modern age, is also a monster of Croatian society, but I would say, as someone who has never been an on-call optimist and is not inclined to think this way, and I have been a participant in the debate on drug issues since 1995 in this House as an agent today compared to '95, '97. Or '99. It is important to discuss the problem of drugs, i.e. the whole developed system of drug abuse in Croatian society for a very simple reason. This system has taken steps forward, of course it has not solved the problem, the problem of drug suppression cannot be solved so that it can be put the point on and, regardless of this information that a certain increase in us remains addicts, that the increase of those who have been treated in 2004 and with these 108 dead I think it can be said that both the strategy and the action plan and the measures that have been implemented has given certain results over a certain period of recent years. I would particularly consider it important to point out that I think that the moment when this Parliament decided to put the county centres in the Public Health Office has taken an important step forward and I think that one of the reasons why the county centres are gradually doing better and that they have found themselves in the right place where in some way the least we still feel the lack of professional staff present, the most different profile than I don't know the educator, psychologists to doctors, to kindergarten educators, etc. As for what we think about in the future, where we should put an accent in the overall commitment of the Croatian Drug Prevention Society, we absolutely hold that we are in the phase, since we are increasing the number of drug addicts, all of these synthetics, etc., we think that the hospital part of the treatment of addicts must win on the significance, so we need to focus on increasing the number of psychologists and doctors, psychiatrists and, of course, the number of beds, so in these detox units whatever we want to call them. I think it's something that's serious and necessary. One thing needs to be solved very simply and quickly by giving a warrant, we can't have guidelines for... And we can't have cases like this different, so as one of us had in the river to import and treat different negative phenomena, sometimes we don't even have to quote to the end for the reason that there's no big use of it, I think we know what I'm talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that what the Committee is, but what everyone in this debate is likely to say, we have this kind of charm of the therapeutic communities, the status of theirs, the way of funding, the methods we can't have. The society simply has to do this somewhere in terms of increasing social usefulness and therefore the requirement is and this House should support the requirement that within a reasonable period of time the Law on Therapy Communities be drawn up, and the real treatment of total addicts does not exist without therapeutic communities, part and convicted must end up in therapeutic communities instead of in prisons, but we must have a single legal framework. It must be liberal enough, wide enough for different methods to be applied in these therapeutic communities, but one common denominator must be not know in the therapeutic communities and civil society associations to those who will establish maybe municipalities and cities themselves, to church therapeutic communities or to whom, something must be a common denominator and I think we absolutely need this legal framework. We recently discussed social issues in this House, and then there was talk about family centers. I think we should give guidance on the mandatory cooperation of family centres that are now created by detachment from the overall Centre for Social Work with county addiction centres for a simple reason why part of the activities of the Family Centres in the area of solving part of the social problem must be directed to give us results and that young people through this work in these risky families that will benefit from the services of the Family Centers become more immune to the monster drug. I think that's necessary, and I say, otherwise I absolutely think there's been significant progress in the work of these centers. As for the repression, the repression in this problem cannot be talked about, I think significant progress has also been made in this area. I remember the debate when we are about to control whether someone is under the influence of intoxicating drugs in the event of some extreme traffic situations or some risk groups in this House used to talk about something that we hope will come into the future and there are certain steps made and I think that this repression must exist, that it is unfortunately not only important but also necessary, it must be serious, organised and just, but we think that its part should be directed in the direction that, after the first results of the repressive measures, part of those who will be persecuted and criminally still when the conditions are created is directed towards the therapeutic communities and therefore, the strengthening of that common association of therapeutic communities is very important. At the end, we would absolutely like to say just one more thing, which is that, in this way, in some way speaking positively and on the part of the results that have been achieved, we do not think at all of the importance of the problem, we realize that we belong to countries where there is still an increase in addicts, an increase in the treated, an increase in the dead. It is clear to us that we are growing synthetic of these most dangerous drugs in use and for this reason such attention and care as has been given in our society for the last years, it is absolutely necessary to continue and therefore should indeed accept the proposal to seriously strengthen the position, status, and powers and all that goes with it to the Office for the Prevention of Intoxication of Drug Abuse and it is a good idea to call it the Central and to place it in a certain way as a roof compared to other parts of the system. That's the PGS Club's position, SBHS, MDS on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50845	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50846	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to the 2003 and 2004 reports, we will accept this report because it is quite well prepared, published and clear. However, when it comes to the proposal of the National Strategy, then it might be good for the applicant to either withdraw the proposal or intervene urgently. In fact, there have obviously been some problems, and I am sure that this has nothing to do with any addiction, because in the first part of the strategy offered to talk about the bodies, measures and procedures and tasks, we accept the proposal, although I am sorry that this strategy is leaving cooperation with local self-government. But there is a problem when there is a review of the necessary financial resources for its implementation. In fact, this proposal for a strategy clearly states that the next year for its implementation requires the provision of 66 million and 302 thousand kuna in the next 2006, 11 million 700 of which would be secured from gambling and a million kuna would be a donation from the global fund. This means that the burden of the budget should go to about 53 million kuna. By 2012, by the time the projection was made, this realisation strategy required about 400 million kuna. This proposal for a strategy was sent to us by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I suppose, on the proposal of the office and that's fine. But it's not good that we voted on a state budget in which, in my account, and if I was able to find all the items in the vaults, exactly 9.5% of the planned funds were secured. The strategy envisions, among other things, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the following year has 50,000, Ministry of Defence 390, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship 55, Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity 2.5 million, Justice 367 thousand plus 4 million 800, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports million, Internal Affairs 30 million, Customs 2 million, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare 18 million 426 and Office for the Prevention of Intoxication of Drug Intoxication, which includes both material costs and means of transfer, which helps local centres I assume with 6 million 714 thousand. I know from the experience gained during the establishment and operation of the Center for Prevention of Dependence in Čakovec that these funds are objective in relation to the needs of those state bodies, resistors, ministries, especially when it comes to penitentiary penitentiary facilities and especially in that part of the implementation of the strategy that is being discussed on the reduction of supply. And the downsizing of offers other than customs police is the most important role. And for that reason, I was pleased to see here a proposal with 30 million kunas because I know that drug departments in terms of technical equipment are greatly lagging behind the technical equipment of those who offer in Croatia. So if, by adopting the budget for next year, we refuse to provide the funds required to implement this strategy by adopting it, we will not allow it to be implemented. And that's why I don't see the need to adopt her at all. I don't think the difference between funds could provide donations. Perhaps another international institution or government may help Croatia in this area but I do not believe that donations could be so large that we can secure these funds. And I want to assure you that without the technical assistance's financial resources, there's nothing we can do. We can train teachers to work with children in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools. We can also work at parental meetings with parents with super-skilled experts working with them. We can also increase hospital capacity. We can develop and increase the number of treatment communities but it's only in the prevention of a fifth of what we're talking about. I hope that the rule still applies to this evil called addiction and drug and counselling and all preventive bodies, and even repressive ones, can locate approximately every fifth individual who has this problem, every fifth. So if we want to convert these numbers of the white zone that were recorded last year into a real state view then we have to multiply them by five. And it is true that the introduction of the strategy quotes "Drug addiction is closely linked to other social problems such as poverty, unemployment, prostitution, delinquency, crime, homelessness and others. When these evils enter one society, this evil is the consequence of these evils before. The more unemployed, the poor, the homeless, the prostitution, the poor, the more we'll have this problem. And here's the claim. Money turned to drug crime can play a significant role in the economic situation. That's right. However, this money that turns into drug crime can have a significant impact on both the functioning of the rule of law and on the repression and sanctions and from all the way to the end, if we understand what I'm talking about. If I read well that 5 thousand 768 people were included in the treatment system last year, which is about 129 people per 100,000 people, that the new treatment-containing is a thousand 619, of which 732 were on heroin. So more than half on heavy drugs, not easy. Then I'd like to quote that someone doesn't catch me and that 20 thousand 162 addicts are registered in the drug tracking register at the end of 2004. There are no temporary and occasional consumptions included, weekend consummations that are not treated by addicts because fortunately they are not yet addicts. Then that first sentence money at some market prices is next. If 20 thousand addicts in Croatia are half on easy and half on heavy drugs and if that's what we discovered then it's an annual turnover of 4 billion and 350 million kuna. With 50 kuna per day at easy and modestly 200 kuna in heavy drugs. I don't know if there's been a major price change in the last month, two, three, but that's about a bill, 4 billion 350 million kunas a year, turning the drug mob into this data. And they're right to suggest that they warn that money from that mile can endanger economic flows, and I'm adding the legal system of this country. It's money nobody pays a profit tax or a value added tax but it's in Croatia. And we in the fight against them should go with 66 million as planned and we secured a tenth of that with 6, 7, 8 million without counting the office for which the funds were secured as planned. So we can't fight this 66 million against this 4 billion and 350 million. We can't because as much money as we invest in prevention without reducing market offers through a repressive apparatus, every kuna invested in prevention was thrown away if we don't stop the offer. Money dropped in terms of a reduction in the increase. No money was thrown in terms of saving health and the lives of those who were covered by treatment. Secondly, I'm asking because I'm really interested in a recent article in the newspaper that some drug dealers found funds that are freely traded because they're not on the list of banned opiates. According to the Law on the Prevention of the Ministry of Health and Ministers were mandatory even that year when the law was adopted, and now whether it was in 1999, 2000, 2001, I do not remember, in 2001, to bring a list of banned psychotropic substances which should not be transported, driven, used, used without special consent to the same ministry. And then we've already noticed that on the market, in the supply of drug dealers, there are assets that weren't on the list, which we've taken over from the former state since we didn't bring in the new one. So if there's still a situation today that in kindergartens in the evening they sell drugs that aren't on our forbidden list, then it's our own fault that we're obviously acting slower than those who can produce drugs. So I'm interested in whether this new list was brought in, published, audited because the police were almost helpless in these new substances that started to appear on the market. And I end the following: I have no objection to the full strategy being implemented by the state authorities and the school system through the state administration's office and in all other envisaged ones, but I am sure that the effects of this strategy will not be achieved until the end planned because there is no local self-government of municipalities, cities and counties involved in this system that was needed. And it is true that it was extremely good that the county or city centers were finally transferred to the Public Health Office after 5 years of resistance. But that's not enough. They've been transferred. They are not teamed from spatial conditions, technical conditions to personnel conditions. That's why I'm appealing to the Department of Health. Now they're in your system centers, now they're yours. And I don't care who runs the Public Health Office in Croatia at all. I just want the centers within the Bureau to be trained, teamed up and able to do their part of the job. That was both the goal, the purpose and the reason why we forced it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50847	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50848	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd fix a colleague who says that in the future, we'd have more junkies if we had more unemployed, poor, and so on. If you were with a group of junkies, then you'll see that they're mostly children of those parents who are rich. Because if one gram of cocaine costs 500 to 700 kuna then you know what kind of family those kids come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50849	The second correction by the esteemed representative, Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50850	I am correcting the same assumption that poverty, uneducatedness, homelessness, unemployment leads directly to increased drug consumption. So that's not true. Istria has the highest number of people treated for 100,000... and the biggest gross social product. [[/The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Opiates addicts represent 26.2% of permanent employees, and 66.3% of those treated are high school graduates, high school and college graduates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50851	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50852	A colleague was injured by Article 209. The Rules of Procedure for not correcting my claim. I read the introduction from the strategy, nothing more. I didn't give my opinion. It was a quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50853	It's not the injured Rules of Procedure, it's you who made one claim that frequency is... Whatever you've read, you've made a claim that the frequency that there is one correlation between the relationship between those who use drugs with property and social status. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Others challenge it All right, but you're reading it. You're bringing it up. [[Intruder: Dispute the document then, not me.]] And the esteemed representative of Velimir Dance. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50854	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Lesar who said, "Every kuna invested in prevention has been thrown away." I think it's an incorrect allegation that if we don't do this strategy for, for the future and in the years to come, then in no case will we be able to fight drugs in quality. Because at this point, while 90% of the time in all the media, in all the debates we spend only on discussions about addictive problems, and 10% on prevention and primary prevention, I think that any kuna invested in prevention can only improve our efforts to fight drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50855	Thank you. SDSS representative club, respected representative Vojislav Stanimirovic. He's gone, the club's losing its word. HDZ Club, the respected representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50856	Dear Mr. President, secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club discussed a report on the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2004. It has been assessed as one of the best reports so far to include the epidemiological state of addiction with a report on the activities and measures taken by the authorities of the state administration, units of the district, local, regional self-government and associations to combat drug abuse based on the National Strategy and on the Action Plan to combat drug abuse for 2004. In the register of people treated for drug abuse by the end of 2004 there was an increase of 20 thousand 162 people. We recently talked about 16 thousand 721 and then we multiplied 2 times 3 and so on. It is difficult, however, to assess whether this is due to the sociological event, the economic situation, the availability of drugs or faster and better reporting of health institutions and commissions and centres in the county, at the county public health services. The problem of addiction is drug availability. In addition to the offer and demand of the prevention programme and the operation of institutional and non-institutional prevention programmes. In the Republic of Croatia, as well as Europe, a wide range of drugs has been increased. We are geographically located in the area of the so-called so-called area. Balkan routes to resellers and manufacturers offering more diverse drugs that are cheaper and more accessible. Let's not forget that some countries like Afghanistan are practically living off drug production. Out of the tax system are billions of kunas and is believed to be spinning around EUR 100 million in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in drug trafficking today. So a huge drug market. We believe that this debate will also contribute to the increased public sensitivity of the problem of addiction that is not happening to someone else but to all of us. In 2004, 5 thousand 768 people were treated. Of which 4000 163 heroin addicts, we have 732 new addicts. Although according to the National Strategy, treatment tends to be extra hospital 83.5% treated in the medical treatment of 8.2 hospital, and medical and hospitally 7% indicate insufficient number of experts in hospitals and therapeutic communities, insufficient detoxification units and teams, and insufficient number of beds in hospitals. Systemic education and primary health care doctors and psychiatrists should be performed. We also believe that the work of therapeutic communities and their results is insufficiently published. This also raises the problem of registered patients. Because of the complications of the disease or the associated diagnosis, some have schizophrenia, psychosis, chronic hepatitis, and similar diseases. We point to the formation of a unique pattern that would be equally filled in in all places and would, of course, contribute to the accuracy of the data. She's worried about the data that 70% of addicts have Hepatitis B and C, that B and C are positive, but fortunately only 0.5% is HIV positive. It's fortunate that against B, C, B, hepatitis, we're inoculating. However, C hepatitis, when revealed, is already in chronicity, and the tendency is of course according to cancer. When we talk about population policy, then it's worrying that 57.1% of girls up to 19 years are being treated for marijuana, and 34% are being treated for opiates. 6% of high school students in Dubrovnik-Neretva County depend on marijuana and consume in so much that they are constantly under its influence. It's about young people whose brain marijuana seems devastating. In particular, pregnant women should be identified and newborn babies should be protected. Many health institutions in the Republic of Croatia do not test pregnant women and births on intoxicating drugs. The average age of any psychoactive agent is 16.1 years, so the age when curiosity dominates, the desire for entertainment, the influence of a peer in the first place. It's only 11 years before the first treatment, so it's too late. Twenty-six to 27 years old. We would say everything goes from a family that is in crisis today, liberalisation on the market is transferred to the family, along with conflicts that exist in families, alcoholism, other diseases. Every four addicts have been hiding from their parents for four years. From everything comes the need to empower the family, work with parents in a responsible parenting role, and with children with risky behavior that is the most in this group. According to the last census, over 85% were declared Roman Catholic, so those who value a traditional family. It is known that there are the least addicts among the practical believers, regardless of their religion. When we talk about addiction disease, we must bear in mind the definition of the World Health Organization, and it is that addiction is a chronic relapsed disease and a condition characterized by a series of socially negative consequences for the individual, family and society as a whole. All previous data, an increasing number of consummations, and a number of drug consumptions that appear today are at the centre of attention and puts first the prevalence that is directed towards the health population, which has no drug-related problems, and helping students with risky behaviours. Target groups are children of preschool, school age, educators, teachers and parents. Of course, this also requires a multidisciplinary approach, with the strengthening of the work of the MUP on the reduction of supply and demand for intoxicating drugs. Interesting research by the Institute of Public Health of the Istrian County has shown that alcohol consumption, especially beer, has become a normal phenomenon in young people due to its easy availability and aggressive advertising. He regularly drinks one third of the youngsters, regularly smokes 35.7% of girls and 32.8% of young men. In implementing the primary prevention measures, it is necessary to focus efforts to prevent abuse of legal means of addiction, such as tobacco and medicines, and that is what our national strategy is talking about. In the near future, we expect the Law on Therapeutic Communities, as well as the algorithms of methadone treatment, which the proposing himself has reported to the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy that it is at the door and that this is practically over. However, there is also new therapy at our door, treatment with Subutex or generic buprenorphine which is not on our list of medicines to think about because it is cheaper and given once a week. Since the Republic of Croatia is approaching the European Union and in the world of globalisation, the problem of drug abuse is considered a global problem, the HDZ Club accepts this report and indeed assesses it with a great one. Behind each article, you have a conclusion from which a national strategy and action plan can be implemented. And that is why we accept this report with one word and accept the national strategy, i.e. the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2006 to 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50857	Thank you. Honourable representative Ljubica Lalić on behalf of the club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50858	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here, at the end of 2005, we have a report on the implementation of the national strategy to combat drug abuse for 2004. The only report is the Croatian Peasant Party club, which assesses us not only with a report on the implementation of the national strategy but also through a system to combat drug abuse. As an extremely high-quality report, the HSS Representatives' Club will accept it, which does not mean that it also accepts the system's evident shortcomings and incomplete policy engagement in creating the conditions for the implementation of the national strategy to deliver satisfactory results. In 2004, 54 million kunas were spent to combat abuse from the state budget. We believe that these are considerable resources and the result of their consumption of the sea is of interest to this House. 20 thousand 162 persons were recorded in the register for monitoring addicts by the end of 2004, which is more than 1686 people in 2003. They're pretty sure it's not a final number. It is obvious that the problem of dependence in the Republic of Croatia has taken alarming proportions. In order to resolve it, society needs to be fully engaged, both at national and local level. For the increase in addiction and for Croatia, experts consider the most significant impact of sociological factors of which the economic situation is firstly difficult, then the increase in crime and the availability of drugs. The report tells us, I quote: "The problems of drug abuse should be understood from the point of view of broad social issues such as poverty, neglect, unemployment, homelessness and consequential social exclusion. By improving the social situation of individuals and supporting families and young people in general, and in particular by providing support to socially excluded and marginal social groups, protection from drug abuse will also be strengthened.", finished quote. So we are clearly told that without improving the social status of an individual, there is no strengthening of the protection against drug abuse. This fundamental assumption of success has not been achieved in 2004 either, and the basis of experience will not be achieved for years to come. Politics is this and this policy of the ruling to create conditions for improving the social status of individuals, but politics has fallen to the test. Despite the great efforts to convince citizens that the last two years have lived better than before, citizens know how they live, and they live hard, most at the limit of endurance. Unjust social separation and increasing corruption lead to hopelessness, especially a younger part of the population. The belief of imperceptibility is certainly one of the most significant reasons why young refuge and forgetfulness try to find themselves in the world of drugs. The young sense of security is now beginning to lose in the family itself. The family is no longer an ambience of warmth, support and love. The nerves conditioned by the economic situation in the country have entered our families whose members become more and more complete strangers to each other. Despite the declarative attitude of the current government that the family considers a fundamental community, which is a pillar of society, the state government has very little and almost did nothing to help families to regain their place of warmth and trust. This again shows us the implementation of the state budget at the Ministry of the Family for the first six months of this year. Realisation in items related to the family from the symbolic 1.72% to the maximum 31%. It is clear that the ministry does not know how to implement projects that only planned to improve family status. Urging that the picture of the execution at the end of the year will be different is completely unacceptable, as instead of implementing the programme the rebalancing will only reduce the planned funds. Despite all the resistances, we must acknowledge that we have an incompetent family ministry and intergenerational solidarity that has failed to meet the goals set for the second year and does not meet realistic expectations. Nothing more the Minister's ability has shown to the young. Executing items intended for young people from 1.85% to a maximum of 24.97%. Without family affirmation, without intensive socialization of young people, there is no effective protection against drug abuse. It is therefore evident that despite experts' opinion that the most significant impact of sociological factors in Croatia is not the necessary effort to eliminate this most significant factor. We at the Croatian Peasant Party club believe it is a reflection of incompetence, not inability. When there is no political will and ability to eliminate the most influential factor, let's look at how our system of prevention of addiction and help an addict works. The adoption of the Law on the control of drug abuse in 2001 established a system, and amendments to the law have been improved. The fundamental assumption of the assessment of the validity and efficiency of the system is the existence and keeping of accurate records. The report shows we don't have accurate records. So we're told, I quote, "Data for 2004 show a reduction in the number of drug addicts who were in hospital and hospital treatment. The main cause of such a phenomenon is the failure of the requested data and the inequality in their collection.", finished quote. We do not even know the exact data on the number of dead addicts, as the report says: "This year, the Department of Judicial Medicine and Crime did not provide the required data for 2004, citing as real data on the number of deadlyly poisoned persons in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, primarily because of the non-implementation of positive legal regulations on mandatory autopsy of dead bodies and chemical-toxicological analyses of persons who died under suspicious circumstances.", finished quote. We couldn't even get a report in time because the rapporteur says, again, I quote: "All relevant ministries respect the legal deadline for delivering their reports except for the Croatian Institute of Public Health.", finished quote. So when data are collected to form records, bureaucratic insubordination and non-compliance with the law have been recorded. It is the impression that politics is not listening to the profession, and there is no successful struggle without a policy which will create conditions for implementing the set and agreed measures. This policy support or a better wording of lack of support is seen in the following example. The 2002 and 2003 report pointed to a significant role of the therapeutic communities in the conduct of withdrawal, rehabilitation and social reintegration of addicts. There were then 12 treatment communities and 33 treatment houses. In 2004, there were nine treatment communities and 29 treatment houses, so in the decline despite the fact that there are not enough accommodation facilities. The profession said they should play a key role in resociation and rehab, but their status is undefined then and today. At that time, we at the HSS Club proposed to this Assembly a conclusion that would oblige the government, but it was not accepted by the parliamentary majority. During last year, the expert advice of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse supported the draft Law on Therapy Communities and directed the Ministry of Health to forward it to the parliamentary procedure. To date, however, we have not received a proposal from us in any way unknown reasons. Obviously politics doesn't support the profession. The advice itself identified the problem of the decoupling system for detection, prevention and treatment with the rehabilitation and rehabilitation system. The expert advice gave its proposals and opinions on the proposal for guidelines for the production of algorithms, the use of substitution therapy with methadone, which are united in the final proposal addressed to the Ministry of Health and Social Care, but has not been adopted so far. Re-instruction of the profession by politics. Here would be particularly interesting to get an answer to the question why. We need to know that in 2002 and 2003, 13.5 million kuna was spent to treat methadone. Metadonal therapy was introduced in Croatia in the early 1990s. The national strategy of 96 defined the basic guidelines for treatment, recommended doses that should be less than 80 milligrams per day. During use, a whole range of problems such as the inability to control methadone therapy, the absence of a methadone registry to determine its actual consumption, and the number of methadone addicts, the lack of primary healthcare physician's education for the implementation of methadone therapy, and sometimes insufficient motivation to implement it. It is difficult to control the distribution of methadone and there are abuses resulting in leaks on the illegal market. It is estimated that as many as 30% of methadone goes to the black market. The profession says, quote: "On the basis of previous experience, it can be said that the methadone in the Republic of Croatia was used in an insufficiently justified and controlled manner.", finished quote. We are reminded of this insufficiently justified and controlled way and 13 and a half million kuna was spent in 2 years, and the Ministry of Health does not want to adopt a proposal for guidelines for the production of algorithms for the use of substitution therapy with methadone. Why? Let's finish it ourselves. Finally, the Croatian Peasants' Club accepts the Report as very high quality, but does not accept a policy that does not create conditions for a more effective fight against drug abuse. With such a policy, we can fool ourselves that we have done much and good in the fight against addiction by, for example, giving the state budget for condoms 142,000 kuna in 2004 and for needles and syringes 138 thousand kuna. As far as the proposal for a national strategy is concerned, I will give a more detailed explanation on behalf of the club in an individual debate. Otherwise, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support this report, which is extremely high-quality, will also support the National Strategy Proposal. By making it perfectly clear if the overall policy and each segment that plays a role in the fight against drug abuse is not involved honestly and fully in eliminating the most important factors, which is a social factor. We will be able to bring strategies ideal, ideal, but from the implementation of these strategies we cannot expect the result that we all wish for together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50859	Thank you. Now the club debate is over. An individual debate. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50860	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Surely every time we discuss this problem that can't leave us indifferent, we can't help but wonder what we've done so far to combat drug abuse and whether what we've done is enough to prevent the spread of this unloved monster. The answer to that question gives us this report, which is the subject of today's debate. If we add up everything that's been done, then we can conclude that it's really done a lot. We passed the Law, the Croatian Parliament received a National Strategy to combat drug abuse. We are also now discussing the 2006-2012 Strategy. The government has adopted an action programme, measures have been laid down to combat the abuse of intoxicating drugs, the division of tasks and the required competences, the formation of commissions, etc., etc., not to list all. So we could say that a lot has been done, but unfortunately, and that's also visible from this report, we're ultimately not getting the result that we should have, given what we've done so far. The number of addicts is growing year after year. The rate of 0.9% of drug addicts per thousand inhabitants in 1990 rose to 2.7% in the year 99. 20,000 162 people were recorded in the drug tracking register by the end of 2004. The latest results of the 2003 ESPAD survey show that Croatia is at a trend in the prevalence of drug use in young people among European countries with rising trends. After taking marijuana in 1999, Croatia was on average European countries, while in 2003 it was above the European average by 1%. The prevalence of taking "extasy" among young people is 4%, so Croatia is 8th in Europe. Furthermore, in the last year 108 addicts died and this is the first time in Croatia that the number of deaths since drug abuse has passed over 100. The report also notes that all this points to the fact that the problem of dependence in the Republic of Croatia has taken a worrying proportion. In order to resolve the need for the entire involvement of society at both national and local level. The report states that compared with previous years, the total number of treated persons is slightly higher, and the new persons in the system are less. That finding may seem encouraging at first sight, but unfortunately only at first sight. Because right behind that claim, it is said that these data can rather point to the relative instability of the system for accepting addicts rather than optimistically reducing drug abuse, since the reorganisation of the addiction prevention centres and their transition to public health services during 2004 has caused certain doubts about the financing and employment of employees. The fact is that in the Republic of Croatia, many entities are dealing with the problem of curbing addiction, from NGOs to government institutions. Civilian associations, parents, experts are being established. He's trying to secure money in both national and local budgets, and the result is ultimately not what everyone would like. It is unquestionable that the implementation of a national policy to combat the abuse of intoxicating other requirements is a balanced, multidisciplinary and integrated approach. This approach requires coordination of all bodies involved in the fight against addiction and all levels of government. With particular emphasis on the role of local administration in the implementation of drug abuse activities, as well as on the role and contribution of NGOs and various civil initiatives in the area. It is precisely because many entities are involved in resolving the problem of addiction that are important for them to connect and cooperate with each other to achieve a common goal. And that is that the number of people who are in a drug problem from year to year is getting smaller and smaller, and not that this number is constantly increasing, as is unfortunately the current situation. If good coordination of all subjects dealing with the problem of drug abuse is achieved, I am sure that with less money, much better results could be achieved. Prevention is certainly the best drug medicine, i.e. for young people to act so that they are not tempted to experiment with drugs at all. This involves, above all, proper education from kindergarten to primary and secondary school, of course according to programs that are adapted to different age groups. All this requires and a sufficient number of professional and educated personnel, and I think that's exactly what special attention must be paid to. To educate and professionally train a sufficient number of people and teams because the data from the report tells us that experimentation among young people is further on the rise and that the start is registered at an ever younger age. So in 95 years, up to 13 years of marijuana, one percent tried, and four percent of students in 2003. It speaks clearly enough to the claim that education among young people is not done enough. In systemic education, parents should also be involved because it concerns the fact that the parents observed drug use in the first year only 20% of addicts. After the first year at 18 and after the second to the third year another 20%. 10% of parents don't even know their kids are on drugs. In the process of curbing drug abuse, all segments of society should be included, but in my opinion, the family plays a key role. I'd say the family is the foundation and the starting point of everything. Like the good one, but also the bad one in us. As a result, special attention should be paid to family empowerment in the role of parenting and parenting. Another thing that's really important in the whole drug story is to prevent the distribution and supply of narcotics. Because the drug market works on the principle of supply and demand. The higher the supply and availability, the greater the demand, and the report says that the availability of drugs in the Republic of Croatia is estimated to be very large, and every other young person, namely 45%, estimates that marijuana is very easily available, and 20% of them consider it easily available in the school environment. In recent years, drug supply has increased, which has become more diverse, but at the same time more accessible, which has increased drug consumption trends among young people. All this points to the need to establish a more effective repressive fight against illegal drug trafficking. In this area, a whole range of activities and various social entities are carried out, of course, mostly police and customs, and therefore it is necessary to strengthen these services professionally and technically in order to make them as effective and efficient as possible. The treatment communities, as we have already heard, play a significant role in caring for addicts and not only in the area of rehabilitation, but also in the resociating of former addicts, but also in the area of preventive work in the community with the aim of sensitizing the public for the problem of addiction. The problem is undefined and the status of the therapeutic communities making it difficult to track the number of addicts and therefore it is necessary to adopt the Law on Therapy Communities as soon as possible. After completion of the rehab program in the treatment communities, addicts face another problem, which is the problem of resociation. For the sake of quality involvement of addicts in the social community after successfully completed rehabilitation programme, it is necessary to establish a network of centres for assistance in the resociation of addicts. This certainly important role should be played by local communities, which, by designing different programmes and projects, could contribute significantly not only to the successful involvement of treated addicts in the social community but also to breaking up prejudice and mistrust with people who have passed a hell of a drug, prejudices that are still significantly present in our society. And in the end, I would conclude the following. Effective opposition to the increasingly widespread phenomenon of drug abuse requires the active involvement of all entities of the institutions and as well as better coordination among carriers at both national and local level. It is necessary to cooperate with all institutions as well as those acting within the state system and NGOs, media and various civil initiatives, only when we fully achieve this will we get a complete system that will certainly give satisfactory and better results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50861	Thank you. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50862	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a debate on the National Strategy, i.e. the fight against me, I will briefly say drugs. It is a monster, already mentioned several times by fellow MPs, a modern-day monster who has released its roots in Croatia and as we see in all our ways in the fight against these monsters from year to year, the number of users, i.e. those involved in this vicious circle, is growing and it is growing most often, first contact in the age of adolescence, puberty, so young people. How do you stand up to it, is only these measures that are mentioned, whether just by shutting down this fire or by trying something in the part where that fire is being fueled? It has been said that big money is spinning, and whether it is the correct statement by counterpart Caparin about 700 million kunas or colleagues of Lesar of 4.3 billion kunas is even huge money. So, in the background of everything, there's business, there's someone propagating it, and someone's interested in it, not just in Croatia, it's a world trend, and what can we do about it? It's all listed what family, school, enlightenment at all levels is supposed to be, but I think that the strongest role should be played by repressive measures, so the police and the judiciary, but we have examples that it's not going very well. Yesterday or yesterday it was on the news that the police brought in two of those dealers or whatever they were called, so not the first time, but they've been to the police and courts several times before, brought them in, and these courts let them go the same day. In such a way, we certainly will not end those who encourage it, who are in fact the greatest evil of this society. So I'd just read from these figures if something wasn't right. Last year, 7 and a half thousand people were reported suspected of drug trafficking. The state's attorney's office has filed five and a half thousand, so it's already 2,000 abolized by the time the lawyer gets here, and then out of those five and a half thousand, 4 grand and 400 have been convicted. I'm not going to go in at all the punishments they got, but these figures clearly say that there's something wrong in that part of the judiciary, and we can do whatever we want on this final part, when in this part where this evil should be contained in the root, we don't do it, and so I don't have anything else to say, I think it's a problem until the police and the judiciary are stronger and more consistent in the fight against this evil, all of what we do will be in vain, but no matter what we do, we have to continue to do, it's a danger to Croatian society, it's a danger for young people to get into one circle without coming back, that our generations and generations are at risk, and that in this evil we have to fight with all the means. So once again I support this report because it's quality and good, it points to a lot of things, but I think we have to imagine over these numbers that I just said someone isn't doing their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50863	Thank you. In 18 and 21, it is time for individual debates on this topic of the agenda. Honorable representative of Pearl Pervan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50864	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Taking into account the number of pages and the quality of the report brochure on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2004 and the amount of funds spent, it is the impression that the government paid a lot of attention to this particular problem in 2004. Unfortunately, the increase in funds spent to implement it by as much as 136% did not result in a reduction in supply and demand for intoxicating drugs. So, in 2004, more than 54 million kunas were spent to implement the National Strategy and Action Plan to combat drug abuse, but it is unclear how effective and meaningful individual projects are. Unfortunately, that doesn't show well in this report. The report shows the amount of funding provided for projects of certain associations, but no example of the concrete contribution of a particular project is given to the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, it is not apparent how much individual activity has affected the actual results of or suppressing drug abuse. If it is considered that the most common reasons for the entry of young people into the world of drugs with curiosity, uncertainty, dissatisfaction, lack of confidence and destroyed mechanisms of social and emotional adaptation are difficult to conclude, for example, how many 150 thousand kunas the Ministry of Health and Social Care has singled out for the project of the theatre group scene, for example, have success in stopping the negative trends in this area. Is that harsh underestimation or misrepresentation? I wonder where high unemployment is, where domestic violence is, where the rest of this society's real problems are. If young people are currently in poor economic conditions and over 300,000 unemployed and do not imagine a bright future ahead of them and if their own misery meets at every turn then at least they do not need the misery of falling into the world of illegal drugs. In the introduction of the first issue of addiction, the editor of the same ones states an interesting story. I quote: "He who begins to deal with drug treatment resembles a man who stands on the riverbank and sees a person drowning. Get her help and pull her out to shore, and then see the other one, jump again, etc., etc. And while he was doing it he saw the third, fourth. A little bit getting tireder and seeing someone walking along the shore and screaming, "Come and help me get them out.""But this one on the shore said to him, "Oh, no, I'm going uphill to see why they're jumping into the water." It is time for the competent institutions to take upriver to address issues related to this issue. The unquestionable fact is that drugs have become an integral part of growing up to a large number and a part of youth. For this, it is a proof of the civilization's maturity of society to make a commitment to provide young people with relevant information about drugs and the dangers they are hiding in it. Over the last few years, new trends have emerged in drug abuse. The cells are cheaper, more accessible, more accessible, which has increased their consumption and drug frequency in addicts. First contacts with drugs occur at an ever-increasing age. For addicts and young people who, with predisposition to do so and become the messages they receive, are infalsible and overcrowded with cheap retail demagogy. It seems to me that prevention programs for drug abuse have often worked and worked for people who have never worked with drug addicts, who do not know the world of addiction and the recipients of their messages are also young people who are outside the risk group of drug users. We can't get carried away with the thought that drug abuse can be eradicated but it's a realistic and realistic goal to limit, reduce and marginalize it. The strategy highlights two basic objectives. Reduction of demand as well as reduction of supply of intoxicating drugs. It will be difficult for these two goals to be achieved without the cooperation of all institutions and society as a whole with the currently mentioned current problems as potential causes of entering the world of drugs such as high unemployment, difficulties in finding first jobs, violence in schools and families, as well as in the workplace on which the increase and new cases are given daily information in the media. As counterpart Lesar pointed out, there are also problems of increasing delinquency, prostitution, homelessness and crime. So without solving these problems, we can hardly solve the problem of drug addiction and abuse, no matter how well-written strategies or programmes are. Therefore, I would also point out the need for the immediate adoption of an action plan for this period with a list of measures, deadlines and their holders in which I definitely agree with my colleague, Martic, to include local self-government with all its resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50865	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Piploic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Ivan Jurkin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50866	Dear President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In my brief presentation, I would say that although it is quite late, politics is nothing but medicine of broad scale. That's why, from a medical point of view and from a medical point of view, I have to commend this report because it speaks of drugs in one scientific way and it's not easy because drugs are a concept of fear. It's something unknown. That's what destroys the spirit and the body. Isn't it frightening when Colombian macro-boss Pavle Escobar, after his arrest for freedom, offers a total $19 billion government debt and that's his country's budget. And it is therefore evident that drug trafficking is the most profitable business of the world's underworld. It's about 600 billion dollars in the world, right after the arms and oil trade. But the scariest thing is to see a bloated body of a drug addict who unfortunately lost his ego and has only one desire to meet his addictive need. Nirvana and the fantastic world of peace that currently has sadness is for the environment because it sees a man who has lost the pleasure of giving and is left with only the pleasure of receiving and that is terrible. I've been treating addicts, so allow me to shed a little bit more light on this problem without the numbers that the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave us in this report. Often when I was leaving my infirmary in the evening, I saw young people sitting on a bench, crumbs of tobacco, putting green marijuana leaves in it. We know this green marijuana made and Croatia. They're folding the paper and the joint's over. Everything's nice and happy. A cigarette goes hand-to-hand, everything's romantic but it's not because 90% of heroin addicts start just like this, and their perspective is that their lives are made up of lies, theft, burglary, begging. But that's cool, because that's what you're talking about. And now there's trouble. How are we supposed to behave? We don't often know that. Emotions are strong. We can't stop them or eliminate them. And now the father slaps his daughter and the mother puts 200 kuna under his pillow because he knows the son needs a dose. Mother as a mother. But it's all love mistakes and we see both parents solving the problem completely irrationally. However, the greatest success is that the child does not want to try drugs. Why do I keep talking about kids and not adults? Well, because young people do drugs and the old ones don't have 'cause they took that gold bullet and went to death, and usually 35 years ago, because the average life of a junkie is 35 years. It's shocking that addicts have 90 times the chance of death than their peers, and then how can we not be afraid when our children go to disco and techno parties? Disco, of course, because in disco everything revolves around alcohol, cigarettes and possibly marijuana and parties they're made for drug products. We have marijuana, ecstasy, speed, cocaine, heroin and LSD, and everything else is... Just shades. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why they probably banned these big techno parties in Italy because they were the drug headquarters. What do we politicians have to do? We need to protect the child on three levels. First, at the level of personality, we develop self - respect and have a personal attitude toward drugs. Secondly, at the level of the environment, at the level of family life and that it respects the positive standards of the community. And third, at the level of the drug supply that's drugs as low as possible on the market. There they are, there's now drugs and politics they're actually in an unbreakable relationship. Because the state defines the main parameters for drug control, and this lasts a constant conflict between drug dealers, drug dealers, or drug dealers and the state. There's never a winner here. That's where the police and customs have to go because she's capable of breaking the drug ring. Croatia as a transition country that was burdened with war has felt a negative side to drug trafficking. All since the Cold War, since the destruction of the Berlin Wall in 1989, because drugs have been coming to our area from Afghanistan and Pakistan, and one large part has been in our territory. And that's how the drug trails stayed. Young generations change worlds. There's been a fall in traditional, moral values. Work habits and self-discipline are lost. The addicts separate themselves from the rest of society and create their own miles, and the mind is obviously disrupted. Because of memory damage, young people are neglecting schooling and we will not be able to follow the world's trends of development. And to conclude: 4 years ago, Croatia was on average of all countries, so it was over, it was almost average. 2003 above average by 1%. And above average, of course by taking alcohol and pills, we're all familiar with that. So far, work on sensitizing the public for addiction problems has turned into a bunch of data, and everyone thinks they know everything, and they don't. They don't know that someone who tries to get drunk four or five times is gone. Let's compare now, if someone drinks 10 years, the chances of becoming an alcoholic are only 5 to 7%. And if some addict takes heroin seven times a month, the chances of becoming an addict are 98%. But the accident, in fact, is that there is no pure heroin on our market. Dealers dilute it with sugar, starch and powdered milk compared to 1:10 or 1:50. That's why many think they can control themselves, that addiction happens to someone else. But it's impossible to be honest and take heroin. I want to have an honest Croatia. Thank you. [[All right, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50867	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Kajo Butan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50868	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A lot has already been said in the debate, so here's just one brief review. Someone has already mentioned that the Republic of Croatia is located on the so-called The Balkan route. And what does that mean? There are estimates in Europe that even 80% of the heroin spent in Europe cross over Croatia. So when it comes to drug trafficking, we are a transit country, and the activities resulting from international cooperation are partly visible and from an increased number of intoxicated drugs in our country. But in light of this problem, it may be good to speak through the prism of everyday life. The one we've been bombarded with these days with newspaper inscriptions. We have been bombarded with news of the seizures of amphetamines, the arrests of Croatian drivers for drug trafficking in trucks in Great Britain, the appearance of a new drug "snake" in Zagreb, the trials for blood-delict cases made under the influence of opiates. An increased offer, a more diverse offer, socio-economic reasons slowly throw us into the European Union's upper house because taking marijuana is 1% higher than the European average and unfortunately, after taking ecstasy, we are currently at 8th place in Europe. As many as 130 people per 100,000 people in the last year were treated and may be compared to the previous year's number, the total number of people treated is slightly higher than the total of new people, the new addicts are smaller. I don't think it's because of the less addicts. Probably because of the crossing and reorganisation of the centres in the Public Health Institute, this earlier indicates the relative instability of the system for the acceptance of addicts. Of course, the state of widespread abuse also depends on historical, social, cultural, demographic opportunities in each particular county. But the fact that we all need to be disturbed. Which we find as a big warning, as something that did not need color, but a big black spot in this book is that according to the Croatian Institute of Public Health during 2004, a total of 108 people died from 81 of whom died from an overdose with opiates. For the first time, we skipped that number in one year of hundreds dead. And since we had a debate today about the law, let me say this. HIV-positive opiates addicts are 0.5%. Hepatitis B positive 19.2%, Hepatitis C positive as high as 47.4%. This justifies the activities of the damage reduction programme that are currently aimed at reducing the risk of infection, blood - transmitted diseases, or unclean equipment. In the last 10 years, the number of deaths has increased five times, and it's interesting that as many as 25% of them have never been to treatment. The availability of drugs in Croatia is very high. Every other young person, 45% estimates that marijuana can be obtained very easily, and 25, 20% of every fifth student says: We can get it in the school yard. I conclude: drug experimentation is moving into a younger life, and I think it is expensive for all of us to, and therefore, the National Strategy that was presented to us here in 2006-2012 is really well designed, planned, but also feasible to reduce these statistics knowing that, based on each figure or even decimal, there is one human life, one fate and one family. And so I congratulate you on a comprehensive, transparent, realistic and quality report and we pray if possible in the future because we discussed it last time at 12 months if it is possible for us to at least start the autumn session on the bench. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50869	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Krono Peronja's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50870	... It is just a report on the implementation of the national strategy on drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 20047 that entered into all details because matter is too important. [[Specially enabled.]] Everyone is concerned, not only by parents and children, but also by the oldest, drug abuse and consequent drug addiction disease affecting all social layers. And poor and rich, all communities, all countries. This is why the main objective, starting from the United Nations to the European Union, is to reduce supply and demand for drugs, and thus to keep the state of spread of drug abuse within the frameworks which are viable in order not to undermine the fundamental values of Croatian society, but also other fundamental values that are generally accepted by families and individuals. Of course, the very exhausted material is grateful and the effort involved in it can show us in which direction we should all engage personally. And it is therefore an important excellent national strategy, this proposal from 2006 to 2012, so as not to ignore one long-term and long-term danger precisely from drug abuse and consequent illness and addiction. What he would specifically say concerns the Split-Dalmatia County as far as local self-government, regional or regional self-government can influence and develop prevention beyond the state programmes and precisely in the structure of society when it comes to preventing growth. Namely, the Split-Dalmatia County founded the Institute of Diseases and Addictions for many years ago, which showed excellent results and included all the institutions of health, education, police, state attorney's office and NGOs. Since March of last year, the Institute has been involved in the Institute of Public Health and I particularly point out what is bothering us in our county, which is that drug abuse and addiction disease took first place in the addiction of young people. But not only in the coast, in the great cities, but also in the islands, but also in the Zagorian part. It is therefore precisely to praise how much the Service for Prevention of Dependence of the Institute of Public Health, which reflects the configuration and size of the Split-Dalmatia County, has encouraged cooperation with the centres for extra-patient treatment of addicts and not only in the town of Split, but also in the town of Makarska and the town of Hvar. This is precisely in order to have a uniform approach to patients, and according to the programme of the Croatian Institute of Public Health and with the financial support of the Ministry of Health. This is to point out that from the municipality, the city, the county, that from the Croatian government, the ministry we are equally involved in this in a responsible way by co-financing, but also by worrying about how to stop and how we like to say this to reduce supply and demand. What we also want to point out is that it is important to invest in social infrastructure in order to avoid this state of addiction. In fact, without the benefit of free time, young people are easily straying because everyone loves a more comfortable life if it is not directed by families, schools, and other institutions, then it is easy to stray and it is difficult to bring it back. It is therefore necessary to think in what way and through sport, through cultural institutions, singing societies, sports how to develop this very socialization of young people who would not stray and with the help of older people who would build a more secure Croatian future. Of course, the very serious material that we have all talked about and read deserves our engagement and beyond this assembly pay phone, this high House of Honor, and just by participating in the work and in all segments of Croatian society, to show what this problem really is, how the abuse of drugs and the consequent drug addiction must be stopped and reduced. Thank you very much. And once again congratulations to the makers of these materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50871	Thank you very much. Representatives Marin Jurjevic and Mario Zubovic are on their way. They're gone. Velimir Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50872	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Discussing and drug abuse is not only a concern for addicts because unfortunately, in our public, press, TV, and at various meetings, such an impression is created because 90% of the time is used only and there is a discussion of addictive problems and less than 10% of the primary prevention of the healthy generation of young people. I think in the coming years it's necessary and it's necessary to change that relationship or at least to even it up in some way. Because the protection of healthy generations of Croatian youth from the growing trend of drug abuse is under-explained. It is indisputable that addicts are a group of patients in need of medical and social care. That's what I think we all agree and that no one has anything against it. This group of sick people must be cared for by the state and our country truly cares for them. There are centres for curbing addiction and health care facilities with professional staff all over Croatia in which addicts receive assistance. They are also cared for by a large number of NGOs. They're also taken care of by organized communes. And lately, especially, I think they have a lot of success in that. And if they want, these patients can do drugs their whole lives with methadone. It's this famous methadone therapy that, in my opinion, I've been at the opportunity of the 4th or 5th in this House talking about this subject and expressing my dissatisfaction with this methadone therapy, and I don't think it gets the results it should get, that too much importance is given to it that it doesn't deserve. About the second group, about young, healthy people, means this prevention of a healthy generation of Croatian youth, I find too little concern. Because it's young men and girls who haven't tried drugs or who just occasionally use it. And they are exactly the perspective and future of Croatia. I think it's also in plans and programmes, national strategies of the language being written, so they give positive guidance, but they're for other generations. And drugs are unfortunately happening to us today, it happens to us here next to us and I think that formulas such as making more quality activities, developing improvement activities, quality of life for students, etc., etc. They simply express one political approach to the long-term problem, not the one that is needed, spottan, right now, and I think it's already in some segments and late. It's an alarming ignorance of drug abuse, and I think that here, both teachers, school teachers, and parents don't know enough about the abuse of intoxicating drugs, which is the result of the failure of certain state mechanisms and neglect of prevention. So exactly what I was talking about at the beginning, it's that 90% of the time is spent on battle with those who are drug patients, and only 10% on prevention. Home and school, are the original places where children have to, not where they should, but have to get the necessary knowledge of the devastating consequences of drug consumption. The responsibility lies with both directors, educators, psychologists in the fight against addiction, but even greater may be their responsibility than parenting, because their moral obligation is to have their parents imperatively commit to obtain at least the most basic concepts of the dangers that drugs bring in the family and the state community. Investment in prevention, in the protection of generations of Croatian youth who have not yet started to consume drugs is imperative and therefore it is urgent to install the obligations of concrete programmes in connection with primary prevention and to involve the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports of the NGOs far more strongly. And now, in the end, let me just have a few more words about this methadone therapy. In the opinion of some experts that methadone is held to a sigh, that is to say to reduce or reduce the need for drugs, it can be opposed to the opinion that methadone therapy is harmful and inhumane. Long-term methadone therapy with us and the world is increasingly questionable. A life-long free methadone assignment and the creation of severe methadone addiction are a major obstacle to drug withdrawal. I think we can even take one real parallel because, and it says let's give it to an alcoholic for free. Treatment for life, most often this is the case, due to the shortness of life of addicts, by legal prescription of such lethal drugs as methadone is very harmful and the inhumanity of methadone therapy is evident by the mortality of methadone protagonists. The harmfulness and inhumanity of such methadone therapy, the long-term failure of Croatian experts in traffic of methadone, the alarming 40 percent of methadone on the streets and the ethical questionability of the decision are unquestionably sufficient elements for reviewing and relevant for the elimination of methadone therapy. That's my thinking. I spoke it four years ago and three years ago and last year, and I have to say it this year, because I see nothing happening in that field. In my opinion, it would be far more effective to organise state communes and studio programmes and projects to come up with a further perspective. Only in full abstinence without methadone and with the implementation of long-term prevention programs is possible success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50873	Thank you very much. We've got two more applications to discuss. It's Madam Representative Ljubica Lalic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50874	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The basic document for the implementation of various activities in the area of the prevention of drug abuse from addiction prevention, the prevention of drug abuse to treatment and care for addicts and occasional users of intoxicating drugs is a national strategy adopted by the 1996 Croatian Assembly. The proposed new national strategy says the new national strategy will provide a multidisciplinary integrated and balanced approach that unites the reduction of demand and drug supply and will serve as the basis for the action of state institutions and NGOs at national and local level and a framework for the adoption of an action plan to combat drug abuse. So it contains and forms a national drug policy. And now we have a strategy that has been adopted unanimously in the Croatian Parliament and it contains policy and is based on it that an action plan has been adopted. In November 2001, this Parliament passed a Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which regulates the establishment of a system for preventing addiction and a system for helping addicts and occasional recipients. So we have a policy drawn up, we have a regulated system and yet in recent years we have increased the supply of drugs that has become more diverse, and at the same time the availability has increased, leading to an increased trend in drug consumption, especially among young people. Something's wrong. The Croatian Parliament felt it would determine the best policy, regulate the best system, and yet the number of addicts is growing, the offer is increasing. Apparently, they give in to some link in the chain of those who have to engage to at least stop the number of addicts. The proposed strategy gives assurances that it is even better than the existing one. Will it lead us to the desired goal? To increase drug addiction in Croatia, experts consider the most significant impact of a social factor such as economics, war events, crime growth and drug availability, population migration and many other sociological developments in the community. The war stopped, but there were other consequences. Crime is growing, and the government assures us it's in decline. It is available to increase to this extent that common places are known in cities where drugs can be obtained. Citizens, parents and teachers know that, but after unsuccessful reports of silence, police officers say they are powerless because the arrested dealers return to the street very quickly and their impertinence allows them to even threaten the officers who arrested them. Powerless parents, citizens, professors, powerless police and a judicial authority. It seems that only powerful corruption, the economic situation depicts 300 thousand unemployed, the imperceptibility of young people, and some studies say 60% of the poor. In such a situation, we can expect an increase in the number of addicts because unemployment, poverty, corruption and crime will not solve this national strategy, and influences can only be removed by successful policy of the legislative and executive authorities but by today there is nothing that citizens feel best and that feeling cannot remove any statistics that point to positive developments in the Croatian economy. This national strategy has two objectives. Reduction of demand and reduction of supply. To achieve these objectives, such a general policy and strategy is necessary, which will be effective in preventing drug problems and which will truly provide support for effective treatment of successful rehabilitation and appropriate programmes, reduction of damage to people with drug addiction problems. Politics and strategies on the one hand must be directed at the individual, on the other hand to social conditions that enable and facilitate its implementation. This strategy that is ahead of us is just like this, and if politics created the conditions for its implementation, the fight against drug abuse would certainly be much more effective even though it would not eradicate the problem. The solution to this problem is the tasks of different sectors in the field of social care, health care, education, justice, home affairs, finance, economy and defence. The appointment of any link in this chain violates the overall system and distances us from the realization of the desired goal, and the activities and interventions of all participants in the fight against drug abuse must be coordinated. The co-ordination body of the government's level is the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, and at local level, these are county commissions to combat drug abuse. This system was set up by the Law of Restraint, which was passed in 2001. It was the beginning of establishing a system of prevention and helping addicts. For the purpose of systematic monitoring of the occurrence, consideration of issues and other activities related to the application of this Act and the implementation of the National Strategy, the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse shall be established. In order to prevent addiction and implement specific procedures for the release of measures and procedures, care for addicts and occasional users of intoxicating drugs has been established by the Institute for Prevention of Dependence. Therefore, this state and health constitutional is intended to collect data, analyse the epidemiological situation, propose, organise and implement measures in accordance with the general programme of measures to combat abuse from the general programme adopted by the Government, establish a doctrine on the treatment and control of its application, planning, participation in the proposal and implementation of measures and activities to prevent, early detection and control of addiction. Unfortunately, the amendment of the Law abolishes this health care facility for strong powers and part-time work. Part of the competence is transferred to the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the rest is deleted. An entirely wrong and unnecessary commission for the control of intoxicating drugs whose composition and work is determined by the Government. So, instead of a strong state institution, we get a political co-ordination body tasked with coordinating the activities of the ministries from, among other things, entities involved in the programme to combat drug abuse from prevention to rehabilitation, as well as the adoption of annual programmes of relevant ministries and state administrative organisations. It also has a coordinated role to play in the Office for the Control of Drug Intoxication and is without more relevant powers. The Office shall monitor the implementation of the conclusions of the Commission which have met me two or three times during 2004. Therefore, we have a overlap of competences and inadequate powers of the office which should monitor and analyse the implementation of the Law and of the national strategy but also propose solutions to remove the observed shortcomings. It is obvious that some interventions should be carried out in the system, and therefore both the personal and club of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party supports the conclusions of the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy, which point to the need to transform the office. Finally, we believe that the proposed strategy is good, it is in line with the principles of the European Union. That there is a chance of being effective in fighting drug abuse in what policy creates the needs of conditions. According to the profession of higher addiction, the greatest influence has a social factor, which is the economic issue, unemployment, corruption of society, the state of crime, etc. Without removing this basic factor, there is no success in fighting drug abuse, no matter what national strategies we bring, and for this strategy we claim to be good, but it is up to all of us to ensure the conditions for effective implementation of this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50875	Thank you very much. And we still have, Madam Representative Lucia Chickesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen in front of the applicant of this material. Of course, of all existing problems in the Republic of Croatia, we can say that the problem of drug abuse is one of the biggest, if not the biggest, I dare say, even national problem number one. But let me now take a little step away from the subject. How serious it is to approach and how serious it is in this House when it comes to such big problems, I think it shows a picture of tonight's assembly room. You can see exactly which parties are, this House is considered the most working body in the Republic of Croatia, which is used to show its theatre, acting and intrinsic abilities. Now let me go back to the subject tonight, and above all all all all all all compliments to you sitting there as well as to all others who participated in the development of this material as well as the Report for 2004 and the National Strategy for the period 2006/2012. A year. Of course, this report, which is overall and comprehensive, comes from the National Strategy, and what we cannot say is that in the National Strategy over the past six years, something cannot always be changed, intervened, depends on the situation that will develop. Since the problem of intoxicating drugs most applies to the younger population, I am sorry because I thought that tomorrow would be my turn, I failed to get a report from the Police Administration of the Split-Dalmatia County, but I am therefore holding in my hand the police report of the Zagreb County Police Administration and I would say, I would refer to only one finding of European research in schools. In both Croatia and the City of Zagreb, which cannot be crossed because I believe it is a great basis for development and development of the prevention programme. I always fight for prevention because it is the cheapest, because it is the most effective, because it retains the integrity of an individual who is useful to himself and society. And that ESPAD report since 2004, I'm not going to do it now, but it's been a while, moving away, tiresome numbers, but they've been covered in several thousand high school students, either high school, any other four-year-old schools, three-year-old schools, and based on that report, there's been an analysis. He says a survey has been conducted showing that on average 27 subjects tried at least one drug addiction not including alcohol and cigarettes. If this were added to it, then we know what the percentage is. In Zagreb, the trend is 10% higher than in other parts of Croatia, and this shows that Mr. Lesar was wrong when he submitted the same finding as he told me, in which my colleagues opposed by correcting the incorrect allegations. Zagreb students come in contact with marijuana earlier. Most students and students came up with their first drug when it was shared in a group of friends. Drug students usually buy drugs, and drug students usually come to their home. Drug students, the highest percentage of students listed disco, cafe and the like, as a place where marijuana and hashish can easily be bought. 42% of them say that in Zagreb, and 40% of such findings are at Croatia's level. In the students, the first place is the street and the park, 40% in Zagreb, 32% in Croatia. 30% of Zagreb's students and 29% of the school's students cite. This is my very, data that Mr. Bucan also looked back on this problem where the school is listed as a place where marijuana and hashish can easily be bought as well as all the other more difficult intoxicating drugs. In Croatia, that percentage is slightly lower, 22%. 45% of students find it very easy to obtain any means that they can serve as intoxicating drugs. It is here that it is not necessary to go over this, and this is exactly what all prevention programmes should be based on, not just in Zagreb, because I say this is a report for Zagreb, but usually for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much and congratulations again on your report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50877	Thank you very much. In the end, State Secretary Mr. Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50878	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen allow me to say only two three words at the end of this difficult day. The fight against drugs, the prevention of addiction is a living matter that will have to be constantly created new plans, new guidelines and never complete satisfaction until it is eradicated, but what should be said is that in such a single programme we should be responsible for all of us. Why do I say it responsibly? Because if we try to valorize financially, it means the financial entry of certain funds into the system and how much we get back, whether we've invested a million kunas, we get one less or one more addict, then we're making it a lot easier, because we can invest a lot of money, we can make big media breakthroughs, and then let's say one reckless thing back a couple of years with, say, media promotional decriminalisation of light drugs can bring down all the effort and all the resources that have been put into it, and let's look at that stuff every time we talk about it, because that kind of example responsible in society is actually all the efforts we've done. On the other hand, I also know that the report has been very extensive, and we thank everyone for the congratulations on such a report, but I must also say that if such a report is discussed, at least to bring things up. The report was correctly quoted in the first part and in the back, so I have the impression that certain MPs and read both the first and the back, because unfortunately in the part where it is asked for a list of intoxicating drugs I have to say that in the report very clearly on the 67 pages it states that the list and the list of intoxicating drugs was adopted in 2004 by the Government and that it is also regularly renewed. The last renewal was with the urge in the 7th month of this year, therefore it is not true that it is not working on the matter, that it does not exist, and I must also say that the action plan is in preparation and that I am in the introduction, we are talking about the 2004 report against addiction, but I purposely presented the following information in the introduction, and this is that the clinical guidelines for the implementation of pharmacovigilance treatment with methadone have been adopted, that they are now before the Government's Committee and that as soon as the Commission passes now that they will be printed and sent to all those who are dealing with it. I am thus giving some answer to the conclusion of the Assembly Committee on... I can also say and I said the Law on Therapy Communities, the first draft is done, he is now going into one of his procedures so that I also believe he will be able to respect himself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, after the entire discussion today, I thank you for your discussion and for your support of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50879	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, purely well-meaning, it's not that simple to bring algorithms for methadone use. You have the law, read it. It is not possible to adopt algorithms only on the commission, it must give consent and expert advice. Therefore, we cannot say that it is before us, but some work must be done that is prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50881	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The meeting will be held tomorrow at 9:30 with the Report Mandate – Immunity Commission, then the annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50882	A report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2004. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2004 is hereby adopted. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that with 83 votes for, 2 abstentions and one against the proposed conclusion on the acceptance of the report. We now have in line with the proposal of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health three proposals: First, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit the draft law on therapeutic communities within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament. Government representative, Secretary of State Plasimir Ante Golem. Please be clear about this proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50883	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The government is ready to accept, therefore, the first conclusion due to a procedure already in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50884	Thank you very much. I am voting on the proposal for a first conclusion. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 84 votes in favour and 3 abstentions accepted conclusion number 1. Conclusion number two. The proposal for a conclusion number 2 reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to provide guidelines for pharmacopoie within 30 days for the pharmacotherapy of heroin addicts with methadone." Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50885	Thank you. The government also accepts this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50886	Thank you. Turn yourself on, let's go vote. We can vote. The result? With 85 votes in favour and 1 abstention, conclusion number 2 was reached. Conclusion number three. The proposal reads: "The government of the Republic of Croatia commits itself to strengthen the status of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and transforms it into the Central Office with appropriate powers and responsibilities". Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50887	The government does not accept this proposal. Namely, the existing structure in the implementation of the National Prevention Plan fully meets the implementation of the plan and we do not feel that it is necessary to convert it into the Central Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-01-0.u50888	The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Vice-President, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go. ... Okay, thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Proposed conclusion withdrawn. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. It is on the agenda - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to authorise the initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs Miroslav Rožić and Ivan Kolar. It is those criminal cases in private cases which the Croatian Parliament is denying authorisation to initiate the criminal proceedings. So, two private lawsuits. The chairman of the board of directors is in surgery, so we all have a report. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
