ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32071	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me first introduce you to today's moment of consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia, and to the state and need of further development of consumer protection policy in our country. And what is detailed through the national consumer protection programme for 2005/2006. A year. The national consumer protection programme is a document that represents the Republic of Croatia in the process of approaching the European Union and sets out the policy and scope of consumer protection. One of the particularly important obligations that the Republic of Croatia must fulfil by the end of this process is to adapt national legislation to the acquis of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The Stabilisation and Association Agreement in Part 23, called Consumer Protection, is defined as one of the priority areas in which the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia must be implemented with legislation in force in the European Union. Harmonisation is needed more as effective legal protection of consumers is a prerequisite for the proper and smooth functioning of the market economy. The agreement defines the priority and one of them is certainly the construction of an effective consumer protection system. The harmonisation of standards of safety and quality of products and services and the overall consumer protection policy with European standards is expected from Croatia. Therefore, it is agreed that the Republic of Croatia and the European Community will cooperate to bring Croatian consumer protection standards into line with those that are valid in the European Union. That is why the Croatian Assembly adopted the Consumer Protection Act during 2003, which has been in force since 8 September 2003. The Consumer Protection Act only provides a framework for consumer protection policy through which guidelines to protect consumer rights have been implemented. One part of the European Union's guidelines in Croatian legislation set out a legal framework for the establishment of a system consisting of administrations of bodies and independent independent bodies aimed at building and systematically achieving active consumer protection. The adopted European guidelines concern, in particular, the emphasis on the price of products offered to consumers for sale outside the business premises of traders, distance sales through catalogues, printing of promotional messages, Internet services, consumer loan services and advertising services. Actions related to unfair provisions on consumer contracts as well as contracts on the right to time-limited use of real estate. In this way, the Republic of Croatia has taken over European standards of market behaviour both in terms of consumer formation and consumer protection. However, the Consumer Protection Act does not specify a specific consumer protection policy but is left to the national consumer protection programme, taking into account the needs of the time for which it is brought. Consumer protection is a very dynamic area so that, for this very reason, consumer protection cannot be defined over a longer period, but after a relatively short period of time, protection policy priorities should be changed. The content of this national programme lays the basis for consumer protection policy and the choice of priorities in this area for a period of two years for the period 2005 and 2006. Its application will certainly raise trade and trade standards for consumers. In addition, Article 96(1). The Consumer Protection Act stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the National Consumer Protection Programme for a two-year period, for which, in front of the Government, the holder of the manufacture of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is involved with the Consumer Protection Council. As a document, the national programme makes up a unique whole consisting of text and tabular displays relating to specific tasks with defined priorities in which direction and how appropriate tasks should be taken and by established holders all with a view to clear regulation of rules protecting consumer interests. This National Consumer Protection Programme sets out the principles and objectives of consumer protection policy, the tasks which have priority in achieving consumer protection policy, the framework scope and the programme for the use of financial resources to achieve the task of the National Programme and the framework scope and programme for the use of financial resources to promote the development and operation of consumer associations. The objectives of consumer protection are set and developed by this National Programme to ensure the rule of law, democracy and civil society. Further harmonisation of legislation with European Union legislation, the protection of consumer health and safety, the strengthening of the cooperation of all consumers, the creation of conditions for the effective resolution of identified problems in the field of consumer protection, and the public's knowledge of consumer rights in the Republic of Croatia, the strengthening of consumer position on the market, raising awareness of their rights and roles in the market economy, and their real position and strength on the market, and ultimately ensuring consumer support in the exercise of their rights. Through the priority areas of consumer protection set out in this National Programme, all services on the principles of the social market economy, transparency, objectivity and non-discrimination shall be provided. Furthermore, tasks are set out which have priority in achieving consumer protection policy in areas such as public services, health services, health and food quality, product safety, education, intelligence, trade, finance, financial services and banking, environmental protection, tourism and catering, and the use of real estate. It is essential to know the general public about the right to enrol in land books as information regarding the right to time-limited use of real estate, which is the right which, depending on this model, can receive either form of lease rights or co-ownership, or ownership by a limited deadline. This is crucial in the segment of the area of real estate use. In the field of tourism and hospitality, this National Programme provides for harmonisation of legislation in this area where it is necessary to ensure the quality of consumer protection in the use of tourist, catering services. And if I were not to list the content of each of these areas, I would just like to point out more which ones are the holders of the implementation of this National Consumer Protection Programme. These are the Croatian Parliament in the first place, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Consumer Protection Council, the inspection services and the Consumer Protection Association. For the implementation of the tasks in question referred to in the National Programme, those holders as well as other state administration bodies and various scientific and professional institutions in the Republic of Croatia shall also be responsible. The main tasks of these holders in the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme are to monitor the implementation of the established tasks of the National Programme and to report to the Croatian Assembly on the tasks achieved. The implementation of legislation with European Union legislation, the granting of authorisation for the work of a consultant, the clear launch of tenders for projects of consumer protection associations and the provision of advice to consumers and traders, and ultimately the strengthening of inspection supervision. Normally, effective consumer protection also depends on the development of administrative infrastructure to ensure market surveillance and law enforcement, and is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the market economy. As regards the finances necessary for the implementation of the National Programme, they are determined by the State budget. In this respect, in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 relating to the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, it is foreseen for the implementation of the National Programme of 2 million and 200 thousand kuna while the other authorities of the State administration as holders of certain tasks under the National Programme for this purpose have provided for their financial resources through regular budgetary resources in their positions. In addition to the financial resources provided for in the State budget, there are also resources provided for by the Cards project of a total value of EUR million and EUR 250 000 which has been going on for several years. One part of the implementation of the project is heading towards the establishment of a central information system for consumer protection involving the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the State Inspectorate, the Office of the State Inspectorate, Sanitary and Veterinary Inspection, the Court of Honors of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Associations and Consumer Protection Associations. In order to implement mutual information in the area of consumer protection with a view to protecting their interests, as well as to obtaining basic knowledge of obligations and consumer rights. This information system, in particular, allows applications related to consumer rights violations, each of which is the type of application, under which the Consumer Protection Act is based, the scope of the regulations and the application of questions relating to such areas as trade, public services, tourism, product safety, misleading advertising, door-to-door sales, consumer loans, unnecessary provisions, unfair contract provisions and "time sharing". Delivery of data by courts of honor, delivery of data from the State Inspectorate and its district units, connection with other inspections in the authorities of the state administration particularly sanitary and veterinary inspection. A list of products that may present a risk to consumer health and a list of traders who do not comply with consumer protection provisions and infringements of regulations by categories of traders, craftsmen, legal persons, traders and individuals. Dear ladies and gentlemen, by voting the proposed National Consumer Protection Programme as one of the priority areas of civil society, there is a purpose in achieving further progress in relations with the European Union until full membership. The adoption of the National Consumer Protection Programme will make an important contribution and impact on the further position of consumers in the Republic of Croatia in a positive way and I therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt this National Programme for the period 2005 and 2006. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32072	Thank you. Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Honored Representative of President Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32073	Mr. President, the esteemed promoters, the esteemed MPs. The Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 24th session held on 2 February 2005 discussed the proposal for a national consumer protection programme for the period 2005 to 2006 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 30 November 2004. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this proposal as a parent working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that this document concerns the period from 2005, 2006 and that one of the documents is necessary to comply with the law of the European Union. In the context of the matter governing consumer protection, the Croatian Assembly also adopted the Consumer Protection Act, which entered into force on 8 September 2003, but which did not adopt a consumer protection programme which is the cornerstone of consumer protection policy, which sets out both the objectives and those in charge of achieving them. Following the introduction of the proposal's representatives, a position has been made in which consumer protection has a lot of problems to address, and a question of how consumers are protected by agricultural products and fish has been raised. The applicant's representative replied that a central consumer information system will be established to obtain information on the quality of the product and that by 18 July 2005 it will be proposed to the Croatian Assembly to amend and supplement consumer law. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for 2005, 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32074	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. There isn't. The Committee on European Integration. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club. Honorable representative Katarina Fuček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32075	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the HDZ Club has considered with special care the proposal for a national consumer protection programme for the period 2005-2006 and proposes to Parliament and its acceptance, as this creates quality assumptions for Croatia's faster transformation into what is said in the introduction, civil economic success and democratic society. Consumer protection is determined by Croatia's desire to improve the quality of life, improve the efficiency of the economy and force it to adapt to market conditions. That our citizens are constantly facing violations of their rights under the Consumer Protection Act and the data available by consumer protection organisations, and over the past year, around 200 thousand citizens have requested protection of their rights. However, the fact remains that there is still a very small number of citizens who know their legal rights and who act on them and in this area we still have to work hard to raise consumer awareness at all levels of society, especially through institutions where and by the nature of things this area belongs to. But they're not just citizens of buyers who don't know their rights under the law. And the vast majority of traders do not know the provisions of the law, and this is one of the problems affecting the quality of the service, which is not impossible to remove and thus avoid perhaps unnecessary disputes. We should not be surprised by such a situation because it is quite new and until a recently neglected area. That Croatia faces in terms of a serious approach only by entering the society of democratic countries, unlike consumers in the European Union who already have a 30-year tradition of dealing with and regulating consumer protection. And so far, they have achieved a high level of protection that is in some way within the experienced and legislative framework of our standards. Croatia still has much to do to comply with the legislation, especially in the part of the regulation of responsibility for the product and part of market surveillance. In addition, it may be essential to strengthen and promote awareness of the need to educate consumers in the need to join and support associations that can only protect consumers' interests by their independence and impartiality. This national programme sets out priority activities in the field of consumer protection for that period, which is also a legal obligation because the law does not define a specific policy but regulates the protection of consumer's basic rights in the purchase of products and services as well as other forms of acquisition of products and services on the market. It is certainly also a turning point in protecting civil rights because, in Croatia, a long time ago, the area was arranged in parallel, through other laws and certain segments were not even covered by any law. And the existing law itself in practice cannot be applied in certain provisions because of incompleteness and inaccuracy. But this can certainly be improved as must be removed and all other causes that still pose a disturbance to achieve the appropriate level of consumer protection system. It is also necessary to highlight here the principles on which consumer protection is based, and which are incorporated into the legal norm and, of course, the national programme. These are the right to protect consumers' economic interests to protect against risks to life, health and property. The right to legal consumer protection, the right to inform consumer education, which means the principle of transparency. The right to join consumers with a purpose of protecting their interests, the right to represent consumers and to act as representatives of consumers in the work of bodies that address issues of their interest. In addition to the objectives and measures clearly mentioned in the material, priority is established, i.e. tasks according to areas of consumer protection, so that the need to strengthen public service protection has been seen in that part. Health services, food quality health, safety of education products, information, financial services and banking, trade in environmental protection of tourism and real estate use. In addition to the tasks themselves, it is clear that there are operators with the specified time limit and source of funds, which is, in any case, a completely different approach compared to the often occurring political expression that has avoided defining specific jobs and holders, thus avoiding control and, of course, responsibility. Since the strategic objective of the Republic of Croatia is to join the European Union, and the main national interest, this national programme is a significant contribution, to the possibility of raising the standard of administrative and legal order of society, and better democratisation and raising the overall quality of life. As well as better preparedness for the accession of Croatia to the European Union. For these reasons, the HDZ Club, or the Croatian Democratic Community, supports this national programme. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32076	Thank you very much. The club of representatives of the HSS is a respected representative of Ljubica Lalić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32077	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. When this House was passed in 2003, the Consumer Protection Act was supported by the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives. Pointing to the importance of the law that applies to every citizen and to us. We indicated the need to breathe his life as quickly as possible because in itself he will remain a dead letter on paper, which in Croatia legal practice is not even unusual. We have expressed our disdain which, for the adoption of the national consumer protection programme, a legal deadline of one year has been left. Knowing our mentality, we were afraid of breaking deadlines, and that's what happened. We have before us a proposal for a national programme. Why the national program is important. So because it should systematically create a consumer protection policy and set priorities as well as measures to achieve them. Without the program, the law doesn't mean anything, or very little. If this is the case because the applicant also states that for the protection of consumers, 200.4 years has been lost. In this conclusion, we will also find the foundation in the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship plays a very important role in consumer protection. In the 2004 budget, the national consumer protection programme planned and secured a million kuna, given what needs to be done to protect it is an unequivocally small amount, but also of such a small amount was realised by 10.11. In 2004, only 113 thousand kuna. Which message comes from this data. Very ugly but only possible. The state power of consumer protection did not give a proper priority, and if consumers in Croatia are unprotected and protection standards are far from European standards which we are not only seeking but are obliged to bring them into line until we enter the European Union. And now that we read this proposal by reading the explanation, we will get the impression that we are also bringing this National Programme proposal for someone else because of the European Union. It's the wrong approach, we don't have to bring in anyone else to bring in this program for our own sake. People's proverb says the Force of God doesn't pray and God doesn't love force. This programme must reflect the desire to protect consumer rights. Unfortunately, this does not result from the reasoning, because it is concentrated on the obligation to comply and comply with the requirements of the European Union. So the national programme systematically creates a consumer protection policy and what should be the objective of this policy. The unequivocal objectives are the eradication of poverty by national and effective governance, social justice, respect for human rights and dignity of human persons and families, a regulated social market economy, legally regulated and active protection of human environments. The goals are good, and the path to achievement is difficult and the debt is often almost unbearable especially if we do so for someone else and not for the protection of the economically weaker parties in business transactions. If there is a genuine desire by the state authorities to protect the weak, then, in the context of the programme, in no way could the following text be found, I quote: "There is a round-up legal framework that ensures the implementation of the highest values of protecting the consumer of the European Union in the practice of the Croatian market for goods and services, unfortunately a significant part of the existing regulation regardless of the fact that there is a whole series of weaknesses and irregularities in it, which prevents the achievement of the fundamental rights of consumers, its dignity and economic interests." It's a finished quote. So the authorities know that the existing regulation is not implemented, it finds that someone else is responsible, the responsibility is nowhere else but in the state government itself. The laws should be implemented and what appears to be flawed or bad must be changed during application. In this respect, ensuring the implementation of the law is an inevitable role of the State Inspectorate, which in our opinion cannot only conclude that the reason for avoiding the law is a mild criminal policy. Unfortunately, it was not and there was an impression, we would like to have proposed amendments to the law that would introduce a stricter criminal policy, but unfortunately it was not and it is the impression that the proposal and launch of an initiative to launch changes in the jurisdiction and obligations of someone else rather than the one who located the problem. As long as we do not have a responsible inspectorate and a fast and efficient judicial authority we here in the Assembly can bring ideal laws and programmes, consumers will still be truly unprotected. Of course, the responsibilities of non-exculpatory ministries or insufficiently exercise administrative oversight over the implementation of the regulations of their work. It seems to us that this is a Croatian specificum because it would be difficult to find a modern, democratic and civilised state whose ministries do not exercise administrative supervision of law enforcement. Furthermore, the priority of protection must be given to the most vulnerable consumers. And the most endangered are public service users. Public services are considered to sell electricity, gas from distribution network, heat, public telecommunications services, postal services, passenger transport services in public, urban and suburban transport, drinking water supply and waste water disposal, and cleanliness maintenance. There is no competition in public services, and if the consumer does not stand behind the state, it is fully exposed to the self-will of the service provider. Croatia's Telekom accounted for and accounted for phone conversations as it will, although countless times in this Chamber required that the billing unit price for phone calls be a second and that phone subscription be abolished. We had a promise from the Minister of Transport but the benefits of the consumer's promises have not yet been felt. Consumers continue to pay stolen and scattered electricity and heat. It is not the consumer's fault that the supplier cannot prevent the dispersion on the lines or illegal connections. The consumer pays water. For example, in my county. The Brod-Posavia County has the most expensive water in Croatia, and the delivered water is not for drinking but has technical water status. We in Slavonia per metre of square living space pay the bail fee, and only 5% of Slavonians have a system of sewers. The remaining part of its waste water collects in septic pits that drain into water streams or worse into drains designed to collect surface water in our villages. Where are consumer rights there? Where's the environmental concern and the right to a clean environment? It looks amazing but true, Slavonia doesn't have drinking water and sewer systems, and it pays very dearly. The consumer must be particularly protected in the field of health and food quality. This Parliament has adopted the Food Law as a legal basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human health and protection of consumer interests in relation to food. But the promoter says, I quote, "Unfortunately, the implementation activities did not take place with the intended dynamics especially when it comes to the institutional structure." It's a finished quote. It is incorrect to say that the intensification occurred in the first quarter of 2004 and the Food Agency in Osijek was established. The head of the agency was appointed at the end of the year and today the agency is not in a function intended for it by law. Which means that when we don't have implementing regulations to regulate the health level of food, we don't have implementing regulations on the basic requirements of food quality. And while this is so, the Croats will continue to eat what has expired in the countries of the European Union and must not be used there, for example. Frozen pork. Not that we're gonna eat crumbs from someone else's table, we're gonna eat other people's junk. In addition to the lack of legal regulations, non-implementation of existing laws in the function of consumer protection, a system of consumer intelligence and association has been developed. With the establishment of the counselling center, we have done nothing and only four consultations in Croatia as far as is predicted is also nothing. To protect consumers means to want, to protect consumers means to want to edit the system for them, not because of someone who asks us to, but is very happy to sell us their waste, of course, if they can. In addition to the comments made by the Croatian Peasant's Club of Representatives, this National Programme will support this programme with expectations and a request for real implementation, not because of some others, but because of consumers, which we ourselves are. But it is also intensive to monitor the implementation of the law, because whatever they bring to this Croatian Assembly, if it is inequitable and unimplemented, will not contribute to the general good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32078	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32079	It is not true that Mrs. Lalic is not in office. The head of the agency was elected, so the head of the agency in the summer, in the autumn of last year. And with today, the agency employs 13 people who are fully operational. So the Food Agency is working.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32080	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, HNS Representatives' Club of PGS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32081	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. These days in the debate in the Assembly we have a lack of programmes and reports and bureaucratically speaking, and this programme may seem to be one of the obligations or formalities that the Parliament had to do not only because of the Consumer Protection Act, but also what we are unfortunately always putting into the first place in such documents, some European obligations, and not the obligations of the state authorities against consumers. So 4 million citizens in Croatia, and that's why in the opening part, I don't think it was necessary to refer to European rules, traditions and norms because this is because of us in Croatia citizens and consumers in Croatia. And indeed, the importance of this programme as an implementing act of the Parliament has an extremely great importance directly indirectly 4 million people appear every day according to what we call a consumer to this programme and to the law. What is the importance of consumer protection and what is this programme talking about? In order to protect the health of consumers, security and economic interests and consumers, as well as the economic interests of the whole country, as well as through consumer protection and economic interests. This is usually done in such a way that Parliament brings to the Government's proposal laws or ministries and governments other legal rules, and then comes to the scene the most important part of the job, which is informing citizens, i.e. consumers who are their rights, how and where they can protect them when the infringement comes and eventually comes to the turn of the state again to return their institutions and mechanisms through the legal system the deprived rights. I will follow the part that analyses the existing situation, laws and legal norms so that consumer information in Croatia fails, and the proposer himself says that legal protection also does not work properly, because those procedures which end in front of the competent authorities either last long or are small powers of supervisory authorities in particular inspection services, and sanctions are too small. Every day, a large number of new products appear on the Croatian market, new services and thus the possibility of shorting out certain consumer rights is growing. From day to day, it is precisely because of this pace of change in the market that there is an opportunity for consumers to cheat, cheat or deceive more every day. The government came with a proposal for a consumer protection document from traders. Therefore, under the terms of the trader, all those who are on the market for any service or goods shall be considered. However, there is little talk about how and who will protect consumers when the government or state is a direct or indirect provider of certain services to that same consumer. For example, there is no proposal for a solution to protect consumers from illegal fees, and once it was a telephone subscription and after a decision by the Constitutional Court and the Law on Consumers of the State could not affect the service provider to change its name and declare it legal and nothing happened. Or, for example, who will protect consumers of telephony in pulses for a minute where the state or part of the state firm is a service provider. Or perhaps that Croatia, which would seem to be funny to someone, will the state firm HZ have to pay someone compensation under this programme and law if due to train delays he missed further contact or conclusion of a business contract. Or whether Croatian highways will return money or not to charge highways on highways when only half the highway is in traffic because of works or anything else. So here we have a situation where the state is a service provider, that's what the program almost doesn't talk about, and I think that part of the program should really be done. We get to where the regional or local self-government service provider is. Is it possible that those who are engaged in distribution, gas, water and electricity against their consumers have no obligation to compensate for damage or reduce the cost of consumption if there is no electricity in the household and household damage. If the gas goes out, not because of the haemorrhaging and the explosion, but because of the poor maintenance, due to the poor concern of the distributor in the distribution system. They can cause damage to the consumer every day and do not have an obligation to apologize publicly to consumers, let alone to reduce the flat-rate fees during monthly or quarterly accounts, and they regularly send any price increases, compliance with energy growth practically the same day. So there are consumers in Croatia completely unprotected, where the service provider is neither a foreign trade chain nor domestic entrepreneurs but regional or local government. They say the law is good, I agree. This programme could go away if at least for the second year we get some work done, but I look back at the importance of the programme that the proposer has also identified as important, which is consumer information. There are no state authorities, no government or parliament that can protect consumers' rights more effectively than consumers themselves, provided they know their rights and know where the address is to be contacted if they consider their rights to be denied. Who in Croatia has to carry this job? The programme states it is a commitment and association, i.e. civil sector and parts of state government and local and regional authorities. I am not sure that such a dispersed right or obligation to inform consumers is the best solution because so far and in this area nothing has been done. Not to mention, I'm going to illustrate it to you with a few examples that are a day or two old. According to the Consumer Protection Act, each product must have a clear visible and legible manual for use, declaration, manufacturer name and importer. That's what the law says. I will now also show you to the Secretary of State two examples of how importers, traders and state inspection interprets that provision of the law. This is the cover of one product containing the declaration, the period of use, the information on the importer and the exporter and the period of use. To read this in the store, you have to have a microscope with you, and I talked a little before they say that in America this provision says that it has to be written so that both the elderly or the low-sighted can read it. So this is law enforcement, clearly visible and readable. On another product when a trader advertises gratis something along with it is this sticker of the day, but all product data, importer, the deadline of use is this little white down you see. However, there is no period of use, and when I translated it from the language of the manufacturer, then I realized that the period of use had passed. ... This is pasta, I presume. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So is it possible for any state inspector in this country to interpret the provision of the Consumer Protection Act that this is clearly visible and legible. You can find this in every Croatian store every day wherever you come, especially in foreign chains. Please give this to the State Inspectorate and let them read this if they can read it. Thank you. Who, by law, in Croatia has had some responsibility to protect consumers? Consumer counselling, quoting the law and the program. As far as I know, there are none in Croatia at this time. The plan is up to two years, seven to have them. I'd like to have at least one at national level this year that will work and have free phone contacts. At least one thing, you don't have four in this year, one counseling center we'll already have a big step. The second is the Court of Honor of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Chambers of crafts which, by law, monitor and control the implementation of good business practices, and if the institutions are in violation of social disciplinary measures. Where is the Court of Honor of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, try to find their addresses, contact numbers and try to appeal to them as a consumer, regret or ask them to review the implementation of good business practices. Any legal entity of this country. The third is the Consumer Protection Council. The advisory body of the Minister of Economy. I only found information about them in the National paper when they were appointed, elected by the government and nowhere else. And they're actually the promoters of this program, if I read it right. So they proposed a program to the government, government to us. The authors of this programme are the Consumer Protection Council. It might be a good idea for them to take public action, too. They're hidden, and I really know only the composition of the People's Newspaper. The fourth or fifth is the Consumer Protection Department of the Ministry of Economy, which even has two divisions. That's what the program says. Try to find them, try to find the Consumer Protection Department at the Ministry of Economy and ask for some service from them. I quit, and in the end, the associations that got in total last year, if I'm not mistaken, are 600,000 kunas of state money, and that's all. And in the realization of this programme, they are expected to be twice as big as all these state bodies that are listed and that exist that something should work. And I'm going back to the subject of information. So long as we don't make a guide and catalogue of consumer rights that will have to be at every place of sale and provision of services, so that every trader makes it available to every consumer, we won't be able to do much. The guide, catalogue of the right greatest result and success of this Council and this programme if someone writes it in Croatia and offers at least 4 million copies in the first wave, so that people can see what their rights are. Is the happiest solution to counselling as a civil sector? So, NGOs, as part of some, as an association or a state-level consultant, will not judge, you have decided to offer it as a non-governmental sector. But secure enough resources for at least one counseling facility. When it comes to the catalogue of law and when we ask citizens what are the rights that each person breaks in every sales place and law, just a few questions. Where must the product price be highlighted? On every product, it says the law. Go to the shops, you'll see that the prices on the shelves are not on the products. I've interpreted what the term "readability of use" means. What about the billing of public services that must be accounted for by consumption, rather than the advances everywhere where the nature of public service allows it? Electricity, water and gas is possible every month, why fees are charged throughout the year, if the nature of the service is such that it can allow it. And I'm done with the next one. The means of remote communication, telephone, mail, fax, but the remote communication includes flyers, advertisements and catalogues that are bombed daily by Croatian citizens when I find them in my mailboxes. The law states that a trader with this means can benefit except for explicit consumer bans. What does that mean? That on our mailboxes we have to stick the sticker "I forbid the disposal of advertising material". And in preparation for this debate by reading the law, I did it with myself. I wrote in the mailbox, "I forbid the disposal of advertising material." And they're smarter than me because then they're their advertising material every day they throw me on the ground under the mailbox, in the yard, underneath. And I tried to advertise and protect my right to this distributor, and trust me here on this pile of paper you can't find the address or phone number of consumer protection to complain to them before I file a complaint against them. So you can distribute everything you want without obligation to say who you are, which is the service of consumer protection, where the address of this company is to protect your right. There are also those who do the opposite, so they give their ID and phone number free of charge to consumers when they do stupid things to complain to them. The penalty for this by law is 10 to 50 thousand kuna. This time I'll forgive the gentlemen in Pevec for that punishment, but not in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32082	Okay. Thank you. HSP club, Honorable representative of Ruža Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32083	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Why did we need an incentive or a warrant from the European Union for consumer protection, and what is the interest of all citizens? We wonder what the Croatian governments have done to date that should have cared for the rights of Croatian citizens of consumers and raised the level of these rights, as appropriate to a modern democratic country, and as close as possible to the level of rights of citizens and consumers of the European Union. We all know that consumer protection in Croatia is low. This is supported by the assessment of the situation in the national programme proposal itself. The evaluation mentions superior regulations, mild criminal policy, poor supervision, slowness, disorganization, non-information and the like. These assessments show that the Croatian governments so far have not been among the priorities of the protection of consumers of citizens. On the other hand, it is interesting how manufacturers and service providers, particularly, did not have problems with Croatian governments. It's no problem to argue that their position is better. Regulations were adopted to contribute to manufacturers, service providers, protect themselves and protect themselves still various monopolies and are certainly on their side of organisation, information at the highest level. The principles and objectives of consumer protection in the proposed programme are generally acceptable, as are generally acceptable and set objectives and measures. What we see in HSP as a deficiency, it's an analysis of the real situation and the real problems, which are public services. Let me count some of them. For example, drinking water supplies. Large shifts have been made in the last 10 years, but we are far from the day most citizens will be available drinking and healthy water. We know that there are thousands of facilities in Zagreb without water and sewage, and in villages throughout Croatia we do not even talk. It seems that a good part of the Croats does not spend water as a consumer, so they should put in the position of drinking water consumers first. When it comes to water, it is important to protect the source of water, with a view to preventing commercialisation and the sale of springs. Isn't it time for drinking water sources to be excluded from any store, especially selling to strangers? And by the way, one little question. Will anyone who buys INA, and as we know, except it's not sold, also get a concession on wells, drinking water sources available to INA? And the second question is cleanliness and municipal waste. We are witnessing that the problem with waste management is high and increasing every day. Efforts to introduce order have led to many conflicts of interest, affairs and protests. It is unfortunate that the business on waste management in Croatia is also taking over from the company. Do we Croats have to leave waste management to strangers? Road maintenance. Real road maintenance according to some minimum European standards in Croatia is practically not available, except for large investments in highways. On most other roads in Croatia, the so-called impact holes are being patched up, and signs are being corrected. However, there is also something on the construction of the road, so we now have local elections to cut the ribbons all over the place. They're so-called pre-election roads, but they're very few, too. Cemetery services. We have domestic monopolies in the cemetery holding high prices at low service standards. A get concession for chimney services in Croatia is as valuable but as unattainable as winning the lot. In short, it could be said about public services we are far from the European level. Health services, in this national programme of 52 pages, health services only take up one page. When the text is read, the conclusion is that in Croatian healthcare everything is fine and there are only a few small things to be fixed, while we all know that Croatian health care is in a major crisis, the media is full of health affairs. Health problems are described and read daily about the necessity of health reform as something to come. However, in this national programme on the health system crisis and the measures needed to improve when it comes to the protection of patients' rights, there is no letter. In short, part of the national programme when we talk about health institutions is incomplete and missing. The health correctness of food, a topic on which Croatian consumers are extremely sensitive and particularly interested, which is not surprising, because of course everyone eats and takes care of health. All kinds of imports are imported into Croatia, including large quantities of food and food products, mostly lower quality, and thus lower prices than Croatian products. The best way to protect the health of Croatian citizens through ensuring the health of food is to protect Croatian agricultural production. Domestic production can be quality monitored and controlled. It is not enough to promote "Bought Croatia" with jumbo posters and videos, and nothing concrete is done to protect healthy domestic production from imports, from GMO food of suspicious quality, which nevertheless meets minimum health standards. In just a few years, trade in Croatia has been taken over by foreign trade chains, justifying that it is necessary as a Croatian opening to the world and one of the conditions for integration processes towards Europe. To this day, none of the authorities answered the question of how in our neighbouring Slovenia there are no foreign trade chains, they are the European Union, we are not. Even more Slovenian national trade chain is spreading to Croatia, it is the result of the former governments, so it would be convenient to explain the rules for us, which for Slovenia. The additional question is whether or not Croatia's competent foreign trade chain services are supervised in the first place, whether one of them is punished and who controls Croatian goods quotas on their shelves. Finance and banking. As far as finance and banking are concerned, we Croats have long been in Europe, Croatian banks have been rehabilitated with Croatian money and then sold at slightly lower prices to foreigners. It is understandable for foreign banks in Croatia to implement their policy, i.e. Foreign owners, which means they are helping and lending their products in Croatia. And in order not to run out of money there are Croatian municipalities, cities and counties, there is also the Croatian state because all the budgets are in foreign banks. The question arises why interest in the same bank in Croatia is twice as high as in the country from which the bank comes, who will and how to protect the consumer from such interest rates is not seen in the national programme. Telecommunications, another gold coke sold to a foreign state company, under the password "Privatisation Necessity". But there seems to be a day when Croatian citizens will be able to find out the way and under what conditions the Croatian Telecom is sold. How can we talk about consumer protection if we do not know what it says in the contract on the sale of Croatian Telekom. What we know is that the Telekom monopoly is protected from the law to continue to protect itself by delaying the competition from entering the Croatian market as well, we know that the entire telecommunications service in the home country is Germany far below the price in Croatia. As we know on this subject, we have tens of thousands of civil suit. Finally, this national programme can be supported as a framework for the priorities of state policy although we are not sure that the adoption of amendments and the addition of laws will significantly improve consumer protection in Croatia. If this national programme is needed as a declarative step conditioned by meeting obligations in the integration process as such, we can also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32084	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ruža Lelic, Ruža Tomasic. Rose Roses.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32085	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Tomasic said that health care is in a major crisis and that the media is full of affairs. This finding is not correct and I can say quite reliably that all segments of health care are quite well... and that for what we stand out for health care I think we have a perfectly well-organized health system. I can go on. Then it was said that the media are full of affairs, the truth is here and there are certain affairs, and then the impact information shows are repeated from day to day, and if the results of the regular procedure were to wait, the opinion of the medical chamber and courts, then they would see that these affairs are significantly less or less.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32086	Okay. Dear Representative Damir Cain, IDS Club. We need the lights.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32087	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Here, on page 6 of this National Consumer Protection Programme, among other things, it is said that the underlying causes of such an unfavourable condition are viewed above all about unclear, incomplete, inaccurate, inappropriate regulations, it stands. Then, the failure to implement, or to carry out, administrative oversight of competent ministries of implementation, the practice of this part-round, the slow resolution of infringements and mild criminal policies, and not to further mention, among other things, the adoption of regulations by units of local self-government which are contrary to the laws of public services, and here is now specificising water, charges for connection to municipal infrastructure, etc. THAT a man simply cannot believe, the government is now suddenly calling local self-government finally or specifically because of the connections to this municipal infrastructure and on the other hand, it is not able to extract a beam out of its eye. The government simply does not see its monopolies, which this Assembly is intent on knowingly stretching out, and it is quite irrelevant now whether this is about mail, whether it is from HEP, whether it is about Jadrolinia, Croatian forests or any other such "state enterprise". It is clear that a government protects its monopolies, a pity that it did not protect its banking system or its telecommunications, so today they would not have $30 billion of external debt, or about 80 percent of gross social products burdened with external debt. But legal protection works interesting when connections to local infrastructure are due to, and the fact that we're being robbed through every state-owned company is nothing to anyone. All right, so be it, but then at least we have to admit it to the urbi et orbi, so we can just see what's going on around us. After this point, we will also discuss the monopoly of the Croatian Post Office, and now that I know whether in that second debate someone will call for this national consumer protection programme in the Republic of Croatia or whether this national programme will remain just a dead letter on paper. However, the Post Law aims to abolish the i.e. Eliminate competition, so-called A courier, more specifically on the street, sort of send 600 maybe a thousand people, and I'm saying it's not a game. In the post office, no one can or will be out of a job. But in the courier services, as they are formed, it would be very easy to find 700, 800 or more employees on the street tomorrow. In a post office that the budget covers as it needs to be, all MPs will be solidarity with full law...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32088	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32089	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32090	That's what we're gonna get to. It's a debate about another. That's what we'll come to.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32091	No, I'm talking about monopolies now, I'm talking about consumer protection now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32092	It's about consumer protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32093	To protect consumers if you haven't noticed, then maybe a light.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32094	I've seen, I've noticed that you're talking about the Mail Act, you're talking about courier services.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32095	So now I'm talking about monopolies, which the state protects its own, and it abolishes any competition and that's something to talk about too. But now that I'm back on this water line payment, which is also on this page 6th, the proposer of this material suggests. HEP has the right to do the same, it is about 15 kuna if I am not mistaken, because it is regulated by their tariff system brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia's telecom also has a fixed amount defined by a contract probably between the government and Telekom, finally about that thieving thief, where one second is charged one minute doesn't have to spend a single word at all. Now the water lines all over Croatia generally don't have these basic payments, but the waters along the Adriatic coast are usually a holding. Why? Because they're bound to the season have a large number of weekends, everything has to be dimensioned to that maximum consumption and it's costing gentlemen. And who pays at the end? It pays only the local population, and it's kind of donated to the weekenders. And that's the point. And this fixed amount that the whole of Europe knows in my court when we have such exceptional cases should simply be kept, when these Adriatic waterways are due or we should be fair to abolish that basic payment to both Croatian telecommunications and HEP, etc., that would be simply fair, and that should also be discussed by these consumer protection associations. So let's say an Istrian water line that, in 10 years without a single drop of aid from the state, I've laid down about 500 kilometers of water, vatification has raised from 60% to about 97%, for example in Bjelovar recently I've listened to water coverage is about 25%, the whole burden falls on the local population, and weekends to express myself passing the liso. What are the objectives of consumer protection? Here on page 16, everyone quoted them, saying, it is necessary to ensure the rule of law, the democracy of civil society, the further harmonisation of legislation with EU legislation, to create conditions for the effective resolution of identified problems, awareness of consumers about their real positions on the market, and now that I am clearly not reading all of these tables. What are public services? Well, we've seen it's water supply, we know it's clear, water treatment, passenger transportation, unclassified roads, cemetery maintenance, my predecessor Ruža used to say that we have monopolists in the cemetery, instead of having one fair video surveillance, so that for example the dead can't vote, there's a public debate, etc. What are these medical services? You don't need to stress that. But there's something else to mention. General hospitals in the so-called Ownership of county and clinical hospital centres is simply not in the same position, these other states resuscitate all dubiosis, and the burden of rehabilitation in general hospitals falls exclusively on the county. It's not normal, it's not logical, it's not reasonable, it's not fair. Because how will I speak now in mind some county with 200 million kuna budgets monitor a general hospital where it works by a thousand hundred, two hundred people, and which at an annual level needs 220 million kuna? And what's going on? That services in these health facilities are incomparably "modest", rather than in these clinical hospitals that are being rehabilitated by the state. I'm glad this material talks about GMOs among other things. I'm glad Croatia is not indifferent to this chemistry. It may be a different GMO to say good day, but we should not recognise the right of citizenship in GMOs and therefore we should welcome the counties that at least declareably prohibit the planting of seeds of such species on their product. Mrs. Lalic mentioned earlier I literally quote "not that we're going to eat crumbs from someone else's table, we're going to eat scraps". It's just that when she was talking about that frozen beef or pork, it's just that there's really another question here, why all this import? Why isn't anything in our country worth producing? Why is it cheaper out there? Why does agriculture fail along with a small trade, while foreign large import chains are simply booming? Why is that? Why is it, because it is more and more cost-effective to import, because we are expensive, because the purchasing power in Croatia is weak, so people choose and waste to survive and rejoice when someone at such a centre as Mr. Lesar used to offer them that chocolate bar even if it has expired. Page 20 and to find this, 23 says that the law regulates the area of food, food for animals containing genetically modified organisms, they determine the powers of the competent authorities with regard to the conditions and procedure of placing on the food market, the food ingredient contained or consisting of GMOs and food and food ingredients produced by GMOs, but not containing them, etc., that I am not quoting any further. We just don't need something like that. You don't need to get into it, you have to try to build it, I'd say this country and on healthy food. Trade, banking, etc. which everyone also mentioned. What do you say? Croatia still has much more interest than Europeans. The truth Croatia already has credit lines that are on the trail of the most favourable in Europe, for example, entrepreneur 3 there is interest between 2% and 3%, this should be appreciated. But commercial banks are out of such state-local programs incomparably more than anywhere else, but that's so almost not going to change in us. We're coming to the area of environmental protection. It is interesting to note that JANAF shares are growing, reportedly 49% compared to the presidential election, which will say that "the company" and "Adria" towards those who appear on the stock market are moving on. It will be interesting to follow the steps of some members of the government, how they will take up the area. Clearly, it must not be compromised by ecology although on the other hand it must not be endangered by the Rijeka Refinery. Perhaps here a referendum of the local population would be the right answer for citizens to decide directly on their interests. Everything else will be in some way raping their will. What does the government do with this program now? It clearly proposes that the programme be adopted, that the Croatian Parliament discuss it once a year. However, it states itself that the importance of inspections, all our laws clearly have prescribed various criminal provisions, but the consumer is when monopolies are, above all, the state's weakest link. So the solution is also here in the competition, but we just don't want it. What are we doing? Instead of creating competition we sell monopolies, we guarantee them a monopoly like the case of the Croatian Telecom on Wednesday which is one tax policy regardless of who took part in it. The single-word market must be open to everyone, not just them. Monopola clearly has more from cigarettes further and no one to remember, for example, introducing extra profits or extra taxing the profits of these large monopolies. I say it's not normal for a company to have a billion or a half, two or three billion net profits after tax. It just doesn't make sense, and that's what the state needs to talk about. Finally, I don't know. And what else do we have? Yes, we now have that it is possible and to make profits from the Republic of Croatia untaxed, before we at least taxed it and that is tax policy as finally and this provision of salaries for consumer counselling. It's about secretaries and stuff. So in the end, they're going to realize that we're adopting this whole program to "existentially" solve a dozen or fifteen people. All in all, I think this body is going to be dealing with marginals and monopolies will continue to reign regardless of whether it's banks, whether it's telecommunications, or whether it's big trade chains. It's tragic, that's how it is, and we're still getting lost on marginals like those water connections. I'm going to mention once again what Mr. Lesar here showed those chocolates that expired the deadlines for use that are given these chains. Tragedy is that a nation that has nothing and such a product that is given to it is ultimately looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32096	SDP's respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32097	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The issue of consumer protection is beginning to appear more seriously in our daily life to remind ourselves only by signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union and by adopting the Consumer Protection Act. Unfortunately, we in the SDP Club find that the problem is still seen as just another commitment that stems from this harmonisation of our legislation with the acquis of the European Union. Much less is still present, especially than those who are first invited to implement such laws, that it is a matter directly related to respect for human rights, the rule of law and democratic standards that we need to build, strengthen and adopt first and foremost for our own sake and for our own progress, for our own sakes. Long after the end of the socialist environment in Croatia prevailed the belief that the consumer is the last concern of those who seek to regulate new relations on the free market. And while social sensitivity as much as it did arise in matters of regulating labour market relations but certainly not enough in the systematic consumer protection until the beginning of 2003, almost nothing has been done by the consumer and it is precisely the weakest and most unprotected market participant who does not have enough instruments and ways to choose even through civil society associations for his own protection. The consumer does not appear on the market for profit or pay for his work, but solely for the purpose of meeting the needs of his own interests for which he does not gain but gives money. Therefore, the consumer needs the protection of the state, the protection of the legislator, which will provide him not only with adequate legal provisions but also with material resources to implement the organised protection of his rights. With regard to the legislative framework that determines consumer protection, we can say that only the first shifts towards a comprehensive and rounded acquis have been made to allow the implementation of the highest standards of protection by model and in line with the acquis of the European Union. In practice, it is confirmed that the real situation in the implementation of the consumer protection system is still not satisfactory, i.e. far from satisfactory. The rules, including the Consumer Protection Act, are incomplete, often vague, inaccurate, and then often inapplicable especially in the part of the implementation of administrative supervision, inspection control, here we have the most problems, the resolution of infringements, the involvement of local self-government units, the level of consumer information on their rights and the level of consumer organisation. It is not surprising, therefore, that only about 20% of consumers are aware of their legal rights and it is probably just the same percentage of traders who are fully aware of their obligations to consumers. For this reason, we in the SDP estimate that there are enough reasons and enough space for political action towards strengthening the consumer protection system. The more everyone, just all citizens, appears on the market as consumers. Their interest is our interest, too. The level of their knowledge and their entrepreneurship and organisation in protecting their own rights on the market is a reflection of both our actions and our support. We are therefore determined to require that an organised stable and effective consumer protection system become an integral part of state policy. We also point out the need for long-term funding to be provided in the state budget for the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme at a level that would not be reduced but increased in the long term compared to 2 million kuna per year as scheduled for this year and next year. It should also be taken into account that pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union and, later, in the Union Structural Funds provide long-term funding for the implementation of consumer protection policies, which will not be less than the current million and a half euros per year. This National Consumer Protection Programme for the next two years comes as a slightly delayed implementation of the obligations of the Consumer Protection Act itself. We are still assessing it with a good start, a good introduction to implementing not only the legal obligation of such a programme, but primarily a good introduction to the existence of a guide that points to all obligations and motivates, which drives all those invited to ensure the rights from the protection system of the weakest in the market. Of course, this is only the first such programme of activity and we hope that it will be better and more comprehensive in the future, perhaps even more inspiring. Today's certainly parliamentary debate on the national programme should also send a message of encouragement to all participants of its realisation as much as anyone can find greater or less regrets for certain details of this programme that this national programme and, as well as effective implementation of the law itself, we want to bear in mind that these rights of those weaker than the weakest consumers are not truly and weak rights, however. However, no one should understand that the adoption of a national programme completes the consumer protection system in Croatia. This is indeed just the first initial step in this complex business, and perhaps even more so far remains the obligation of the competent authorities of the state administration to make sure that the recommendations and removal of deficiencies in the consumer protection system that the European Commission has pointed out in its opinion, in our application for membership in the European Union. I am therefore sure that the forthcoming review of the compliance of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, so-called screening points to the necessary further adaptations of legal and enforcement solutions in the field of product responsibility, judicial protection and consumer rights, market surveillance and inspection powers, strengthening consumer protection associations and promoting information activities and consumer education. Therefore, we have not yet reached the end of the road and there will still be a lot of work for all the competent participants in the implementation and effective protection. Our parliamentary role in this joint business will be aimed at constantly pointing to the remaining system-setting stakeholders, the rapid and quality adjustment of that part of the work relating to the legislative framework and its full harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. That is why today we must point out the need for a very serious approach to defining amendments and the addition of consumer protection laws whose adoption under the national programme for the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis is foreseen in the third quarter of this year. This will also be an opportunity and also a reason for a number of other laws which are partially touched in this area, so the areas of consumer protection to be linked and aligned with the observations which the European Commission also points to on its opinion on the functionality, i.e. the dysfunction of our consumer protection system. So, most importantly, what we have to point out here as one segment of the government is that the competent authorities of the state administration in their own and above all state administrations must show more activity, more initiatives and more understanding for the overall importance of consumer protection policy. But first of all, there's the relationship of the ruling, what is the relationship of the ruling to the administration, what are the personnel, what kind of personnel it is, of course there's the reward system. This will only show credibility in the understanding and acceptance of the fundamental values and freedoms on which the European Union operates. And otherwise Croatia in general in this sensitive, delicate process of starting negotiations is dramatically facing the very problem of credibility. It's a matter of concrete situations, there's been a lot of speeches here just saying when almost all the club representatives pointed to something that's alarming. This is a question of public services, public services provided directly or indirectly by the State through monopoly or through its own companies. It violates the most human rights, the most consumers, the most consumer rights. Therefore, the state which is called here to protect consumer rights is shown and proved to be the greatest offender of these rights. And then what is created in an ordinary consumer citizen? That he's powerless, and even through the organizations themselves, to stand up to this one huge monopoly, one huge system. Here, we're witnessing that just these days a lawsuit of 30,000 citizens is being prepared to appeal to the court. It's something that's alarming for every country, which means that they've absolutely scheduled the previous systems, that all of them on the judiciary that's absolutely powerless to absorb such an enormous inflow. We created one earlier during the coalition government, one significant amendment to the Parian Procedure Act wherever the state is manifested as the owner or co-owner, where the prosecution threatens it, just to show commitment and in some way show progress in spreading civil and business morality, that the state that is first in obligation and to protect and respect other people's rights, to recognise the obvious claims. They'll see if something goes on and on and on. We were witnesses about half a year ago when a public campaign was launched on the consumer protection initiative, then a particular ministry, had the responsibility to say that a genetically modified organism was indeed found in certain products, but that is because of the protection of such, this and such a manufacturer, and even the trader did not want to publish the name of that producer who did not publish it on the declaration. Of course, then the citizen feels confused, that he feels powerless. And what is then not only with the Law implementing the Consumer Protection Act, which is with the Law and if anyone remembers the Law on the right to access information. So it's obvious that this is about the more important interest that the state in some way through these particular situations has to valorize. From what is said, therefore, we will support the adoption of a national consumer protection programme for the period 2005 and 2006 but will continue to insist on the active and more recent and complete regulation and coordination of this important procedure with the acquis of the European Union, I say, but as long as the state points to the part, so it declares otherwise, in practice we will not realize what is ultimately drawn out in the national programme itself. But this is another test to show if we really mean what we're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32098	We're going to a debate. Resumption of the debate. Honored deputy president Djurdja Adlesic on behalf of the Club of HSLS and DC Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32099	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that it really needs to be repeated that the National Consumer Protection Programme proposal for 2005 and 2006 is not a document that we bring for the sake of others, whether for our own sake or not, but for our own sake, for the protection of our citizens in the fight against stronger, with foreign companies, foreign trade chains, but also with state monopolies. It is about a set of priority tasks that should indeed be binding, about civil gain, about a strong definition of the democratic image of all serious countries. We all know that the consumer is the most vulnerable and weakest party on the market, and it is a pity that, although it is good that, of course, this document is in debate today, it is more than 13 months late. I'll remind you of Article 96, paragraph 2. The Consumer Protection Act, which defined the deadline within which this document was to be adopted. I'll remind you of another piece of information. We were already talking about our Slovenian neighbors today. They brought this document back in the summer of 2000 and thus were much more effective in protecting their citizens than we are. Today's consumer protection system in the Republic of Croatia is based on the year-long application of the Consumer Protection Act, however, the most important role in protecting consumers as well as in protecting other civil rights seems to have been played by more NGOs than state institutions, and I would especially like to highlight the Consumers' Association which has contributed greatly to and produced the text of the National Consumer Protection Programme proposal. And I really think that this association but similar associations need something stronger to affirm media. More strongly follow them not because of the people who lead these associations but precisely because of citizens who need to be aware of their rights as consumers because it is the fact that our citizens are not aware or at least not to the sufficient extent that these legal rights belong to them and we are witnessing a number of cases in which the existing legislation is being violated especially in the area of trade. I think it should be pointed out that those who violate these rights are often exactly foreign entrepreneurs who would not have done so by chance in their countries that consumer protection has been resolved in a more efficient way. However, a country that does not have a fair relationship on the market for goods and services does not take it seriously, so it does not want to operate or enter its capital into them, and then the question is how much they want us in their community as well. The most effective model is certainly a self-protection model. So raising the awareness of consumers, trust in institutions, educating consumers and entrepreneurs, increasing the effectiveness of supervision, adopting regulations, sublegislative acts that are missing and, of course, correcting the observed shortages of existing laws, but also strengthening or, or the possibility of strengthening civil organisations that can strengthen institutional support for consumers in monopoly companies on the market. You will often hear one of the problems that we in local self-government know well, and this is the lack of the number of inspections and inspectors that this part of the job should also be doing. It is good that this programme has developed all areas of protection policy in the Republic of Croatia. The role of all entities, however, is set out, but the Consumer Protection Department, which is responsible for implementing consumer protection policy, monitoring the situation and activities, proposes measures to improve the work of the consumer protection system, performs other tasks, so it is located in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, and I will agree with all who have said that they are a little overconfident. It seems to me that it's actually a more polite term for poor work. Because if this work is so quiet and so self-absorbed that we expect citizens to know about it and count on them to be able to help them. It is okay to plan to set up three counselling centres in larger regional centres such as Zagreb, Osijek and Split, but at least for 2006 it is necessary to think about setting up a few more counselling centres, perhaps for smaller cities where this is also important. The possibility is also given to establish a larger number of counselling facilities. The conditions for their establishment are prescribed, however, whenever you have a condicional, then it is something that can be defined and avoided, so for the work of a consultant by local self-government units it is very standardly prescribed that if they are able to secure space. Who will be the one to check whether they are able or not? So we keep it necessary to change some of the text on page 47 and that it really does not work if it can but is obliged to do so precisely for the protection of its citizens. I'm also going to give you an example of how it's going to be evident that you actually need to make such a change. Let them not be angry when I mention the city of Zagreb. Besides, there's a similar experience with MENSA. An appropriate space for a consumer advice centre should be provided. It is almost a million people, a centre to be, to grow into a consumer protection centre, to be included in the European network of such centres, and I have the information that five years has not singled out a single bottle of consumer protection per million inhabitants. This is really the information to be imagined, and then if we're still checking if they've tried to find space then you'll see what the struggles for space and media battles were, and then there's some space of 50 square meters that he's been sneezing, so when you put together that they don't get the funds first and they get the space, and I'm not saying that the space was acquired according to some other colors, then you'll see that really local self-government needs to be committed to protecting their citizens. Of course, more money needs to be allocated for the realisation of this program. I have information for Austria that singles out 1 and a half million Euros only for the Salzburg area. It is clear to me that we do not have the budget of either Austria or Germany, which has 400 consumer counselling centres, but at least we would make these conditionals so this is where it is optional to provide them with space, optionally to provide them with the funds. If we want to have a serious document, we have to convert it into a certain obligation. And, of course, the necessity of education and media presentation. We should not expect our citizens to know who to turn to and believe in institutions when they have no reason to believe so far. Unfortunately, I too have to update at least a little of what I had a chance to listen to today. So we say they sold, they sold the banks, they're foreign banks now. Well, I don't know who gets the chance here, but he has the right to seriously surprise that fact. As a rule, it's most surprising to those who have stood up for it. Same story with Deutsche Telekom. I will remind you that just before, in the last term, HSLS tried to make quite a noise, looking for contracts and with today's noisy parliamentary sides there was a complete silence. Looks like it's a known ex-wise mind. When it comes to the regularity of the food we buy, we can warn citizens about what to read and tell them to buy better food. But do you know why they buy cheaper ones? Well, of course we do. They buy invalid and cheaper first of all because of financial power, i.e. financial impotence. And with education we will have a conscious consumer only when he can buy better food from his money. So it would be good to avoid demagogue as much as possible, I know it's not entirely possible here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32100	Thank you, dear colleague. We move on to an individual debate, the first in line is a respected colleague of Stazic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. This national programme comes as a consequence of the legal obligation, although it comes late, but it's good that it came. It's the beginning of the first step. Because consumer protection in our country has never spoken a word of it until 2003. Every start is hard, you don't have to be surprised if he's a little clumsy somewhere, but this program isn't. He's both good and meaningful, I think we should support him. It will be particularly interesting to see after a year when the first report comes about its application. Is what's being drawn here realising it because it's not good to make a plan and it's supposed to happen and add up where it needs to be done? But it is relatively transparent, systemically designed, and in this respect praises can be given to him. Methodologically, it could be argued that it is not sufficiently clear that these traps prevent an effective fight for consumer rights for their protection are at stake. The first obstacle or the biggest obstacle is certainly monopolies. There is no effective consumer protection there where monopolies exist. The consumer is completely powerless in front of the monopoly. Where there are several service providers, the consumer must always choose. Well, if he doesn't like one, he'll go to the other one. In the face of a monopoliest he does not have that option, the service must be used because it needs it and affects the terms of delivery or payment of that service cannot. Thus, fighting a systematic fight against each monopoly would have to be a priority for the government in the fight for consumer protection. Secondly, I do not think that there is a sufficiently clear principle of fundamental principle in consumer protection, which is the payment of spent. Paying only what's been spent. We are here in many areas very, very far from it. Here are a few examples. Warm energy means heat work. Look, when you're wasting electricity, you have an hour and it reads how much you've spent, and no matter how much you charge yourself at the end of the year, it's calculated and paid for what you've spent, when you deliver heat, you're simply not in that position. You're not able to send the heat notice to me now there won't be two months in that apartment I won't turn off the radiators and I don't want to pay for it. Because I don't even use it. You can't do that. Because we don't have legal solutions that would make the heat possible. Among other things, the law on mandatory relations should be amended in this sense so that those supplying that thermal energy are forced to force them to respect consumer rights. And not to please them because it's easier for them. It is easy for them to send bills to everyone, to share the energy that goes into one housing unit, it is divided by the number of tenants or by squares of the apartment to be sent to them account and over. Well, clearly, it's simpler for them. But that simple solution we cannot encourage, but we must think about how to change it for the purpose of consumer protection. Another important area is these telecommunications services. I would like to remind you that the SDP Club sent this Assembly a proposal to amend the telecommunications law to amend an article in September. That you can charge only what is spent. It's the content of our law. Now here we are almost half the Great One has not yet found the President of the Parliament a good time to discuss this law. That's the consumer's concern. This shows concern for the consumer. So don't you care that THT charges them and what we haven't spent or we care about protecting these citizens. There was also talk here about a subscription to telecommunications services. It seemed to me sometimes with a misunderstanding. Look where the subscription problem has arisen. The network that exists has to be maintained. That's what someone has to pay for. That's quite clear. She won't sustain herself. He needs all these wires, pillars all of it, somebody's got to pay for it. But where there's been a mistake. An error was made in the first privatisation of the year 98. Instead of tampering that the network had been singled out that it had been established as a state-owned stock company and that it was then privatised in telecommunications to provide services, so that all those who came must pay this stock company which would be 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia if they had to pay signal transmission services we would have a clean situation. Because now this stock company would charge these concessionaires to maintain the system and not charge citizens a subscription. That's how we did it, for example. When we changed the Law on Croatian Radio Television where we singled out transmitters and connections from the system and registered as a special company. There was a mistake in telecommunications and privatisation and in selling that system to Deute Telecom, Deute Telekom, as the first customer, also got a network. He's got a net, too. Therefore, when such a one-time contract is concluded, it is over. When it sold out, it almost sold out. It's incorrectible. It is one of the biggest mistakes not made in 98 when we talk about telecommunications in Croatia. A mistake that, unfortunately, is irreparable. Because now we can't nationalize it, of course we can't. What we can buy back from Deutche Telekom. More expensive than we sold them. So to solve this issue systematically in the interest of protecting citizens. Yeah, but when it was sold, it wasn't about citizens, it was about making money. The water line Mr. Cain was saying something about the construction of a water line on the islands. Look, we have absurd situations here. As a matter of fact, consumer fraud. That's where they first collect the money to build the water line. And then they sell that water at 12 or 25. With that, the one who spends less money, so what citizens do spills water to get into the lower class. These are mindless solutions, which citizens must come to to protect themselves because we have not passed adequate regulations that would make it impossible. Here's something else about public services. Mostarina on the bridge. Look, there's one decision when that bridge was built that this bridge would be charged until the investment invested in it was alimony. It's been a long time, a long time. And it's still charged. Well, these are the consumers who cross that bridge every day are cut off, cheated. The decision has not been changed completely illegally charged to them by a bridge. It's good in this proposal that you are predicting law-making, and it's already in the first quarter of this year to arrange real estate intervention because it's one area that's completely unregulated, it's wild... This shall be transmitted from the kitchen without any responsibility to the consumer taking the service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That should have been regulated a long time ago, but since it hasn't been so far, it's good to plan on doing it as soon as possible. We need this law and I think that with it, a very large and interesting area will be regulated because citizens get into real estate daily, always someone sells something, someone buys something and remains completely unprotected, completely unprotected. If he buys a cat in a bag, if he later discovers that his property has serious faults, he remains unprotected. So I think this program, the proposal for a program, should be supported, that it needs to be preserved as a material to compare it to your first report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32102	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It's time for a respected colleague of the Koreans. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32103	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I think it is not disputed that this Consumer Protection Programme should be supported, because it is indisputable that since it started with greater consumer education and when the consumer's right to protection has been regulated legally that a positive shift has been made in the Republic of Croatia. However, in this assessment of consumer rights, we are already establishing ourselves that the legislation on the one hand and the practices implemented are in good discontinuity and that there is simply no adequate legal and other protection that should most often be implemented by state bodies. What's this about? Here I had recently one conversation in one of our eastern counties where a sanitary inspector complained when she went to certain facilities that simply no more applications made no sense. Neither criminal nor any other because unfortunately nor the sanitary inspectors do not primarily have sufficient protection within the system of state administration, and when one of the applications is submitted most often it falls to the litigation of the judiciary. Therefore, this should be seen multidisciplinaryly and this programme as such can certainly get a passing grade and can pass. However, in all these activities that are legal, we still need stronger and stronger than before to bring criminal provisions for those who do not carry out on one side what they should, which do not comply with the rules. In particular, it seems to me that there is also a need to highlight the health of food, i.e. that we have the possibility of eating in healthy food restaurants on the one hand and, on the other hand, that what is sold under the declarations under the products that it really is. If we had more, perhaps, more protection in courts especially in offenders where a large part of the reports that the officials of any other competent inspection have given, simply goes into obsolescence and one who does not respect consumer rights simply does so systematically because he is aware that the state does not yet have a mechanism to protect it. My colleagues have already spoken of us, unfortunately, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament in my opinion on several occasions, and we have contributed ourselves that consumers are not protected. For example, when we talk about some of the utility services, we don't give consumers a choice to use a service but to pass laws, perhaps even more protection of monopolies than we should. Here it has been pointed out several times also to monopolies that especially appear at local levels it seems to me quite certain that there are not only consumers protected as taxpayers because they pay some services through local self-government units more expensive than it should be from maintaining cemeteries, green areas in the city, etc. To this end, we also had that case last year with the municipal service of transporting the deceased whom we hastily declared a municipal service and where local self-government units introduced their own monopolies through their communal companies. Even though by then citizens had better and better and cheaper services across the market that regulated it. The special problem is, and it's already highlighted here, heat energy. It seems to me that there are already conditions and demands for consumers to be introduced into buildings, i.e. calorie apartments, where heat exists. But here we have both heat and gas energy distributors often make such steps impossible because it would also result in someone not making extra profits. I also have to point out as one of the problems that in buildings where there are boiler rooms as a common building device there are also requirements for residents to simply turn off, to introduce thorough heating. But just because of their interests, distributors don't want to do it. A special story, and that was said here is product declaration. Here's what I have to say. I went shopping last week, among other things, with such a banal product as shampoo. And you must indeed, here I am wearing lenses so for reading I have to have special glasses, even with the help of these glasses I haven't been able to find a declaration and text in Croatian at all. And unfortunately, the inspectorate doesn't have enough to worry about. It's not the principle of whether it's a small trade or a foreign or domestic trade chain, I personally think it's a problem of a state inspection that simply doesn't do its job. I'm not getting into it if there's enough or not enough inspectors. However, they also often complain that certain stores, not to enter certain trade chains. A special problem are also technical instructions for using certain technical appliances where for a dozen different types, for example TVs you have the same instruction in Croatian. That's the problem, because then someone who may be more technically educated can be very difficult to cope with, let alone those who are less educated who simply can't do anything about it without other people's help. In conclusion, the program as such can pass and it is correct. However, the measures that follow this should be made quite certain when the law is created should make far more effort and will to have stronger criminal provisions for those who violate, give stronger and clearer powers to either the State Inspectorate, or other inspections in the work of their work. And it seems to me that the state must do a lot more in the judiciary, above all, in the infringing courts where disputes about consumer protection often end so that they react quickly, not to go into obsolescence, and that is why those who frequently violate positive legal regulations feel powerful and strong and do so in continuity. I think it's also the task of all of us here in this High House to help create such laws, that we don't have a situation that is. I hope so, because this assessment of the situation is not based on relevant data, it probably hasn't been conducted so far. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if we had at least an informatively shortened sort of, shortened reports on the work of the State Inspectorate, any sanitary and other inspections where we see what problems we have. Because if we also want consumer protection to be better and better quality, we need to provide them with financial and human resources to do their job. And also publicly state who those who break regulations are. And unfortunately, to hear perhaps where it must not be recommended by some local or other powerful man to go and determine the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32104	Thank you, dear colleague. It's time for a respected colleague, Jagoda Martic. She's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's time for a respected colleague, Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here today is really a lot of those who brought up on behalf of clubs said about this National Consumer Protection Programme, but we really need to point out once more as many colleagues have said that this programme is needed first of all because consumers are the most vulnerable group in that chain, and eventually all of us sitting here representing consumers and our citizens are consumers ourselves. Every day in the paper, we can read a few articles that talk about how someone said it, maybe even ugly, cheated on someone. The program itself, and already several colleagues pointed out, has been reviewed. It covers 11 areas that each has worked out for himself and the tasks that are good for both the holders and the deadlines and sources of funding. The programme is just another one in a series of programmes I would say protection of fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms, and another step in creating legislation that I have said already improves the situation of the most vulnerable, and these are consumers. We have seen that there are a whole series of consumer associations, so not only do they have to act, but also the government, the resolute ministries that must be involved in the protection of these citizens. I particularly think that in this programme, the area that talks about education and intelligence is good because for now, at least for me, it is the weakest link in consumer protection. Most of the time, people don't know what their rights are, who to complain to, who to turn to when it's threatened. That is why it is important to commend the establishment of these consultations in this first year in these three large centres, and I see that 2006 is planned for four. I hope as much as our esteemed Vice President Adlesic that this network will spread, that it will not only remain in large cities but also in smaller areas where information is less available to people. I also spoke to the Committee on Human Rights about this, and I cannot be here right now, but with the Vice-President mentioned, the distinguished Adlesic, agree that we must force the local community to secure space because in smaller areas there is very often a local community not owned by its own space, so the financing of this space would certainly be and could burden my faith in this local community. Here I think that this should be settled in some other way, by providing funds, even though these resources in the state budget are secured, and that we all have to work with civil society associations and with the government, and also we here who are sitting and representing our citizens, working to protect our consumers, and thus we all have to protect ourselves well, so even though some say that it is just a declaration, I think it is precisely because of those elements that it contains that are highly enforceable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32106	Thank you, dear colleague. It's time for my dear colleague, Joseph Leco. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's next, dear colleague Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32107	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Basically, to protect someone's rights, it's important that they are essentially defined. So it's very difficult to say that you can protect a right if one, and in this case we're talking about the consumer, not that I don't know what the rights are, but that the service provider has not defined that right, so it turns out that the consumer or user of the service or service in this case is entitled to everything, and then, essentially, when they want one of these rights, they can't do anything or they can use it. I will look here at two or three areas, one is education, the other are health services, and the third are public services, so I will try to stand in defense of local self-government, because I think the only local self-government in this material is highlighted as an obstacle to consumer protection, which I think would certainly not be good. It is even generalised that local self-government authorities, with honorable exceptions, do not adhere when it comes to the construction of a consumer protection system. I don't think they're generals, and in this case, the flat-rates shouldn't come from the Central Government. I think that local self-government, so I'm going to be a generally different grade to have, is a lot more about protecting consumers, honoring exceptions, than does, for example, government or some of the government institutions. But I want to say more about education and health services. I would suggest that this chapter of education be corrected in this material, because here under education only thinks that consumers should be educated about their rights and opportunities to protect their rights. I understand when it comes to the fact that the area where consumer rights should be protected is listed under a regular number of five educations, that it is thought of the possibility that consumers get a service of education but not only about their rights to protect their rights as a consumer but also about the system of education, and that I must say, for example, that we put ourselves in the position of one parent and ask ourselves a question so that one parent can protect their child's right to primary education or the right of their child to secondary education. He could if the basic, or secondary education rights were defined. Unfortunately, today we do not have this right in any way defined, except that we have it defined, for example, that basic school education is mandatory and free of charge, and even that it is free is not defined in any way, because often children in primary schools have to ask their parents to bring money for some of the things that are part of the curriculum. However, it is not defined, in no way defined the conditions in which children will be educated in primary and secondary education, and now we will say in the basic which is mandatory, so whether or not there will be any classrooms. No standards are defined to maintain these classrooms, not a whole set of others are defined, the equipment that is required to be in these classrooms. They are not defined how the issue of water and other school - related things will be addressed. We are therefore in a situation today that in no way can it achieve the protection of its rights to the education of its child because it is simply for the state to move to define the standards of primary and secondary education. I would ask the promoter that, therefore, in this chapter on education not only treat it as an area of education on consumer rights but rather define it simply as an area of education and to oblige the Government to define standards of education in the Republic of Croatia during this period, so in 2005-2006. So it defines whether in the Republic of Croatia and in which time will be spent in primary education in one shift, how many students are allowed to be in a primary school, to define classroom maintenance standards, to define standards of equipping these classrooms, to define at all what this means for free education. So whether this applies to textbooks and, for example, school supplies or only to the fact that students do not have to pay teachers and the space in which this is happening because according to this principle, secondary education is certainly free. According to this principle, it is free and part of higher education among students who are educated on the burden of the Ministry of Science. Equally, not exactly the same, but you have a similar situation with health services. So, today, we have passed a recent Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, however, we have not defined either the HZZO or the Ministry of Health defined which of these rights and which services patients from their basic health insurance have. So today it turns out that indeed any patient with health insurance, basic health insurance, can achieve all the health services provided in the Republic of Croatia at any health institution. We're aware that it's simply not because you can't do all the services first because there's a whole series of obstacles. Secondly, it is quite certain that you cannot achieve them in your place, you cannot achieve them within the deadlines that you would like or should achieve them, etc., etc. Therefore, I think that this area of health care should also be complemented by the government's obligation to provide, within a reasonable period of time or by the Health Insurance Office, that, within a maximum period of time, a basket of health services will be delivered to basic health insurance and then ensure that every patient, or any citizen of the Republic of Croatia, within the prescribed and agreed deadlines, can achieve that health care service. And finally, a few words about public services. Unfortunately, in the debate of some colleagues, local self - administration has been said to do something to prevent citizens from exercising the right to one of the public services, or to protect their rights. I must really say that local self-government units do as much as they can to ensure the possibility of using some of the public services. But you will allow, it is difficult in the county where 27% of the availability on the public water supply system is to ensure that consumers are able to join the public water line. It is difficult to provide consumers with the possibility, the security of gas delivery if you get the information, your utility gets the information that because of the low winter temperatures, there will be a reduction in gas delivery. For example, here a unit of local self-government is obliged to ensure the safety of gas delivery, and on the other hand, a gas distributor, i.e. a gas supplier in this case INA is not obliged to ensure, regardless of the conditions, therefore, even when the temperatures are low, that it will ensure the safety of gas delivery. And finally, I want to say that greater consumer protection, especially with goods, will result in protecting domestic production because today we are in a situation where domestic producers have high quality and well-produced products and protect consumers when they offer these products to consumers and that importers import goods that do not meet in any way the needs of consumers in the Republic of Croatia. Even what colleagues have said, nor has the goods been declared, it is before the end of time. Then of course the price is lower and of course the consumers, especially those who are poor material status, buy cheaper products, but it does not just go to the heart of their health and their standard. It also goes to ustrp domestic production because domestic producers are then not in a situation to fight with their quality, and then with low-quality products, questionable quality and short-term life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32108	Thank you very much. It's my dear colleague, Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32109	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here, let me briefly refer to the proposal for a national consumer protection programme for the period ahead in 2005 to 2006. A lot of things have been said, so I'm going to focus on just one narrow segment of that problem that I think would be good to get rid of as soon as possible. In fact, we all agree that the basic, therefore, intensity of the National Consumer Protection Programme is in that very sense, therefore, that these same consumers for what they pay first get quality, therefore, goods that they think and buy. But unfortunately, in our market, it also happens that our consumers, some of our consumers, get nothing or get nothing for what they pay. What exactly am I thinking about? Here, just these days I received a memo, an initiative from Bukovec in the municipality of Selnica in Međimurje County. It is similar in some other places in Međimurje County which are located along the border with Slovenia, and is similar in some other counties such as Istria, Karlovac, Primorje-goranska. Namely, what it's about. Well it is that some places, some settlements along that border due to the configuration of the ground have no quality or no reception of Croatian television at all. So, at the same time they're getting paid, they've got bills to pay for the tv fee. So here I was also approached by a gentleman who received a court notice for the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th months of 2004. So the cost of this fee itself is 248 kuna, the cost of the notice is 124 kuna, so now he has to pay for it all, or it will come to an end on his property. He warns, therefore, that during last year he had very weak or almost had no reception of Croatian television, but he and his neighbours and locals from neighbouring villages had to monitor the reception of Slovenian television. So it's like they're not in Croatia, but they're in Slovenia. I don't think this should happen in the future, that according to this National Programme proposal, this problem must be resolved more intensively because it is a large number of our people who must, therefore, pay, and for these same money they don't actually get what they should get. Here to remind, therefore, that what it says in the program of those responsible, therefore, for the reception of that signal. It's "Transmitters and Connections." Therefore, the "Transmitter and Connection" programme states that with this business, "transmitters and links" must ensure the performance of functions and tasks that are partly defined by legislation, with the achievement of the highest level of satisfaction of users, business partners, employees and all stakeholders. So we see that in this case it didn't happen and that here, therefore, some interested parties are seriously damaged, so hopefully, in this period, I hope that, in this year's intervention, therefore, all the bodies formed by law will solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32110	Thank you very much. I would like to ask State Secretary Vladimir Vrankovic for, if you like, a final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32111	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to thank all the debaters for their quality suggestions. I mean, I'd like a lot of discussion was in the direction of the operationalization of the law itself, but what makes me happy is that everyone agreed that this is one solid legal basis as well as one first document as such and normally that it is above all of us together to further perfect this document in order to finalise, I think, in order to continuously improve consumer protection which is as such and intended. Normally for the success of the whole project, let us call it so, not only is the government in charge but consumers themselves as such are in charge, all participants must play their part. So, perhaps in our presentation, we have been overly emphasising this approximation to the European Union as one of the key elements of the creation of this document, however, we have actually done a great deal to achieve the ultimate goal of meeting the fundamental assumptions of consumer protection, so we have included all relevant factors that can help us with the advice. Normally, as I said at the beginning, the elements of this discussion will surely find places in our working documents, and in making the following document will certainly contribute to its better quality content. Normally on the implementation of this national programme, we will see after a year when we are obliged to report to this House. I thank you once again for having received this document well and I hope that it will be adopted as such and that we will continue to work on it in its quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32112	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are going to continue the session and vote on the part of the points discussed during this session. Please first, let's determine the quorum with the keys. The result? 94 so far has been identified by a representative and a representative. We've got a quorum, so let's go to the vote. 1. Proposal for a national consumer protection programme for 2005 to 2006 The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a national programme. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 98 votes for, 4 abstentions and 1 against the adoption of the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2005 to 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32115	Here, I'm glad that this, dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I must say that I'm glad that these two proposals are united, I must admit that I didn't expect to, I was also preparing to speak on behalf of the club. As far as the IDS Club is concerned, I'd like to speak later, Mr. President, we'd like to leave it to the government's representative to give the opening letter, perhaps the representative of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, who would then explain this proposal. I applied on behalf of the Club, but we support a united debate in any case as a representative of the Committee because the Committee has reached a conclusion on such a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32116	Okay, thank you very much. Then go ahead, Secretary of State, Mr. Breglec. A debate on the law on courier services and on the amendment of the postal law has been brought together.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32117	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary representatives of apologies for a few minutes of delay in the introduction itself and allow me to present what is most important and in the shortest lines what needs to be said regarding the adoption of amendments and the addition of the postal law. Since a united debate is being held on the adoption of the Courier Services Act, I'm going to say a few sentences in the end. So these amendments and additions to the Law were created in the environments following the basic law adopted on 29. Ten. In 2003, when a special conclusion was reached in the same day and at the same session when the law was passed in this House which obliged the government to refer within 60 days to the government's procedure, a bill defining the area of courier services. At the beginning of last year, the government established a bill but not a proposal for a Law on Courier Services since it estimated that there was no need for such a proposal, the Government laid down a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Post, which, in accordance with the conclusion, is appropriate for the area of courier services. In this way, the Government decided primarily on the fact that no Member State of the European Union has a specific law on courier services as a first and second because of the fact that courier services are one of the postal services and that there is no reason or argument that any type of postal service is defined by a law special to that basic law defining all postal services. The European practice speaks in this area as follows. One good part of the European Union countries does not have a defined area of courier services at all and one part of the countries such as Portugal, Hungary, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Slovakia have the same thing as the Croatian area of courier services defined under the Post Code. Basic things related to this amendment and the addition of the law can be summarised in the following. They more precisely determine the area of courier services, avoiding the ambiguities that arise in the current law, in the application of the current law on the ground. It then decreases the area of universal postal services, which means that for several explicit services that were previously defined as universal now are no longer. In other words, this means that these services are no longer required to obtain a licence but can be carried out on the basis of the application. So in that part of this amendment and the addition of the law go absolutely in the direction of liberalisation. The definition of courier services in Article 14 which is completely changed contains approximately, I will not convince what it contains in terms of what it says, but only briefly say that this formulation, which is now proposed by amendments to the law, is more liberal than those that have been so far. I can explain it the following way. There is an obligation to provide courier services in a technological process, which was also the request and suggestion of courier companies operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and there are 9 at this time. It is also permitted to make explicit use of public transport in carrying out the activities of couriers' companies, which so far has not been done. So, even in that definition, apart from being much clearer, there are undoubtedly elements of a more liberal approach and clearer definitions of courier services. What I think is, let's just have two more basic technical, two technical explanations in, on what else this law is about, amendments to the law. These amendments to the laws increase the powers of the postal inspector and are defined, the term postal service provider is excluded, and the notion of a legal person who performs postal services is an important difference, and that is why in several places these two concepts have been replaced, because in law enforcement could not actually sanction someone who is not registered as a postal service provider, which is an even worse offense, because he was actually doing these jobs and without the basic paper. With these changes, so that conditionally said hole in the cloth. Also in criminal provisions, it is possible to impose a ban on activities from three months to two years for serious violations, just like I said before. What's most important in my opinion is that you don't have an explanation, and it can be planted in the next one. These amendments and additions to the Post Law do not change more significantly, and in no more rigid way do not define the current relations on the postal market, the current powers of the Croatian Post Offices or the current modes of work of courier companies. So, this law neither extends the monopoly nor is it intruding, nor is any of those things that have been in the media in the last months completely misrepresented defined by this Law, by these amendments to the Law. These amendments to the laws clarify, clarify and appear to be implementing provisions of the current law. And that's the only truth, the truth doesn't exist two, there aren't two possible ways of solving, so there can be only one, and that truth is contained in these amendments to the Law on Mail. It's important to say next. The mail works according to the principle of solidarity. Croatian Post Office as a public operator, it is mandatory to perform a certain level of services we call universal services in the area, throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And where it's worth it and where it's not worth it. The Croatian Post Office is obliged to provide these services to 445 offices located on islands or in areas of special state concern. It is also required to perform these services in 967 offices that bring a minus compared to 191 offices that bring plus according to the 2003 data at the end of the 12th month. By liberalising which would be an absolute rarity at this time in Europe and by removing the reserved area of 100 grams which is not a proposal of this Law, but is not acceptable at all, it would be placed by a public operator in the position that he must primarily take account of the rationality of business, of his plus or minus at the end of the year, which would logically and consequently put him in a position to approach the closure of those of his most difficult, i.e. offices that bring the greatest minus. This would specifically mean a very likely necessary rationalisation of the number of offices, which would probably mean abolishing the postal service in places primarily of rural character where it is precisely one of the rare and often the only instrument of state action in the area. Therefore, this Law is not adopted because of some obsolescence or because of some desire to stick to someone’s monopoly. It is not brought either because of the interest of the workers of the Croatian Post Office exclusively, because they are not a priority. It is brought in because of several hundred thousand Croatian citizens, who in rural areas would above all not apply this rule, if this system could not be maintained without this basic service. That's the real reason, and I can give you more specific information today on any question. So I ask you, regardless of the media pressures that were mostly incorrect, which were mostly unilateral and biased, about motives perhaps for someone else's reason because of this approach and absolute objectivity. But I ask you, indeed, to take into account the facts as part of this debate that is united. As far as the proposal of the Courier Services Act is concerned, just one sentence. It goes in the opposite direction, it goes in the direction of introducing dualism, defining a service that is defined as reserved as couriers, which would open up the possibility that courier companies "carry up to 100 grams", which is exclusively the public operator's sole obligation. Through such a reservation, the public operator is allowed to accumulate income from one side, and to cover losses in all those areas I spoke about earlier, and this is the basic principle of solidarity that would completely collapse with that principle and that I am not now repeating the possible scenario already said. Here's your thanks, and I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32118	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, the honourable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32119	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Here is the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships came to the initiative of the Croatian Employers' Association of Initiatives to launch a law, a legislative proposal that should have seen a bright day almost a year ago. Because of Article 65 of the Treaty on the Mail law, P.Z.E. 780 was reached in this House in the conclusion that within 60 days, a bill on courier services would be sent to this Parliament. Here, a year has passed, the ministry has not sent one such proposal to this day but has produced 17 articles amending and supplementing the Law on Mail, although the explicit in Article 65 states that Article 14 which regulates courier services remains in force until the entry into force of the Law on Courier Services. Therefore, it was concluded by that time that a special Courier Service Act or services would be adopted, and therefore this argument by the Secretary of State may be in conflict with this Article 65. I am pleased that there is a united debate where we will face arguments about the Law on Courier Services and amendments and additions to the Law on Mail. In my view, it is a well-used possibility that the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships should be the pronoun of one such law, and I think that so on courier services, one law is not diametrically contrary to what the Secretary of State claims because it actually regulates two different things. Here, I have taken out what the directive means post office service and here it is considered to be a service of reception, transfer and handing over letters and packages while the courier service is considered a service of collecting, transferring and delivering letters and packages. That is why we believe it is good that this is particularly regulated and that there is no protection of the monopoly of the Croatian Post Office. In some ways, this law also harmonizes with the European Union while the Law on Postes has lost its letter E where it is to be regulated with the European Union. We think that this Courier Services Act is a good basis for a competition and as far as principles are concerned, let's say subsidiarity and cost-covering and in rural areas I think that's how all businesses work. Those who make more money somewhere are certain to put their money where they earn less and rural areas in the Republic of Croatia have 5%. Here, I'll talk to you later on on behalf of the club and maybe it's just for painting in some way to distinguish the Law on courier services or amendments and mail supplements. I read in the paper the other day an interesting thesis where mail is compared to public transport and courier services with taxi service, so we can't subscribe to courier services under the fact that postal services are. Here, so much for the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32120	Thank you very much. Legislative, Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? We got the report practically. The Committee on European Integration? I'm opening a debate. The club of HSP MPs, the respected representative of Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32121	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, gentlemen of the Ministry! This Proposal for a Law on Mail which we read here in a package with the Proposal of the Law on Courier Services is trying to change the existing state but we believe that it does not work the right way. We are not in favour of Croatia having to be quite original in everything, and ultimately, the existing 100 grams limit on the transport of shipments is common in other European countries. In Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands is reserved by mass, so standard letters for mail, but regardless of all this together, it is crystal clear that Croatia must move forward with trends present on the European postal market. The proposed amendments and additions to the law will result in a monopoly on the distribution of consignors up to 100 grams not only in the field of universal postal service, but in its courier service HP express will receive a privileged market position. That's actually what this is about. So we have the same situation that we have in the market for telecommunications services where we have Croatian telecoms i.e. Deutsche Telekom has its own Internet company and rents its optical personnel to other Internet companies. So this is really inadmissible and beyond European regulations. So the one who has the basic resource must have it but at the same time cannot be the provider of the services used by that resource. So, analog to that is here. If the post office was dealing with postal services and couriers' services, the thing would be quite clear. For us it is extremely strange and unacceptable that the post office also has a monopoly on the distribution of senders up to 100 grams than that all expensive mail through its HP express has a privileged market position, i.e. that mail dominates its infrastructure and in the area of courier services and, of course, in the area of postal services. Namely, HP and HP express with this law receive a monopoly and in the field of courier delivery of shipments up to 100 grams and there is a fundamental problem of this law. Other couriers can only perform such services at a three-time higher price which puts them in an absolutely unequal position and raises their existence. So, we do not want to question the existence of Croatian mail, but we believe that there should be a clear distinction between what is business and not really unnecessary monopoly, a legal monopoly that is completely unnecessary. The definition of courier services in the Law on Postage as postal services is contrary to European practice and the spread of HP monopoly outside the universal postal service area is contrary to the practice of the European Union. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council defines postal services as collection, sorting, transport and delivery services of postal consignors in which the acquisition is to be defined as the takeover of postal mail at the Transitional Points i.e. physical facilities including these mailboxes provided to the public on public roads or in the rooms of universal service providers where users can submit postal services to a public postal network. From this definition of postal service, it is clear that courier service is not a postal service and we find it really strange that a Government that swears on European integration, which approaches the harmonisation of its legislation with European standards, does not follow this Directive of the European Council. The courier service is a service for the collection, transfer and delivery of shipments and packages with various added value options in the course of the delivery, which includes the collection of shipments and packages exclusively at the sender's address. So it should be put into the law clearly. Then things will be perfectly clear. No country in the European Union has identified these two services and defined them as provided for in this Mail Act. Although the promoters claim that some EU member states regulate the courier service as a postal service. For example, Germany, Belgium or Finland. That is not true because the laws of those countries do not define courier service as postal. National postal operators in the European Union have a monopoly in postal transport for consignments of certain... Classes exclusively for universal postal service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The service of collection, transfer and delivery of consignors and parcels from the address of the client with various added value options under delivery is a courier service. And in European practice, this is not a universal postal service and under the European Union directive cannot be reserved only for the national postal operator, in this case for Croatian mail or for HP express. Thus, such a law would extend the postal monopoly to a service that has been liberalised so far, and the adoption of this law would be contrary to European Union guidelines and recommended market liberalisation. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of whether we are going to start negotiations with the European Union or not in Croatia, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is in force. As a party, we've been bitching a lot about his content, but when he's in effect, then we have to stick to him to the last point and stick to the point. Among other things, it says that services already liberalised cannot be further monopolized. Crystally clear that in 2006, it comes across the Union, and this comes from our Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the full liberalisation of all public services, which is why it is extremely strange to go through this again monopolization. The courier services are liberalized, and this law tries to monopolize them. So we're not questioning the universal postal service here again. The adoption of a law identifying two types of services in a way that restricts one of them is the opposite of the principles set out in the Croatian Agreement with the WTO. I repeat: we weren't happy with it, but when it's in effect, let's stick to it. From all of this HSP states that Croatia's mail should not be challenged by the right to monopoly, to shipments of up to 100 grams relating to universal postal services. In other European countries, national postal operators also have a monopoly on the distribution of senders to a certain weight, but exclusively in the area of universal postal service. Not within the courier service. Since the courier service is not defined anywhere in Europe as postal it is clear that this monopoly cannot and must not apply to the provision of courier services. So things are completely clear and for these reasons HSP cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32122	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32123	At the beginning of his presentation, counterpart Tadic said that HP has an absolute monopoly on services up to 100 grams. That's not true, and this law now wants to be regulated. What do we have on the Croatian market now? We have on the Croatian market that one of these so-called The courier services are, on purpose, spoken by courier services, without any public tender, carrying the shipments of the Municipal Court in Zagreb, Privredne banka in Zagreb, Zagreb Banka, Plinare, Cleanness, HEP, Water supply and so on. I am for these courier services to be equal with the Croatian Post Office and to carry them both in Zagreb and in all major cities, in Osijek, Rijeka and Split, but also to carry them to Žumberak, Banovina, Liku, Kordun, Gorski Kotar, islands, Dalmatia Zagora and so on. It's a real market, and let's all go to the market and let them have all the same conditions, not like this. Well, we've seen these days protesting and how only one so-called. The courier service. What about the others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32124	Thank you. Club IDS, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32125	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad Mr. Loncar came forward because we can say that's the opinion of a member of the Post's Supervisory Board so we know what we're talking about. Here I'm talking in front of the club at the IDS, the IDS who can't support this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mail Act. In the IDS, we primarily advocate that laws must be respected in Croatia. And this proposal on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Post Office of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development makes us representatives not to respect the Croatian laws that we ourselves have passed, and this relationship of the Ministry can be said to be the least irresponsible. What kind of message can we send to our citizens when only the Ministry doesn't respect the laws and forces the terrorists to disobey the laws? Well, dear citizens, if we don't comply with our own laws, you don't have to obey the laws because we're not the rule of law. Namely, what's this about? Mail law, P.Z.E. In 2003, 780, which was voted in this Croatian Parliament, in its article 14 regulated partial courier services and in Article 65, said that this Article 14 would be in force until the Law on Courier Services was passed. There we can read from Article 65 of that Law. The second conclusion also obliged the Government to draw up the Proposed Law on Courier Services within 60 days, and since then it has been more than a year and the Ministry has not drafted the Law on Courier Services, but has already for more than a year devised 17 articles Amendments and additions to the postal law. When the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships accepted the initiative of the Croatian Employers' Association and gave the Post Law procedure only then the amendment and addition of the postal law appeared. We must say that the Law on Mail now bears the mark or amendment of the P.Z. 233. It is evident that somewhere the letter E was lost, as was the case under the basic law, and is in line with the alleged European legislation. We are proposed to pass laws which, of course, are in collegiate with other applicable laws, such as the Company Act and the National Classification of Activities. In the very creation of this proposal, amendments and additions to the postal law were not followed by any other norms and provisions. All laws which comply with the European Union under the Government's decision must have a parallel display of coordination. Here in these changes and additions, I don't see it. Opinions and manifestations of other ministries such as The European Integration Ministry, which calls for the National Classification of Activities, warns of commitments undertaken by joining the World Trade Organisation that it will not impose restrictions on courier services. The justice ministry warns and suggests that the provision of judicial letters is not only in the exclusive competences of the public operator. The Ministry of Finance confirms the fact that Croatia's mail earns profits and receives budget funds. All of this may in some way surprise us when we know that the promoter is the formal Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Development and it is signifying that it defends the monopoly status of Croatian mail. Because then how to explain that instead of a representative of the ministry coming to the HDZ Club to explain the law, representatives from the Croatian Post Office came. We at the IDS Club are proposing and we thank God here and we have achieved a united debate and we also feel that we should remove urgency from one law and another because there are many inexplicable and controversial provisions. We also warn that on 1 February 2005, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement entered into force and that we must adhere to the signed one, i.e. that after that date we can no longer pass laws that are more restrictive or discriminatory. This is Articles 56 and 57 of that Agreement. As far as I am aware, the Ministry of European Integration has also asked all ministries to deliver all the laws that still need to be brought into line with European Union legislation, and therefore we think that we should wait for that screening. I mentioned earlier that the post office is making a profit. In addition to the Ministry of Finance which was apparent, I received confirmation from the Office for Business Research, which says that Croatia is among the top 10 best companies of new value in 2003. So if we're going to do it precisely, it's in fourth place. And according to the Secretary of State on the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications Croatia's post office in 2004 is 70 million kuna in losses. What does that mean to me? In 2003, winning and back in 2004. Well, then it certainly means something to me. If only a year had brought Croatia's mail to a beggar's stick and someone would have had to answer for it, but not for it, but for that same office for business research, Croatia's post office is only 352 places by productivity, which would mean that there are too many people in that post or that these people are underworking. The business of Croatian mail would be much to talk about because it is certainly difficult to adapt to the competition when some are protected as bearlike bears and some countries are even worse than the stepmother. According to examples from Slovenia, where postage stamps cost kuna and 40, with us the cheapest brand is 2 kunas and 30. In addition to this financial part, it is signifiable, of course, as Tadic used to say, the favoring of Croatian mail to HP express, means that part of the mail that deals with courier services, and in fact is the daughter of the Croatian Post and they operate under their protection and their material resources. On post offices in rural areas and in islands, that would be the same thing to talk about. I have an example of a post office that is magnificently arranged in the marble, but in the middle of the season it only works 7 hours, 9-12 and 15-19. And so that's 7 hours, and the rural areas in Croatia have 5%. So in 95% of the end, the same Croatian post office has meaning in cities and where profits can be achieved and 5% can not be achieved. It was found to be total turnover of 1 and a half billion kuna. From this traffic, the post office has 108 million kuna profits. And that kind of profit doesn't have any state-owned companies. The question is whether there's another company like Coca Cola or HT. I believe that you and we at the IDS Club have received materials about the conflict of interest of all who participated in the creation of the Post Law. Is it an accident or not, but in the hands of HSLS is the whole post office that is actually next to... Management of HSLS personnel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although criminal charges have been filed against some of the leaders, it seems to me that this is the price that the ruling must pay for these two hands in this Croatian Parliament. The secretary of state certainly cannot sit on the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Post, although he argues that the government puts people in such places out of trust that I would disagree with. If we just go back a little bit, and Mrs. Holjevac has been removed from the same kind of conflict of interest, let's say, but she worked in another company, or the supervisory board, which was also in conflict with the ministry of interest. I can only support that because in 2003 when the Law on Postes was passed, HSLS defended the thesis and that it should be about the competition and courier services that are not postal services. I wonder what changed at HSLS if they had changed their attitude by 180 degrees. That's why we in IDS cannot accept such rigid legal solutions that suppress the competition, and this is an obvious example that all of this is done so that someone can sell a monopolitical company, of course, to those who make it possible, will certainly have a beautiful reward. We can really expect anything from this ministry. They don't care what our citizens want or don't want and how to make life easier for their citizens. Everything adapts to the Ministry itself or individuals in it. All the biggest affairs that were in Croatia came from the ministry, from Bechtella via Match Telekom to the fact that the minister does not want to regulate the tariff of phone impulses legally, but rather wants to settle it with a rule that should only be one accompanying document of the law. The law itself does not want to define precisely what business documentation is. He doesn't want to define what's postal or what's courier service. It wants to be re-determined from the inexplicable provisions that could be interpreted in various ways and for which no one would ultimately be held accountable. It is important to stress that, unlike us, Europe has all of this defined, so it can be said that in the European Union Directive, transport services cannot be reserved for business documentation. What is important is to say when defining postal and courier services and where these two services differ. First by weight, second by content and third by method of collection and distribution. The postal service is reserved up to 100 grams but for individual shipments, postcards and postcards. The postal service in the European Union Directive is considered to be a reception, transfer and delivery service of letters and packages, and the courier service is considered to be a service for the collection, transfer and delivery of letters from the package. From all of this, it is a key difference but not in the weight of letters as much as in the way in which the shipment is taken over. In the postal service it is that you yourself must go to the post office, submit a letter or buy a postmark and throw a letter into the mailbox. Unlike mail, couriers have no stamps, no mailboxes or post office but must go to the address of the sender. In the end, when the post office set it up, of course, with the help of the restful ministry, it's not enough, but the Ministry must also have its own control inspection. All that stuff on the system, cadiya's suing you, cadiya's suing you. So that service inspections, in order not to be misused, should be proposed to be an independent body under the authority of the Ministry of Economy. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32126	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32127	A colleague of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac said, quote: "We are in the IDS for the absolute need to respect the laws," a quote concluded. Well, I'm in favour of respecting the laws just from this presentation of yours, I absolutely didn't realize what IDS stands for. Well, I'll tell you now, and I was just talking. So we have the confidentiality of the data, how they keep the secret of the courier's office's data. And we were in the previous assembly of the Parliament while you were in that government tossing out your ID card a unique birth number just like that. ... Wait a minute, please don't interrupt me because I'm running out of time. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. President, allow me, I'm running out of time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32128	But fellow Lonchart, correct the incorrect allegations...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32129	Well, no, I'm correcting an incorrect quote and explaining what this inaccuracy is about. Therefore, I advocate the market, I advocate that all courier services be on the market in the whole of Croatia as well as in the Croatian Post Office. As I said earlier, they also carry their services to Banovina, Kordun, Lika, islands, etc., etc., not to us as it is now. And something else in this argument, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32130	He can't, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32131	They took it from me, but I have to explain it...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32132	Don't, so you can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32133	It would be very good to find out how...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32134	You'll be in touch later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32135	Well, no, but I think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32136	Yes, and respected Vice President Djurdja Adlesic too...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32137	Well, Mr. President, you didn't, so he took 20 seconds away from me. Well, don't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32138	Well, you fixed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32139	So be equal to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32140	I'm the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32141	Thanks a lot, buddy. Mr. President, I will with special pleasure correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32142	Wait a minute, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32143	You can start measuring my time now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32144	Time again?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32145	Yes, please. Mr. President, I will be happy to correct the incorrect allegations of my colleague, Dorothy. I guess it's about ignorance, I don't think it was anything else. In fact, Mr. Breglec, as State Secretary, has been on the Supervisory Board since the 5th month, and in this form, the law entered the procedure 2 months earlier. Thus, he could not participate in the Law. You should know that, of course. Also something you should know as someone who deals with politics because if it's not the secretary of state who can write the laws but only defend them, then call the government, call the prime minister or call the minister. That would put civil courage on it, but also correctness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32146	And the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32147	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct a quote from a colleague who claims there are only 5% rural areas in Croatia. I mean, if we know this country well, then we know that 80% of rural areas may actually be all around a few cities concentrated in population. Which clearly increases the cost of Croatian postage, and we saw that even, we heard today's exhibitions, 967 post offices work with a minus, and only 191 with a plus.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32148	Thank you. HDZ club, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32149	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail with the Final Proposal of the Law on Post which the Proposer intends to finally introduce order on the national postal service market. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community considers that the adoption of this Law regulates this area in accordance with modern European norms and standards of the European Union countries. The adoption of the Law on Postes is one of the activities the Republic of Croatia has taken to comply with its own legislation with European Union legislation. The postal law is fully in line with the provisions of the European Union relating to the provision of postal services. All Member States of the European Union as well as the Member States intending to become obliged to comply with their legislation with the legislation and provisions of the European Union. The postal law stipulates that other legal persons under the conditions prescribed by the Law may also be engaged in postal services other than Croatian postal services. Therefore, the possibility of competition with Croatia's post office has been opened which ceases to be in a monopolistic position. In this way, it was achieved that Croatia's post office, like all other postal service providers, was forced by increased quality and proper price policy to fight for its position on the market. In addition, it is also regulated to provide courier services with an open and additional possibility of expanding the business to all service providers. The concept of universal services provides for a specific European Union and thus the Law on Posting of a group of services for which the service provider is required to ensure that it is available throughout the territory of the State, to all legal and physical persons. Under the same conditions, the right to provide universal services shall be subject to all legal persons who receive an appropriate authorisation from the Postal Service Council. Croatian mail has the right and obligation to perform all universal services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia while other service providers can be defined for the whole territory or only for certain areas of territory that are more financially profitable to them. One part of the universal service relating to written shipments up to 100 g,... The post office of up to 100 years, postal and fast public instructions and letters by administrative procedure can only be made by Croatian mail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These services are called reserved services. This manner of regulation of reserved services shall be harmonised with the provisions of the European Union and the legislative regulations of the Member States of the European Union. The purpose of the reserved services is in fact to preserve the universal service, i.e. to prevent the placing of the inhabitants of rural and less populated areas and a more unfavourable position compared to the inhabitants of large cities. This prevents it from carrying a wolf in rural areas and underdeveloped areas of undeveloped mail. The reservation of one part of services allows service providers to focus their business on cities where the cost of providing services is far less than the cost in the less populated areas. In order for services under the same conditions and at the same cost of costing to users to be provided throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to bring into line profits achieved in areas where costs are lower with losses achieved in areas where the costs of performing the structure are significantly higher. Prices for making postal services do not bring in Croatian mail, but are brought by the Post Office Council, which allows for the creation of extra profits in this area. Such administrative pricing inevitably affects the business of the Croatian Post Office which is obliged to subscribe any losses in the area of reserved services from income from other services located on the market and for which the rules of the competition apply. It follows from the above that the existence of reserved services does not put Croatia's mail in a preferential position on the market, especially with regard to its obligation to perform, at the same price and under the same conditions, a service where unit costs are lower and in rural areas where these costs are several times higher than the price defined. The provision of services under the same conditions for all in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is the principle of mail operations since 1840. Without a group of reserved services, it would come under a considerable question. The Law on Postes and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postes also regulated the question of courier services. As defined by the term courier service when defining the concept of courier service, a clear separation of courier services from other postal services has been achieved, with the aim of preventing the renaming of universal services to courier services. The term renaming shall include individual postal service providers in order to avoid the obligation to obtain a universal postal service authorisation prescribed in Article 31. The mail law. For which it is necessary to pay a certain fee to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the renaming of the universal service in the courier is disrupted by the equality of users, i.e. the inhabitants of rural areas are placed in a more unfavourable position than the inhabitants of the urban parts of the Republic of Croatia. Some postal service providers try to rename letters to other types of senders and services, and services in order to download part of reserved postal services and make large profits. Thus, the concept of the exchange of non-reserved documents, identifying the written shipments containing accounts, the execution of banks and similar materials, appears. However, the Post Law defines the exchange of documents as a service in which a common user service provider rents space and other means of mutual exchange of consignors. It is also trying to determine whether the consignment can be considered a letter or not, according to the contents of the consignment. However, the rules on general conditions for the provision of postal services which has been adopted under the Postal Act and apply to all postal service providers in the Republic of Croatia are laid down that the letter, the written consignment containing the written statement in the closed box, is without the marked value. These other consignments which meet the conditions provided for in the letter, although they do not contain a written statement. In addition, the content of the consignment is subject to the provisions of the Mail Act which guarantee the confidentiality of the consignors, so the classification of the consignors by content is totally unacceptable. The border of reserved services for a public operator has been significantly reduced already in the existing Mail Act. From the previous 2,000 grams to 100 grams of the weight of the shipment, which is at the lower limit of European standards. Croatia's post office already operates in market conditions, competition space has enough and without breaking the law, which proves an example of a number of courier companies that are not engaged in aggressive lobbying but their own business, and have no objections to the proposed amendments and additions to the law. The freedom of entrepreneurship in this business and competition is certainly not a mess and lawlessness on the national postal market, but rather something quite different that must be regulated by this Law, and this Law must be adopted in order to be respected. Therefore, it is finally time to end this situation already and to prescribe rules that will have to be followed by all Croatian citizens. Therefore, the unreserved Club of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this Law, which includes those items that speak of what courier services are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32150	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS colleague Srecko Ferenčak. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32151	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. In November 2003, a new Law on Mail was adopted, and it is an urgent procedure to comply with European legislation. And in which law is defined courier service as a type of postal service. Such a decision has caused a lot of controversy, the resulting amendment being sent from seven parliamentary parties and the Legislative Committee, requiring the definition of courier services to be exempted from the Mail Act. This proposal, and this is precisely why I am amazed by this government, because it was the representatives of both HDZ and HSLS who addressed these amendments and fought for the free market and the rights of entrepreneurs. I don't know what's changed in that field now? The result of these requirements is the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is drafting a bill to regulate relations in the field of courier services. Such a conclusion by the Parliament is absolutely justified, as the Republic of Croatia as a member of the WTO has taken the obligation not to take any restrictions on the provision of courier services. Also, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, Croatia has committed not to adopt more restrictive measures and laws than existing ones and thus to allow a monopoly on the free market and to prevent a fair competition as we know this agreement has been in force since 1.2 this year. What do we get from this proposal of the Law on Postage Services? On the contrary. The government does not respect the obligation imposed by the Parliament to draft the Law on Courier Services, which the government is obliged to respect. So to whom does the Government answer for his work and whose conclusions must he respect and execute, if not parliamentary? As it is possible that the government does not respect the Parliament's decision, rather than proposing amendments to the Law on Postes exemption from courier services, it proposes even greater restrictions and identifies courier and postal services, which is contrary to the existing Croatian-European legislation. It is precisely this identification of two different services and a direct extension of monopoly to free market services, which is unsustainable and contrary to existing legislation. What does that mean in practical life? If we adopt such a proposal of the Law on Post Office, it will mean that postal inspectors will close all companies that are engaged in the free market in courier services and employ several thousand Croatian citizens, which are registered under Croatian laws and have been doing their activities normally and legally for almost 10 years. I hope that doesn't happen. Instead of preparing its facility for new market conditions, the post office and courier unions that are absolutely nothing to blame, that is, hiding their lack of knowledge and impotence. The EU Postal Directive does not describe the courier service and does not consider it a postal activity or a postal service. Similarly, our Ministry of European Integration has repeatedly warned the Government that this bill is not in line with European laws, which are why they are being adopted. However, no one listens to the European Integration Ministry. I guess that's why we're gonna cut him off, huh? Under the laws of the European Union, in the European Union in 2007... full liberalisation of postal services. And we would have destroyed several thousand jobs today. It's really amazing. I guess we want to clear someone's ground and make a monopoly position, so that Croatia's mail is easier to sell. It's probably someone's wish. Then I'll ask the workers of the Croatian Post Office how it will go, if that happens. In addition to this, they speak of strictly separate definitions of courier postal services of the United Nations, the World Trade Organisation and our national classifications of activities. So our Croatian national classification of the activity code 66/12 says: Courier services are services that are not public mail services at the collection, transport and delivery of letters and packages. Such a definition complies with all international standards and allows for the provision of such services on the free market without restriction. Just as all these companies did business under Croatian laws, we now want to make it impossible for them after so many years. To make things easier to understand, you need to explain the following... The postal service under the EU Directive is considered to be a reception, transfer and delivery service of written shipments and packages and the courier service is considered to be the collection of the transfer and delivery of written shipments and packages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear from this definition that the basic difference in the provision of these two services in the collection of shipments from the address of couriers, i.e. the reception of mailers in post offices or mailboxes through postage stamps made by postmen. All where in the world courier services are not considered post office. In this bill the Proposer wants to convince us that if we call a courier to come home to collect a shipment that weighs 101 grams, then it is a courier service, and if the shipment weighs 100 grams, then it is no longer a courier service and we have to carry it to the post because the courier is not allowed to collect and deliver it under this new law. This really has nothing to do with common sense or with any regulatory Croatian or European agreements that Croatia has signed. We propose an emergency procedure law because we need to bring it into line with European legislation and by everything that is stated here, we are doing exactly the opposite. Furthermore, the legislator proposes that the supervision of courier companies on the free market have postal inspectors which is contrary to the obligations we have signed in the Treaty with the World Trade Organisation and contrary to our existing legislation. The supervision of all companies on the free market must have a state inspectorate as a fully independent body in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy rather than a post as a directly interested entity. Moreover, in the light of this proposal for a law, there is also a delusion that is visible from the table submitted by the applicant to the Clubs of Representatives, which explains that other European countries have a monopoly and weight limit on letters and shipments, but that is simply not true. The monopoly in the provision of universal postal services refers only to the distribution of senders by universal postal time. And not on any form of courier service. The shipments up to 100 grams are reserved... operator when distributed by universal postal during i.e. By receiving e-mails through postage stamps or mailboxes or receipts in post offices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Proposing to amend and supplement the postal law on a weekly basis and on purpose, contrary to all laws, it identifies the collection service of consignments from the address of the customer with the service of reception so that both ways would be reserved only for the public operator or in this case for the HP Express, which means closing the market and extending the monopoly to services that are on the free market, which is unacceptable for colleagues. It says, watch this prank, point 31. The Rules of Procedure of the Bill, the reception of postal e-mails, is the takeover of postal e-mails and to the address of the consignor. So what's collecting if it's a reception? This kind of interventionism is known in totalitarian regimes when competition was banned by law and then the fruits of unemployment could be collected peacefully in a monopolitical position. If we add to this information that this bill works in the legal service of the Croatian Post Office, therefore, directly interested parties, then the black side of such an elimination and competition is even more pronounced. Well Croatian postal gentlemen have no one to be afraid of in the Croatian market nor are the workers of the Croatian Post Office threatened, their administration makes a fight between them and each other, those who run around in this snow and ice and carry packages and mail and... to cover your incompetence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Croatia's post office earned 108 million kuna in 2003. And if out of 12,000 people had a little bit more mailmen, only 3,000 postmen have 9,000 people doing something else, maybe that profit and that... He was a little bigger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's on the post office to organize a job like that. In addition, the Croatian Post Office has its own HR express courier service, which fights other couriers on the free market, which is fine. However, which note bene is financed from money obtained from monofilament services and which HP express should act completely separate from Croatian mail as an independent company and earn profits on the free market and be in a healthy and free competition. This is where the Croatian Post Office again violates the law and this is the Law on Mail Article 25 which says: Public operator must not subsidise from reserved services the postal services provided on the free market, therefore HP is financed from the money earned by the monopoly and we are breaking the law again and no one at all. But that is why the legislative proposal should destroy competition and make it impossible for all private couriers to work and extend their monopoly to services located on the free market. That's the simplest thing. We all swear to help Croatian entrepreneurs and small businesses, and here we simply destroy them by showing feathers. In my opinion, extremely unseen state internationalism as in the best totalitarian days. The club of HNS and PGS representatives will fight for the rights of Croatian entrepreneurs and small businessmen and will not support this Bill proposal until we get an answer to the following questions, so I ask the Secretary of State to write. First. This Regulation shall enter into The postal law clearly stands, the provision of Article 14 of this Act remains in force until the entry into force of the Courier Services Act. So it's a legal obligation for the government to pass the Law in courier services, so we're asking why the government doesn't. Secondly, why the government does not respect the obligation it received from the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on courier services. Third. Why the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament do not adhere to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that is signed and which is in force and which obliges us not to pass a more restrictive law than the existing ones. why we are in violation of Article 25. Directives of the European Union which say that the services which are liberalised cannot be further monopolised. Fourthly, why are we in the Parliament discussing a bill that is not in line with European legislation and why we do not respect the opinion of European integration, the European Integration Ministry, which has warned on many occasions. Why do we not respect the international commitment made to the WTO where the Republic of Croatia has committed itself not to, that it will strictly separate couriers from postal services and that there are no restrictions on courier services. Sixth. Why don't we set up a national classification of the activity that is a sublegal act of the Company Act. And the seven why we are discussing a legal proposal that is contrary to the Constitution's guaranteed rights in the free market match because with this bill, all the other participants put in an unequal position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32152	Thank you, dear colleague, please fellow Jarnjak, you are too loud. We have an expected correction of incorrect allegations, the first reported by MP Djakic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32153	Madam Vice-President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Ferenček where he claimed that Croatian, that the Croatian Post Office is doing nothing but arguing the workers of the Croatian Post Office with the couriers. That's not an exact quote! The Croatian Post Office is fighting on a liberalised postal service market as well. And it is not true that courier services must be a solution by a special law, but they can also be solved by this Law on Postages which is specified exactly what can be done and what cannot be done, because courier services are individuals who have avoided paying the tax to the State by renaming certain activities of their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32154	Thank you very much, colleague. The next one was the correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Šolic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32155	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's a correct quote from my colleague Ferenck. You said in your statement that it was in the interest of the promoter to remove 2,000 jobs, actually courier jobs. Mr. Ferenčak, I've been one of the employees of the Croatian Post Office for many years, and I can only tell you that it is not true for you. Reading this law is the truth and the fact that, it is precisely the proposal to introduce a single order in the field of postal services. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32156	Thank you very much, colleague. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32157	My colleague Ferenčak said literally about the courier services, and I quote, "The feather movement is destroying a little entrepreneurship." It is very interesting to say one prominent Croatian, Zagreb entrepreneur such as our colleague Ferenčak. So if that's how it is, I, unlike you, advocate that we have a market in the whole of Croatia. And now you explain to me how "City Express" came, whether it was a public tender or in any other way to carry mail from the Privredna banka and Zagreb banka, and especially the Municipal Court in Zagreb. Then it would be good to explain to this Parliament and the Croatian public how that the City of Zagreb concluded a contract with the "City Express" worth 60 million kuna under a very strange public competition. And you are if I am not mistaken in the City of Zagreb Assembly coalition partners. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32158	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. State Secretary Drazen Breglec also called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32159	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I drank water because this is going to take a while. First of all, I want to say the personal object of eight years of professional politics, I have never heard so many falses that I do not use the definition of Croatian spelling and the harder word I have heard here in this debate. Never in eight years following the Parliament has so much inaccuracy been said anywhere and especially in this House. I'll try to deny it, some can also prove it because I have written evidence here, and all that mattered was I said in my opening statement. I'm sorry there are no colleagues who have spoken them here, but I hope that some who have said it will remain until the end of this debate. At no time has a parliamentary representative said in any article, in which words, in which these amendments and amendments of the law give priority to the Croatian post office, not a single word in a specific article, have you not said in a concrete remark which the provision is abolished and which would be more stringent or contrary to the directives of the European Union. That wasn't said here. They're all over the place with the flat-rate and the untrue claims. It's here that you're making a lie like that. the spread of the Croatian Post Office's monopoly. The Croatian Post Office is not expanding, it was adopted in the 10th month in this House, defined as a 2003 Stogram Weight Census in the 10th month. In this law, I repeat once again the following are explained, the concepts are further clarified, both from the basic law and partly liberalising the area and courier services and the definition of universal services. That's true. And please, by the principle of "a hundred times a lie should become true" you want to create an impression in the Croatian public that this law brings some additional restrictions to ensure a monopoly, which is not true at all. And I'm absolutely throwing it away this way. Calling a courier. Please, I'm holding in my hand a memo from four prominent courier companies out of the nine who regularly filed an application from a December-month meeting in which I quote, a large four courier companies, "Let us finally express our support for this law governing the provision of postal services." It's a finished quote. These are not whatever companies, these are companies that are branches of major global companies, some of them have budgets bigger than the budget of the Republic of Croatia. DHL, UPS, Intime, Intereuropa Fair, Fedex for Rea Express for Fedex. So absolutely some of them take away your right to speak for them. If you don't believe it, I can hand you a second memo from a few days ago that was also delivered to our address which speaks of that no one, in one company, can speak on their behalf, and that's the courier company that filed the application. Gentlemen, you speak on behalf of imaginary business subjects. I'll tell you in the name of which you speak. You speak on behalf of business entities in the Republic of Croatia who were caught in a 2003 violation of the law that you brought to this House by some of you. Against whom they have filed these three criminal charges and who are now in panic when the holes they have been dragged into have been patched up. In their name you speak and that's the only truth. And I can show you and copy and transfer the position of couriers that support this law, there's a written record from the meeting, which, in fact, explicitly take away anyone. It was addressed to the public, to the media. Who published that? No one. But that's why every medium has published something quite the opposite. It would be interesting indeed to see for which media is also carried by a courier company certain mail and under what conditions and at what prices. It would be really interesting to see that. Then we'd get answers to the right questions. You mention, mention and mention the European Union directives. The European Union Directive 97/67 AIC of 97 years speaks of the implementation of gradual liberalisation in the European Union since 2006 by bringing the monopoly down to 50 grams and in 2009, the quote: "If this is appropriate, the full monopoly will be abolished." My colleagues used to say the opposite here. I can't say otherwise that if they know and have directives and say otherwise that then I'll be polite, they don't tell the truth. Let me remind you, we are not in the European Union, we do not even have negotiations at this time, and it is not in 2009. So that's three reasons why what you're saying, three reasons why you can't apply what you're saying. We've been working on the concepts of the ministry, we've got the Secretary of State wrong. Gentlemen, I am here on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted this proposal and referred it to the adoption of the Croatian Parliament. An integral part of the government is of course, one of the ministries is also the European Integration Ministry. Since so many times I have to read the opinion of the European Ministry of Integration only three, four sentences are here, so really judge whether I'm politely going to say, someone is telling the truth or maybe doing something else. I quote: "The opinion of the Ministry of European Integration. On the draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Post, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Ministry of European Integration has no objections as from its part-round. We thank you for your previous comments on the draft bill. We note that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Postage is not listed in the national adjustment programme for the European Union in 2004 as a regulation that complies with the acquiss of the European Union and therefore does not further align this legal area in the current year." Gentlemen, if you're reading the wrong facts, don't let the entire Croatian public hear you, then you're doing it somewhere in the culinary stories, you're doing it in the constituencies bar. Furthermore, when it comes to calling for the law, then I must make it more clear to you, perhaps, to present some evidence. Here they are. Neither in Croatia nor anywhere else where there is a reserved area is allowed for anyone other than a public operator to carry an invitation by accident to the secretary of state with the press of a company that is not... operator. You can't even get a card accidentally sent to the secretary of state, but it's not just the secretary of state, you have several hundred shipments on the table that are collected, which are equally sent against the law because they're not only lighter than 100 grams, they're easier than 20 grams and they're not allowed to do that and that's the essence of the problem. Someone's doing it, and they want to legalize it. By applying the 2003 law, the state said, not that gentlemen can't do that. Not with this law now. This law strengthens the instruments to prevent this illegal behavior, and when someone calls for a claim to acquired rights then it must actually be said the right thing to do, it calls for the abolition of the current illegal conduct and the whole point of this dispute is derived from it. It's also not true that mail makes a profit. Unfortunately, it's not true. This year, i.e. by the end of 2004, the post office will unfortunately have redness in the final statement, in 2003 you misquoted the amount, the mail was correct. But you misquoted the amount, it was $11 million. So in 2004, there will be a minus 135 million kuna. The vast majority of these minuses, around 125 million kuna, refer to claims brought against Croatian mail, which stem from workers' rights under violated agreements, or collective agreements. So the total result would still be minus.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32160	The secretary of state has run out of time to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32161	Then I'll conclude, if I may?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32162	You'll have to call back later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32163	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32164	We have a correction to an incorrect quote, Agent Ferenchuck. I'm going to beg you colleagues and colleagues, so we don't try to throw you out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32165	Well, I'd like to correct Mr. Secretary of State's incorrect allegations when he says no one has ever said where the monopoly is being introduced. I told the speaker that in this dictionary when the courier services were separated from the post office in relation to reception and collection, I made it clear and loud, and Mr. Secretary of State was tricking us with parliamentary agents in point 31 of the Rules of Procedure where he said that the reception of postal services is the takeover of postal services at the address of the consignors. So you're limiting couriers so they can't carry 100 grams of shipments anymore. So far, they've been able to do it because it was in the collection phase. One thing. And I ask you, Madam Vice President, to protect us from Mr. Breglec and his doctoring and saying that MPs lie and don't tell the truth and don't teach us the truth here, he came to listen to us and not to him, he has to answer our questions, it's his function here. He corresponds to the Croatian Parliament, not the Croatian Parliament to him. Furthermore, he says we are not in the European Union. It is true that we are not Mr Breglec, but if we are going to do these laws we will never even come to the European Union, because I also have an opinion from the Ministry of European Integration where it says that the Ministry of European Integration does not accept the proposed definition of courier service by calling for the definition of the national classification of activity and...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32166	Time fellow MP. As you can see, the rules don't apply to everyone. I'd like to interrupt my colleague, but he didn't see the light or the Rules of Procedure burdened him. I suggest we move on. The following was reported for discussion, MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. She's not in the hall. He's losing his word. Here you go, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32167	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I will abstract from the way the secretary of state defends this legislative proposal and which he speaks to the Croatian Parliament in tone. I usually like the secretary of state, it seems to me that I'm being over-taste. Look when this Law of Mail came as a government proposal, so when this second one came about courier services, there were representatives of the Mail Trade Unions and representatives of some courier services I don't even know who they were sharing flyers fighting each other for their own interests. This is obviously where the question is raised, or this is how the secretary of state puts it behind a pay phone whose side it is being placed, when MPs are accusing us of being placed on one side and on the side of those who have worked against the law. You see if anyone works against the law then the state has the instruments to ban it and punish it. That's what the government, the ministry where you work or some other ministry is required to do. But to come here and yell at the MPs because someone's possibly working against the law without doing anything by yourself, at least it's rude. Look, the workers are here and there in the courier services and in the post office, both working together. They both threaten to fire the workers. One if this law is passed, and the other if this other law is passed. I can't define myself between these workers. What's the difference? We said these are similarities, workers are here and there. What's the difference? Well, the differences are in the definition of activity. So the post office collects in predetermined places, and the couriers collect at the sender's address. The difference. If I get the definition right. Another important difference, one is private, the other is state. It is clear to me that a representative of the government stands up for this country that is state-owned, so it is expected for him. It's natural completely. But may we here as advocates adhere to that logic and prevent private entrepreneurship. Third thing, third difference. I'm sorry, we've heard the difference of efficiency here. Well, look, the court's letters are being delivered or can't be delivered through mail, and that's what the courts point out. So the courts hire courier services. Why? Because their arguments are delayed. There is no orderly delivery of court papers, no debate can be held, it is postponed. Look, it creates a lot of costs throughout the system, a backlog in the work of courts that work ineffectively anyway. And no one arranged that job with the Post Office to make them do it a little more effectively. No one's done it. What does it mean to keep the monopoly on universal postal service for up to 100 years? Says the secretary of state, it's not an extended monopoly. All right, it's not enlargement, but preservation. The post office has a monopoly, for God's sake, we all know that and has a monopoly on the universal postal service of 100 years. This means that no new operator can appear to be doing a universal postal service with 100g shipments, which does not mean that no one can appear to be doing a courier service. So, not the universal postal service, but the courier service. Because it's two kinds of favors. It's as if we've given someone a monopoly to carry milk from a liter to a liter, we've given them a monopoly, but we can't interpret it now so that this other one can't carry bread up to one kilo. Because it's two kinds of favors. Universal postal and courier two types of services. Look, this Stabilisation and Association Agreement is followed by liberalisation. By 2009, complete, since 2006 partial, but this liberalisation follows. I deeply believe that Croatia will become a member of the European Union. It will be applied to her. Now, what do we do? These choke, these drown, and in 2 years that same market, that same activity is given to someone else. That logic doesn't make sense to me, I don't get it. What's been waiting with that Courier Service Act for so long, and it's been claimed that these operate beyond the Law. So why didn't you do it right away as a first job? Get the mail. In 2003 there was a profit, and here we couldn't figure out what Mr. Ferenchak says one digit, the secretary of state says it's not that number, but it doesn't say which one it is. We don't know what the number is. For 2004, we don't have any indicators yet, reports haven't come in yet. All we have is a statement that it's a loss. What's the point, but how did that loss come to be? Well, we can't even talk about it like this. Give it to me when the Post Office report comes and let's see what's causing the loss. Because it's the bad work of the administration, is it some kind of lawsuit? What was the result of these lawsuits for violations of employment? Who violated working relationships? Well, someone has to be responsible for that. And now, what, do we think what the government is doing right now? Because she solves the problem? Here, I think State Secretary doesn't. Because the government is abstract about some people working there in these courier services or in one of them. They're working. I mean, I don't know what the government does. She protects the mail, it's okay to protect the mail. That makes sense to me. I don't know why, though. Is it because the post office is state-owned or because it's humanely filled with HSLS, and there's coalition relations. Is there a third reason, I don't know. I don't know. It's logical that he protects the state firm. What else would he do? But Government, let the government take responsibility. There's a problem, it's obvious there's a problem. Let the government gather together the Association of Employers that makes one bill, let the coalition partner gather together, let them gather unions and let them find, offer one solution with which one side will be satisfied. Any solution will be a transitional period anyway until we join the European Union. Everyone. Everyone because there's complete liberalisation. So let's bridge that with one too many proposals so that we don't have to commit ourselves here between government workers and private workers. That's what I expect from the government, that's what I expect. You did not meet this expectation with this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32168	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Agent Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32169	Madam Vice President, I had a replica. Although there were many incorrect allegations, I will not correct them. I purposely give my colleague a line so that he can answer me. A fellow Stazic fights the monopoly. And I'm fighting the monopoly. I'm absolutely against the monopoly. But this courier service, and here we've seen only one defend itself, I'm not going to list all that because I'm going to waste my time. What the secretary of state said, so why this one only shoots Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split and even bigger cities. As far as I know, they are not where they should be, where they are lost, and on the other hand, if they are so much for the market economy, I personally am, this law allows them to be equal with the Croatian Post Office and not get jobs as they have so far. For example, from Privredna and Zagrebačka banka and from the City of Zagreb at the height of 60 million kuna so that they can perform certain services. It wasn't in a public competition anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32170	Thank you very much. You have the right to reply to the replica, fellow representative Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32171	I don't fight monopolies where monopoly makes sense first. Croatian post office has the right to a monopoly and will have it for a while and it is good to have it. And it's good to have it. Why? Because Croatian citizens work in this Croatian post office. The Martians don't work, the Chinese don't work, our people do. And if we were to end their monopoly overnight, what? Fire half the postman there. No, that's not what I'm up for. I am for preserving the monopoly, so I'm not a priori against every monopoly from tomorrow. If a different company appears on the market, it must do business according to the laws. If he doesn't do business under the law, then you know who's supposed to sanction it. Well, certainly not you and I here in the parliamentary debates. Well there is, the government has instruments. So let them be cut off if they do business beyond the law, let them be forbidden from their activity. Let him have a ban on activity, you know who can do it. I don't protect any private interests here. No, I don't think at all, I don't even know who these people are, but I'm protecting the interests of those workers who work with them. Because the state didn't do anything when they started working like that. No, it's not. Now that they've evolved, when they've hired people, they need to be put down. That's what I'm up against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32172	Thank you very much. We have another correction to the incorrect assumption. Representative Matušić. ... Please, fellow MP. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32173	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow Stazic has indeed expressed a great array of inaccuracies, but I will correct one. Namely, he said the Croatian government is protecting Croatia's mail most likely because someone from HSLS is sitting there, etc. It's an absolute inaccuracy, inaccuracy, and very trendy, but I'll just say one thing. To try to correct all your incorrect allegations. Namely, this Croatian government is seeking to introduce order where your government has introduced disorder and chaos.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32174	Thank you very much. Representative, final word, Secretary of State Breglec. I'm going to ask that we be really brief and, of course, we're making sure that you address the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32175	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, my deep apologies if the level of my debate has passed in your opinion the tolerance allowed here. It was by no means meant to insult the parliamentary representatives, quite the opposite. I just wanted to point out the responsibility for the spoken word, and I think I addressed it very precisely to those who didn't just do it. When we talk about court writings, this should be clarified, based on the rules passed by the Ministry of Justice of the Ministers, court letters may also be carried out outside this context of reserved or universal services. So, in this case, we cannot say that it is a service reserved for Croatian mail and the fact that this job is not done by Croatian mail, and that no sanctions have been taken or are planned to make speeches enough about that principle that I am talking about not only is prescribed but is implemented in such a way. When you talk about the responsibility of the Croatian Association of Employers, Trade Unions and Governments, I should say that this was done on several occasions during the last year, however, since the second half of the 3rd month when the proposal for amendments to the law today was addressed to today, and this is the day when it came to the Parliament, 11 months were fought, so I can say even within the structures that should have established this Bill proposal, in order to eventually come to a single solution. In this process also faced the Croatian Association of Employers and Trade Unions and the Croatian Government in the place envisaged by the definition that the Economic Social Council has repeatedly had to be such that this time no consensus has been reached, the Croatian Government and trade unions support this proposal, the Croatian Employers' Association does not support this proposal as a summary of the negotiations. But after several attempts, after months of debate, some conclusion and such was made, it should have been made, there's actually a few months in that consummation I won't say lost. Certainly, there is a transitional period that I have defined earlier should not be repeated and certainly there is a need for liberalisation of this very important economic segment, but both the Government and the Parliament have a great responsibility to deal with the good lord's attention to their own property and this property, the property of Croatian mail in book value, has been shown with more than 850 million kuna. Therefore, it does not matter at what time and in which and in what way complete liberalisation is expected, if it is prescribed by the European Union Directive, in 2009, if it is appropriate, it is completely unnecessary to say that any different treatment or non-implementation of the existing law would mean actually going in a completely wrong direction and a great risk of someone really coming to such a prepared ground that, in the opposite sense, these changes are going to be prepared and that the black scenario that has been previously talked about happens. I can personally say that I am an absolute supporter of liberalisation I am deeply convinced and respected ladies and gentlemen representatives that you are so, and that both the Croatian government and this House will make this commitment from the directive within the deadlines, let us probably hope that we will then be full members of it as it is written but then and in such a way as the whole of Europe will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32176	Thank you very much. It's been three minutes when we were supposed to take a break. I'm sorry, and I have to give you one piece of information. We will continue the work in 15 hours but with the point of the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration with the final bill of law, so I ask all those who are registered for that point to have this information in mind and a good course.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32177	We are going to continue the debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postes, Courier Services. It is up to the honourable representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32178	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32179	Please start time not yet. My colleagues and colleagues, please allow the MPs to speak. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, here's something more than it seems to me 15 months ago when we first discussed the Mail Law, then it was a law that was also passed by emergency procedure because it belongs to... Mr. President, I'd like to ask you anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32181	Order there! It's also in the French congregation. The same! We're still very quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs in that wing behind the stairs...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32182	Maybe you should take five minutes off, get those who go out. So, it seems to me that in September 2003, we passed the Law on Mail at that time was a European law, and what I think is procedurally wrong is that for this law which is European we do not have a comparison table to see which articles of this law are in line with European norms, which are not. It seems to me that by the way, it's lost to European law and it's very important for this consideration. In doing so, I would like to hear another one of the promoters, which is whether or not has been assessed in accordance with European directives, because even when we passed the basic Law on Post Offices, we were aware that some things had not yet been fully aligned with the European directives. I'd also like to know the reason for the speed of change. We're all talking about trying to get order. However, it seems to me personally that it is not only to introduce order, for there are certain things that I personally cannot take over and cannot accept as such. The first thing is the definition of courier service. We've had a few times today and there's a dispute between the part of the MPs. The courier service and postal service are certainly not the same. When Mr. Lončar speaks to the post office, that he wants a service at all times in every place in the Republic of Croatia that is a public matter, and that is why Croatian mail has their offices. We heard some work positively, some work negatively, but precisely because respected ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Post Office receive money from the state budget, i.e. subsidies to compensate for this disproportionateity between income and expenditure. Therefore, the universal service provided by Croatian mail, i.e. public service. It must be available to all citizens in all places in the Republic of Croatia on equal terms, from postage prices and beyond. That is why we must be fully aware that in one Bednje or on one island of Croatian mail they must provide a service. When we talk about courier services, this is about collecting shipments from home address, or delivery to home address with escorts, and it must always be known how to manage that shipment. This service is a market service, because whoever pays it, the operator who provides a courier service, he will deliver the shipment to any part of Croatia, of course it costs and that is what it is. I guess we just don't want to accept it here. The other thing is the definition of what a document is. The document should, in any case, be an I.D., be a public, any I.D. that matters to me as an individual because information is protected by law. So here I would like to ask the proposer of this law whether my account is from the bank, whether it's my payment card that I need to get for the utility or any service, is it an ID, or a document. Because if I don't pay the bill in time I'm damaged by it, so it's not without the devils why some of the banks, utility companies and everyone else are doing courier delivery of such documents, because the consequences of not getting such documents, let's also remember those court documents, just cause damage either to me as an individual, any company that gets such a service. We need to be clear and precise about this. We are not talking about how any company or courier service has come to work, because ultimately one bank that is private and has the right to give a job to whoever it wants, another thing is that according to the Public Procurement Act, the local and regional self-government units, and the state authorities themselves have to come to a public competition who is more favourable, who is more quality. I must remind you that the Association and Stabilisation Agreement entered into force on 1 February of this year. Therefore, we as a state have taken on certain international commitments if we want to join the European Union. Let's not forget in 2000 we accepted the Marrakech Agreement and Croatia entered the World Trade Organisation. At that time, we accepted that both courier services were completely separate and fully meant special terms and legal and all those without restrictions on our mail. It seems to me that this law regardless of whether we want to admit it or not, we are in some way having an adverse effect on the competition. We have mail, and I think it's a chance to talk a little bit here and about Croatian mail that unfortunately have not yet entered the restructuring process. We need to be clear and precise here, this government has not yet found the strength to restructure the Croatian Post Office, but this law may want to extend the monopoly and hold some kind of fake social peace before local elections because it is constantly said that someone will take away the job. After all, Croatian mail also have HP expresses which are also if we say that everyone else in the market works illegally then also does HP express because it is not first isolated from the mail system. I wish we had a balance sheet from the Croatian Post Office here, that we got what incomes and expenditures are related to both HP Express and certainly that there is plenty of room in the Croatian market for all the courier companies that are working at the moment. However, it seems to me that because of someone’s mistake in earlier periods, we want perhaps to warmly or accidentally make 3,000 workers, or 3,000 families currently working in courier services, simply run out of work. I ask the government and representatives of the government how it is that the Croatian Parliament's conclusion is not respected to come to this House with the Law on Courier Services. We have parallel to the Committee on Maritime and Transport and Connections, however, it was negatively apparent by the Government, without giving its own text of the law. I'm sorry, it's incorrect and it shows that the government simply doesn't have the power to regulate such a market until the end. We are aware that further deregulation is taking place in Europe. Something, most of the European Union countries have universal shipments, meaning they are protected up to 100g. Further deregulation goes to 50 years. Therefore, we must be aware that as soon as we go into the restructuring of the Croatian Post Office, we will have better competition, healthier business and a better competition. I'm also interested in making a statement to the European Integration Ministry, we haven't received any documents. Mr. Secretary of State hears us there something, however, I'd be far happier if we got it as agents. That's why I suggest that the urgency of the procedure be removed here, that this law still goes into two readings. I think a compromise should be reached because jobs are jobs, either in the Croatian Post Office, or in these companies that have courier delivery. I think, in that case, until the second reading, if representatives, first of all, of the ministry, were to be found together, I must say that I find it a little strange, every club of representatives has the right and opportunity to bring back whoever they want. However, if representatives of the Croatian Post Office come lobbying on one club of representatives, I would like to know why they were not at other clubs, if the media accurately conveyed that they were there. I also think that given further deregulation both in Europe and in Croatia, it can be very easy for us that when there is complete deregulation, we have a market in these moments, however, so that there are no Croatian companies and Croatian workers who will do so, but there will be foreign capital. And in doing so, I can call for the principle of our parties, and above all, the parties of the majority coalition. When this Law was passed in 2003, it was said that, both the DC and HSLS and HDZ with us from other clubs, they advocated that this article 14 which speaks precisely about these courier services be abolished. Gentlemen, where is your principle today, both of you and your government. You seem to have one policy when you're in opposition, quite another when you're in power. It was said that constitutional rights were also at stake because of Article 49. The constitution says "no law on one type of service can define and limit another type of service". That's exactly what the law does. Gentlemen of the majority coalition. That's what you said in September 2003. I'm asking you, are you going to start a constitutional dispute now, as you threatened the authorities then? Because that way I think we need to be correct to each other. Let's keep our jobs together. On the one hand, let us start to restructure the Croatian Post Offices, but let us make it possible for the special Courier Service Act to work normally. In this way we extend or maybe give some kind of security to the Croatian post office. However, I am afraid that when further market deregulation takes place in the Republic of Croatia, I end up with it, that we will have on one side, or perhaps Croatian mail, to keep them on one side, when the time comes, to sell them to someone. That those who sell buy the market. We're gonna have a market, I'm stressing one more time, but there won't be any domestic operators. We're just gonna be somebody else's renting force. I'm not talking about any company because there's no point in talking about it, but it seems to me that there are too many open answers left here...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32183	Thank you very much, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32184	One more sentence. I beg you, one more sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32185	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32186	Therefore, I will not personally support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32187	Thank you very much. The word is from the Secretary of State, Mr. Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Mr. Prosecutor has made several wrong facts, namely claims in his debate. First of all, this Law does not harmonize the Law on Mail with European Directives, as indicated. The Post Law of 2003 is in line with European directives and that was the meaning of the Law at the time it was adopted. It's an incorrect claim, the post office gets subsidies from the state. Since the adoption of the Post Law of November 2003, since 6 November the Post Office has not received any subsidies from the State and cannot receive any subsidies from the State. And I'd just like to warn and quote article 24. A law that doesn't change. So, which is in the same form, remains in force and which says that "when income from reserved and universal postal services does not cover their costs, these costs are primarily paid by a public operator, and if they cannot be settled from the profits of a public operator are paid out by the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia". This Law aims to enable the effective functioning of the market to be implemented and to prevent this situation from being intervened from the budget of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of dealing with the loss of Croatian mail. The bill is a written shipment. This Regulation shall enter The laws, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 which are also not touched by these amendments and additions, therefore, which you, as a parliamentary representative and several mandates, have raised your hand: 2 per post office mail is considered to be any written consignment, postal and speed manual, and a package which has the address of the consignor handed over to the postal service provider for the purpose of handing over to the recipient. Under the letter, letters, correspondents, printers, secograms and a small package addressed to a certain recipient and under three are considered also accounts, financial reports and the like, addressed to a specific recipient." So it's all clear, there's absolutely no doubt. And just one more piece of evidence, that this law is in this form, I repeat, these are unchanged articles, adopted in 2003, which is just another proof more in the claim that this Law does not change anything in these basic definitions, but that those things that need to be done more effectively. Then, the claim that the mail was not restructured. No, but they're at the beginning of that process. The supervisory board resolved the old one, under quotes, management in December last year, so two months ago. Named a new administration. The old administration counted 5 members, the new administration numbers 3 members. I think it is also one sign that this process has begun, and of course it follows a downturn, and a Regulation that would have to guarantee a new structure and that would have to be the beginning of restructuring, which is an imminent process if this company wanted to be held on the market. The claim that he wants to ensure HP Express is not a monopoly is not correct, i.e. I would like to supplement and say that HP Express has filed a complaint and that he is one of the couriers on the Croatian postal market. The application, as well as the other 8, is therefore submitted by a total of 9 companies to an independent regulatory body, therefore, the Council for Mail which was also established last year and which this Parliament gave its consent to the statute several days ago. The claim that 3,000 families will lose their jobs is completely flat and incorrect. In fact, 3,000 families are likely to suggest the families of workers employed in courier companies. I repeat one more time. Perhaps the distinguished Mr. MP was not present in the morning part of the debate. That's when I said it, and now I have to do it again. None of the courier companies are against this law. 4 courier companies of 9, explicitly, quote a memo, support changes and additions to the Law proposed by the government. They, however, do not give the right but exempt anyone from speaking on their behalf, at this time the Republic of Croatia is not opposed to these amendments and to the addition of the Law by a regulated registered company. Here, they also read to the employees of those who work in courier companies, first of all the 9 who have submitted themselves and who are the only ones on the Croatian market as courier companies, it is incorrect that I quoted you and can copy their memos, records from the meetings and their conclusions. So, that quote, the secretary of state, I'm not reading it, I've been quoting the opinion of the Ministry of European Integration, quoting it can also be copied, from it very clearly results in an unequivocal consensus on the amendments and additions to this law that are on the agenda today. The claim that Croatia is lobbying in clubs, I must say that I was personally present on the board where the representatives of the private company were "City Express", I see no reason why the proposing parliamentary representative and the club would not call as part of gathering information to anyone, a natural person, a person who has information, so it may be true but certainly is not wrong to see that there are opposite examples. In conclusion, I would like to say that in my debate, the Honorable Mr. MP is accusing other clubs of being inconsistencies and I have cited exactly what are the articles of the claims that are contrary to the provisions of the law which have not changed and which have been adopted for the mandates of the former government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32189	The correction incorrectly states the esteemed colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32190	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The secretary of state mentions the number of members of the administration, 5 and 3, but it is not about the number of administrations but about the salary of the administration, allegedly that these three have a higher salary than all the five together, at last these salaries are incomparably higher than the ministerial salary, and that we are not talking about the Secretary of State and that we are not also talking about the severances of the three members of the administration, as well as those of the former administration that numbered them 5. This is one of the basic problems this Parliament will have to talk about sooner or later because you, Mr. Secretary of State, as well as Mr. Representatives or ministers, have no swear of severance, and all these gentlemen in these state-owned companies are going home after working life with 500, million or a million and a half kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32191	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Ferenchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32192	I'm correcting Mr. Breglec's incorrect allegations, where he says no company is objecting to this law, the courier, and that four companies have given their support. 4 companies have given support to those who deal with overseas, say their names, and we will see who they are, so these are companies that don't belong at all under the monopoly because their services are three times more expensive than post office services. All companies operating on the domestic market fall under the insertion of your monopoly through that classification that I said point 31. So please explain to me why you are expanding the definition of receiving e-mails, receiving home address, says article 31. I read to you twice that it doesn't say, so we're not crazy about God reading yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32193	Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32194	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, I simply quoted from the Croatian Parliament's report who is what in the name of which the club said, so that I can refresh your memory, that you take that too, because you allow yourself to give us representatives a lesson.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32195	Please correct the incorrect quote, do not refresh your memory it is not in the sphere of the work of the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32196	I asked where I was, I was sitting and I listened to you all morning, I quoted Mr. Glavas, Mrs. Doric Nikolic, and I quoted today's Justice Minister as asking for an article 14 that defines courier services, I was very clear and precise, that you have two policies along with them, one in opposition to the other in power, that's already your problem. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32197	Since we have a united discussion on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Post and the Final Proposal of the Law on Courier Services, I am now giving my word to my colleague, Dorotei Pesic-Bukovac, as a representative of the proposer of this second Act. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32198	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, in order not to make some of the things about these different laws, i.e. amending and supplementing the Law on Mail and Courier Services, we must say and clarify a few things. This morning, there may have been a replica of the 5% that I explained about the rural environment, but I would like to make it clear that the 95 population in the Republic of Croatia is densely populated and 5% is all in rural areas, so that's 5% population, we don't add up kilometers in rural areas, that's one thing. As for those things relating to the islands, we must say that in 5 years, the post office has received from the budget of the subsidy 80 million kuna, so if mail gets subsidies then it is logical and that it carries mail to the islands even though it happens every third day, it is not every day as in other areas, however, it is subsidized for that. If we're going to cancel the postage subsidies and give the courier services, I believe they'd agree to carry the mail to the islands for that amount. It may only be a little dissuasive to me that the secretary of state has been called on the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications when the law was proposed, as I recall, were only representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association, which officially referred to the Proposed Law on Courier Services in the procedure under the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, and therefore it might be more correct that she sent her proposal for a law rather than to hide behind the Ministry. As far as HP express is concerned, I am interested in how they could apply as a company when they have not yet been separated from the shareholders' company, d.d. and use all the benefits from Croatian mail from their vehicles, funds and everything else. As for the Vice-President of Parliament, which she said this morning and sided with Mr. Secretary of State, that he was a secretary only from the 5th month of the ministry and he had not participated in the drafting of this Law. Which I would not agree, I am sorry that Mrs Adlesic was amazed by her presidential success and was unable to pass the Law on mail, so she remained in the dark because that law was the first one to be withdrawn 5 months ago and this one was made during Mr Breglec's time. And besides, Mrs. Tintor was already there at the Ministry, so she was also aware of what was going on, and before that she was four years in the Post Office. As far as the Courier Services Act itself is concerned, we still feel that it should be a special law, not to drown in the Mail Act, because these are really two different services, which we already had a chance to hear this morning. Here before I came to this afternoon's debate, I downloaded one piece of information from the Internet that in Croatia in 2004, there was a slight increase in written services, which is 1.7% more than in 2003. Therefore, as mail is concerned, although there is an increase in traffic they continue to produce bigger and bigger losses. So it really should, and it's high time to do something with that mail.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32199	Before we move on to correcting incorrect allegations, let me explain the matter with the working bodies. At the meeting, the working body may invite scientific, professional and public staff and other persons to obtain their opinions on issues under discussion at the session of Article 54(1). The Rules of Procedure, and I ask the representatives of the motions both of the law and of the other law, as well as the representatives, not to dispute the right of the working body, if they have called on and discussed it, nor to dispute in this regard. I mean, it's not a matter that needs to be discussed in particular, whether it's the subjective will of this or that, it's a matter of personal possibility, it's decided by the president of the working body and, of course, by the members of the working body. Correction of the incorrect quote, dear colleague Brnardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In her presentation, counterpart Pesic said that for the 5% rural population carried by mail on individual islands every third day, the post office receives subsidies so that many and almost all courier services would take over subsidies and carry mail every third day. I say it's an incorrect piece of information, because other than the fact that on certain islands mail may be worn every third day, there's a lot of islands where it's carried every day. And there are also lots of islands and lots of small places in remote hills, hills and remote places where there are post offices, which certainly post office requires always and only loss. And for such offices, no courier services would be called. And such shipments would certainly not have been reported by courier services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32201	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. We're continuing the debate. It's my dear colleague Markovanovic's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32202	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I can't help but think that on the very same note, I'm saying that the market has a lot of chaos and chaos, and that's what we've had today, and that's what we've heard from a lot of people. Therefore, a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Postages is necessary, and it must be compatible normally with the Law on Courier Services. Finally, the Postal Services Council should also be created, the Post Office Council should create legal assumptions for action. And more important topics in the proposed amendments to the Post Law include more precise regulation of provisions on obtaining universal postal service permits, increasing the powers of postal inspectors, and supplementing criminal provisions, which I think is extremely important. In particular, the area of courier services should be determined. Croatian mails with about 11 thousand employees cover unlike new competition to so call courier companies the entire area of Croatia. In many poorly populated areas, mail is certainly unreservable, but it is necessary to stay or better said survival of the population, and mailmen who often cross 10 kilometers per day under inhuman conditions are usually the only link between the ageing population and the world. It is normal that delivery competition develops faster and works almost exclusively in urban densely populated areas without expensive postal infrastructure, so many problems can be expected in the Croatian post office if it is regulated. It is necessary to define how to protect mail and how to secure a positive business. And we have a role model in most European Union countries. In the delivery of standard letters for all of the above mentioned Croatian Post Offices must remain we can thus call it a monopoly letter delivery up to 100 grams, but in the urgency of delivery it should be defined I think that even a multiple higher price is defined, but is not respected. This will ensure that Croatian mail can maintain postal offices and businesses, where the burden is not distributed to competition. Somehow, as an aid to the post office, the opening of a Croatian postal bank counter in most postal offices should be reconsidered, as this would be useful for Croatia's post office, Croatia's postal bank. The greatest benefit would be the population and urban areas, especially rural areas, and I believe that this would increase the competitiveness of almost the only remaining Croatian bank. Would it be very interesting to see how many employees have courier companies? How much work is there on black? A month's contract, two? Insecure business and disrespect for employee rights? I'm not saying this by heart, because I've spoken to a number of couriers. The analysis of the status of the three thousand employees mentioned by the courier delivery service union of Croatia should certainly be an important argument by the Post Office Council. And to us, in passing the Law and its application. And what I was going to say was that when we're so big on courier companies, I got in the mailbox one piece of paper, and it says I wasn't home, so I should come to Zagreb in some street or I know where the street is, and I don't know where their seat is. If she'd brought me that mail, so it's about letters, then I wouldn't know if I had a few hundred yards or a mile away from the next post office. So much for the quality that many talk about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32203	Thank you, dear colleague. It's all right, dear colleague Prgomet. Here you go, Comrade Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32204	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. So I have to admit that when you have a law like this which in a certain way reserves services in this case to a national public operator, you can really put one problem of ambivalence, because if you support, do not support, or support the law, then you can indeed be accused or can be understood in a certain way as limiting competition, limiting freedom of competition, equality as the basics of the modern economy. On the other hand, if you do not accept such a law again, do you question the existence of thousands of civil servants of the Croatian Post, but do you question the equality and rights of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia to get their mail at the same price and at the same time, so one of the rights that belongs to it? I must admit that it is really very difficult for me to accept the justification or the intention that a 5 kuna courier service will take your mail to Strošince or any island, that it will leave a highly profitable environment such as Zagreb or large cities, and thus indeed lead to an unfair position for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, if I understand this Law correctly, it does not essentially change the previous law when it comes to the possibility of using, or disputed services, anything special, because if I am well aware of this law, there is not something that has not already been regulated by the previous law, but it seems to me that it is a question of whether it is someone if they believe the information they could have heard broke the law or used the possibility of providing services to citizens to whom they had no right, so instead of talking today about respecting the law, we are talking more about competition loyal or unfair competition. Finally, it is a legal act that is neither foreign nor European Union countries, so it is not our wetlands, and I really see nothing wrong with the state and through certain legal acts protecting its national interests and ultimately protecting its national operator. Of course, it does not dispute the need for certain things already discussed here to be spoken by offices within the Croatian Post Office itself through restructuring, implementation of more transparent work, etc. But I think that this law ultimately, as it was accepted by our club, should be accepted and operationalized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32205	Thank you very much, dear colleague. There's a respected colleague named Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen, the adoption of the Law on Post in 2003 is one of the obligations made by the Republic of Croatia in order to comply with its own legislation with European Union legislation. That's what we heard today in the debate from the Secretary of State himself. All Member States of the European Union as well as the Member States intending to become obliged to comply with their legislation and provisions of the European Union. The postal law is prescribed that other legal persons authorised by the Post Office may also be engaged in postal services other than Croatian postal services. Croatian mail has the right and obligation to perform all universal services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia while other service providers can be defined for the whole territory or only certain parts of the territory that are more financially profitable to them. In order for services under the same conditions and at the same cost of costing to users to be provided throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to bring into line profits achieved in areas where costs are lower with losses achieved in areas where service costs are significantly higher. Letter shipments up to 100 grams, direct mails up to 100 grams, postal and fast public and letters by administrative procedure can only be made by Croatian mail. It's those reserved services. Prices for reserved postal services do not bring in Croatian mail, but are brought by the Post Office. Some European countries have reserved shipments of up to 2,000 grams, such as Poland, Switzerland and many others. These amendments and additions to the Law on Post Offices also covered the question of courier services. When defining the concept of courier service, a clear separation of courier services from other postal services has been achieved in order to prevent the renaming of universal services to couriers. However, in practice it occurs in certain postal services and renaming the universal service to couriers. Why is that actually happening? It is precisely because certain postal service providers avoid obtaining a universal postal service permit because the postal law also provides compensation for the provision of universal services. Finally, the renaming of the universal service in couriers is incorrect because it disrupts the equality of users, i.e. the inhabitants of rural areas, are placed in a more unfavourable position than the people of urban areas. The proposed amendments and additions to the law will more precisely regulate provisions on obtaining a universal postal service authorisation. The addition of criminal provisions is also foreseen, the authorities of postal inspectors are increasing. And in the end, what does it matter, what is obtained by these amendments and by the additions of the law? Order is being introduced on the postal service market, which is certainly important for 11000 employees in Croatia. Of course, this introduction of order doesn't fit some of the companies that do courier work because they haven't respected the law since the very beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32207	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my dear colleague Damir Caine's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32208	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament! There, the Croatian Parliament had discussed the consumer protection programme a little while ago and assumed that we would adopt it during tomorrow. In front of the European institutions, we all acknowledge that against the monopoly, and what we are doing here. We make these legal proposals on the one hand about mail on the other hand about couriers de facto we choose between Croatian post office on the one hand and City express or courier on the other. It's actually such a peeled-up point of today's debate. That's bad, but when it's like that, then some things really need to be peeled off to absurdity. First, how will our consumers go in this war? If the monopoly survives, I'm sure it's a bad one. The consumer protection programme on page 2 says the common feature of all modern democratic states is to protect the interest of the economically weaker parties in business transactions on the market. That's what we discussed this morning. On page 5 of the same programme signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it literally states that the role of the state will be appreciated through the creation of a market economy, enabling economic growth and the development of the country, but will depend greatly on consumer confidence, price of goods, services in the Republic of Croatia, formed freely under market conditions, not to mention everything further. At this point, I do not want to be put into the role of arbiter or protector of anyone but I am asking myself whether these 5% of the revenues in the total amount of Croatian mail are made and the courier services made can endanger Croatia's mail as large and often from the very state-owned company. We heard just before Mrs Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac said that in five years Croatia's mail was touched with if I am not mistaken 80 million kuna. That's four years of city income, say, express. So, what's the problem? Is the problem in those 1.9% of the revenue from post office which is otherwise generated by the City Express in the mass of, say, the Croatian Post Office or the irrationality, trombones, inertity of Croatian Post Offices? In my opinion, that's actually the point. Are we now going to eliminate competition with Croatian Post Offices, protect the monopoly of Croatian Post Offices, or are we going to force Croatian Post Offices to set up a far more professional way towards consumers? Of course it doesn't depend on the workers. It's not up to the postmen. This depends primarily on the incompetent administrations of the Croatian Post Offices, and I would say on the other hand and the crazy politicians who allowed that most profitable part of the Croatian Post Offices, which are Croatian Telecommunications, to privatise why it was simply a disaster in this country. That's the point to me. Instead of privatizing the post and keeping the telecommunications under quotes, we privatized the most profitable Croatian company. In the past, we at least taxed profit, or profit out of the country. Now we don't even do it anymore. But no one in the mail asks what if 600 people, the courier we had the chance to look at here in St. John's Square. Mark's out of work the next day. Some of those couriers are mothers of three children. The rest of them are actually boys, girls of 18, 19, 20 who are so soon not going to get a job if we get them into that situation. Where's he going? I didn't make you cry, but I do ask you where they're going to go to the post office without a job, but nobody can lose their job in Croatia. [[You made me cry.]] But it won't be like that with the courier. And that's actually the point. And for every postal employee, every representative of this House, every minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will stand for each post office with an severance of 100, 200, 250 thousand kuna. And who will stand behind the courier? No one. They're going directly to the Employment Service. Everyone in the Post Office gets a higher salary than the minister. Perhaps twice your salary, Mr. Secretary of State. They're all protected by management contracts. Ask yourself how much these management management contracts are. Finally, what might matter. Is it now constitutional to allow someone to work, give them a solution in opening that craft, or I don't know what, trade societies in '99 and 2000 and then ban someone from the amended regulation. It just can't be like that on the market. It's the same as if someone were nationalized property, and it's actually something in my court that's unacceptable. In this list we received from the post office are the countries where the area per mass is reserved up to 100 grams etc.. However, one copy of a verdict is interesting, a federal cartel office in Germany that says that on the basis of the advertisements, the federal cartel office banned German mail from preventing or discriminating competing middle-level postal service providers. It further states, in the case of postal services, it is primarily in the collection and sorting of written consignments as well as their submission to the German postal centre, which is considered to be these up to 100 grams. So the post office on the other hand has a certain monopoly in Europe, except in Cyprus, Japan, Great Britain, America and Sweden. But what are we doing with this law? This Law de facto allows us to nationalize, shut down some companies who until yesterday de facto according to Croatian regulations were allowed normal business. Oh, I know, I know the owner of the city express drives that big jeep Porsche. But maybe that company is loaded with 10 or I don't know 15 million credits. Well, it's not a game. There's a market behind it. There's a state behind the mail. I absolutely am worried 100% about Croatia's post office, however, this concern must not grow to care for its competition. The worker is always a worker in both the city express and the post office. 600 workers on the street of the city express is the same as 600 workers on the street of the Croatian Post Office or any Croatian company. 600 workers on the other side plus the average salary, times contributions, times some profit of the company times 12 months it's 20 million kuna. So we gentlemen are playing with this law of 20 million kunas in the country. And do we have the right to do that because we see that with 20 million kunas in 4 years, one such state de facto touches the Croatian post office that I can do normal business. Now that's the point. I'm simply not advocating anyone here, but I'm openly asking myself if someone who's better should be abolished just because it's better, the faster it is, the cheaper it is, the more professional it is. If the answer is yes, then I think we're wrong. The mail, we said, respects the loss. Okay, now, are we gonna solve her loss by shutting down the competition? If the constitutional judges listen to this debate, I think they'll have to take care of that detail. We heard that on the islands their loss is 30 million kuna, in areas of special state concern 40 million kunas the remaining 30 million kuna is due to irrationality. But be careful, we cannot solve it in a way that was allowed to operate normally on the Croatian market until yesterday. For starters, if that's the case, let's start with smaller salaries not for workers, not postmen, not administrations, less severances, not postmen, not workers, but administrations, because it's absurd that in this country, let's say a member of the board of directors of INE can take home a severance fee of 1 million and 500 thousand kuna and we're all talking about ministerial salary of 16 or 17 thousand kuna. This law is according to me, according to the IDS Club is anti-market, the Law that promotes protection, it is against the recommendations of the European Union, not to say immoral, and we ultimately decide on the fate of 600 or 650 workers. And in the end, I will end up paraphrasing Mr. Korenik. If it is true that this country intends to privatise Croatian mail and thus enable a future customer to fully eliminate competition, then tell me and I will, therefore, think about it, I don't know if that's why I'm going to raise my hand, but you can't get gentlemen in such a way that we just do so easily lead someone into a situation that the next day can't exist anymore. It's just not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32209	Thank you, dearly respected colleague, but I must say the same so that we must not generalise in our debates and the whole of one come, profession or profession such as politicians, as you say which you and we belong to because they participated in the privatisation of Croatian telecommunications. I think you, too, at one stage of privatization, have raised your hand for them in privatisation. So please, don't generalize. Corrections to the incorrect allegations, correcting the incorrect quote of counterpart Brnadić, you cannot correct me, what you said, please welcome fellow Members.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32210	Please, time will allow me. If time allowed, I would correct more incorrect allegations from Mr. Cain. He said that, I don't know, 400 people will be out of work, that courier services are cheaper, that the management of Croatian jobs is incompetent, that mail can't be organised. Here, I'll start with the last one, I'm a citizen for the first time hearing that the mail doesn't work, so I don't have any objections as a citizen about the work of the Croatian Post Office. That there would be 400 people out of work, so here we've heard all this time that courier services were working against the law, they could hire another 800 people, and then 800 people would be out of work just because they were working against the law, so they had more work to do. And now that order is being introduced in the Croatian Post Offices and in the work of courier services, fewer people will be working at once, but there must be order, and we all fight for order in all segments of this society. It's said they're cheaper, so I'm asking you, will five kunas take a letter to Premud or a letter to Medvidu or a letter to my Promino? No, they won't. Be safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32211	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected colleague Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. .... /The speech room was subsequently turned on....inaccurate allegations from fellow Caine, but I think Damire look, I really couldn't resist correcting it. You've been working through your exhibitions with 2,000 jobs so that he'll remain employees in these courier companies, so you've been working 400 jobs to stay. Look, you're actually talking about something that you haven't actually established yourself. You didn't get the exact information. And it's all killing you in one way and it's not true. It is not true what you said that the Croatian post office is taking away someone's jobs. It means courier companies. That's not true. The Croatian post office does not take away anyone's jobs. This is about, uh, the changes in this Act talk about the introduction of order on postal services. That's the point. And that obviously doesn't work for someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32213	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We're continuing the debate. It's my dear fellow Lonchart. Here's a colleague of the Lonchars.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32214	Sir. [[Intruder: Wrong quote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32215	It wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote, it wasn't a replica... Here's a colleague of the Lonchars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32216	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. My life chalk is to respect the opinions I disagree with and it is legitimate both in life and in politics. We have heard different opinions here today about the Croatian Post Office. Everyone has a right to say what they think, but I don't think we talked about being things today. I'll try here now and I've written down some questions that have been asked here. It has been said that this law is anti-European. Then it was said that he favors Croatian post office. Then it was said that he was destroying private entrepreneurship. We also had opinions that said that this Law made Croatia a monopoly on the Croatian postal market and so on. Many have said that for the market, many have said that they are for the market and I am also for the market, but I am afraid that many who have spoken today about this Law have not read it, but honor to the exceptions that they have said what someone has written to them and that is legal and legitimate. However, this Law on Post Offices defines the work of couriers. That's what this law is all about. Or he regulates the way and conditions of their action. I didn't hear anyone say that, I apologize to him, but I didn't hear anyone talking about it in that direction. You see, we currently have a situation in Croatia that individual service providers illegally rename universal and reserved postal shipments to couriers and do part of the jobs for which they did not get a licence from the Post Office Council. That's the facts. And even those here who are some of our colleagues who are legitimately and legally briefing again, no one has said about it, but we need to read this Law and we need to know a little state in the Croatian Post Office and we will see that it is true. But well, my God, anyone can say what they think is best or that's his conviction. The word we have today is that many postal service users do not comply with those provisions prescribed by the Mail Law. Some service providers interpret the law as they need it, especially in the last year and a few days. This can only be prevented by the precise definition of the courier service and the modes and conditions of their work. And that's exactly what makes this law. This would protect universal services as services available to all in Croatia under the same conditions. Is that so in Croatia today? Unfortunately not. What do we have today? We have illegal and illegal universal service and where? In highly profitable areas of individual service providers, this brings Croatian mail into an unequal position with these service providers and brings them into a subordinate position. Please, let's just take the city of Zagreb. In Zagreb, for example, we have "City Express" which provides services for, the Municipal Court in Zagreb, the Privredna banka, Zagreb Banka, Plinari, Cleanness, HEP, Vodavod and so on. Now let's see how many of them have done for example in Žumberk, Banovina, Lika, Kordun, Gorski Kotar, islands, Dalmatia Zagora or in those places where there is a clean loss? Is that what anyone was talking about? It's not. I repeat again. It's the right of colleagues and colleagues to say what you mean. But I think this law should be thoroughly read. I read it and I am deeply convinced that this law will regulate exactly what I was talking about earlier. And to conclude: this law regulates the postal service market and prevents the illegal operation of today's certain postal service providers. And that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32217	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32218	Here I am a legalist, and here Mr. Loncar said that couriers are working against the law, and I have done my best, and I haven't found a single verdict since 1997 when courier companies exist in Croatia that a verdict has been made that they are working against the law, and I believe that in one rule of law something that is illegal can't go on seven to eight, here now for the eighth year to exist. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think Mr. Loncar has read the law because he'd know how to distinguish a postal service from a courier's service. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32219	Calm fellow Lonchar, calmly react. Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Ferenchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32220	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Loncars where he said we said this law was anti-European. He is not an anti-European counterpart, Loncar, but is not in line with the European and Croatian regulations. And you fellow Loncar really haven't read any of the other laws because you've been going after postal and courier services all the time and you're always talking about how couriers should carry mail to the islands. This, colleague, colleague Loncar is a member of the Post Office Supervisory Board. I understand that he defends the Post Office, but he is also a parliamentary representative and must advocate a fair competition, counterpart Loncar. Therefore the Post Office, the universal postal service is reserved for mail only, but here the promoter cheats because it mixes the postal and courier services. The courier service is when a man comes to your home and takes the paper and carries on. And now if that paper weighs 101 grams it's no longer a courier service. There's a problem. And in, and in this dictionary is a problem where Mr. Brljak won't tell where they are receiving postcards. declared that it was [[Intruder: Time!]] Receipt at sender's address. [[Time! We're moving on to replicas.]] It's a courier service... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32221	Replica, a respected colleague of the Koreans has. Here's your colleague, Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32222	Thank you very much, sir. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32223	No, no, no. It was a correction to an incorrect quote. I read it. ... The replica of my colleague, Korenika, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32224	Thank you very much, sir. Well, I've given the replica that my colleague Lonchar has the opportunity to answer. First of all, I read both the law and the law. I can only ask the government and you what is the reason that to this day the Government has not yet referred to the parliamentary procedure of a law defining courier services. Then there would be no misunderstanding. After all, this High House has reached a conclusion that binds the government. I realize there was a time of choice, a government constitution, but it's been a long time since then, nothing. And the fact that courier companies work illegally doesn't stand, we have reports from the State Inspectorate who didn't report against a company that he was doing something wrong or against the law. I agree with you that you would wish as well as me that perhaps courier companies work in places where there is no profit. But it's a matter of market and legality. It's doing what's profitable. But also a courier company will deliver every shipment to you on the island, and that's all it costs. Question which one of us is willing to pay, that's what it's all about. But let's not cover anything against the market. The market will define the one who's capable, he'll survive. After all, under market pressure and Croatian mail founded HP express precisely because they found that it was a profitable activity. But we're constantly trying to do a postal service with a courier service to define the mix because it's not the same. One is collecting through mailboxes and post offices, here they come to your home address or address of the sender and all the time the shipment is followed. This is, however, a significant difference that is seen at the end of the day and in the price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32225	The answer to the line, dear colleague Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32226	Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to answer to my colleagues, Koreniki. I've read both law and law. Since we have a debate where both laws are united, I've talked about it, so you'll see if you carefully read the phonogram that I made a very precise distinction. However, you are in favour of the market, and I am a colleague of Korenika in favour of the market, but that these service providers are also present in the territory of Croatia as well as in the Croatian Post Office. But please, it's nice if we have it today. ... I didn't interrupt you at all, and I couldn't do it because I didn't even see what you gave me, whether it was an incorrect quote or a replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But you haven't corrected me in anything but you've commented on my opinion. But it's a good thing I'm going to work with my colleagues, Koreniki. Look, look what City Express is doing to you right now. Can you, again, ask here a question in front of this House because only this City Express because they came here to the Parliament to try to write for them. My conscience cannot allow me to root for anyone but I am rooting for the market and let them be equally present in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, both in Zagreb and in Žumberk. And I ask you nicely to check it was signed by your man from your party, Mr Bandic, as the City of Zagreb concluded a contract at 60 million kuna with City Expressm under very, very strange circumstances and a very strange public competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32227	Thank you very much. Replica, dear colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32228	Okay, now let's let City Express know if they've made a deal on 60 million kunas, very hard if their annual business is 27 million kunas. But let's let it go now. I admire myself, I admire anyone who works in the Croatian post office, but I am also, mainly our mailman, but I am against shutting down the competition. That's what I've been talking about all along. Where will our couriers from these courier services after the adoption of this law... He's not going to the partisans. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If the Croatian Post Office was doing business in 2003 and by losing in 2004, then gentlemen are simply wrong. That's what I'm talking about. What happens to gentlemen in the Croatian Post Offices is that today or during this period, they are operating with 80 million kuna of losses with 100 million kuna of losses and that in the past 5 years they have received 80 million kuna of donations from the state budget. If the problem is the island, and I agree that our citizen can pay for no service more expensive than he pays in Zagreb, then let the state extract it, because we cannot bring the citizens of the island into a worse position. But in doing so, gentlemen, we can't put out any competition, and that's the point. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32229	Thank you very much. The answer to the line, dear colleague Lonchar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32230	However, my colleague Cain, not a single word during today's entire day, as many times as I have come to the floor, did I not question competition or equality in the Croatian postal market, but I was just pushing for the other way around. And now that you do, I can't tell you that, but you can check it out, because it's business secrets. Croatian mail ended with a minimum profit in 2003 but ended with a maximum loss in 2004, so see what that is about. There are very precise indicators. That's one thing. Secondly, let's just take the city of Zagreb further we won't go, how many jobs in the city of Zagreb City Express has received in a public competition. And the third thing to tell you, what they got from the City of Zagreb 60 million kuna, their profit was 27 million kuna, not total traffic as you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32231	Thank you very much, dear colleague Lonchar. We're continuing the debate individually. A colleague of Bosniaks has a word. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32232	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously this is a very important law not only by the fact that this dynamic debate is with this law here in the Parliament, but also by the fact that they actually welcomed us at the entrance to the Parliament and employees of the Croatian Post Office and the employees of these private companies, both of them shared flyers, and both of them are looking for legality, order, and both of them are looking for work, and both of them are afraid of staying out of work. When we look at all this and we look at this law that's being offered, I don't think there's any danger and that after I believe this House will bring this law, that no one will be out of a job. Namely, the legal framework that we have and within which the Croatian Post Office works and within which these private companies work remains, in fact, the same law as before. In principle, the existing monopoly does not increase, nor does its institutions expand, nor does it form any other form of monopoly. And on that side, I think if for almost a year and a half it's done business in such legal frameworks, and if there's a job on the market for both of them in a year and a half, then I don't see any reason why this job wouldn't happen in the future for both of us. It is absolutely certain that the future is in an even greater liberalisation of the market in demonopolisation, but this should be done gradually, in which it should go absolutely carefully and in this process should be protected in fact by public interest for citizens in all our areas and in all parts of the Republic of Croatia to receive that service from the Croatian Post and others as they deserve. We see that this monopoly is not left to the Croatian post office in this, I would say the transitional period is nothing bigger, is not a niche more drastic than other countries that are in the European Union and therefore we do not need to, I think neither we are going to break into something that we are not prepared for, and certainly Croatia's post office is one society owned by the Republic of Croatia and I think that we as a Croatian Parliament and also the Government must treat the property owned by the Republic of Croatia with responsibility and maximum protection of that property. Again, I would not like it to be interpreted as a way to protect the monopoly position, because if we remember what the situation was like before, we see in fact that legal frameworks and conditions for the operation of private companies have been created, and certainly in the future, this framework will increase further. As to whether the courier service law is special or in the context of the post office? So I think that if the experiences of the European Union show that in all countries the courier activity is regulated under one law, I don't think we have to be the exception either, and that this law actually explains this courier service, and I think it's quite satisfactory that these standards we've installed inside. So I think that this law should be supported, it mainly specifies certain concepts that are already in the law, and it is quite certain that this law and we see it in fact from these directives of the European Union that it is in the spirit of the European legal system and it is for us to actually improve it even further in the next period, and of course what I said should not be brought into some major change, we must primarily protect the public interest, but not in a way to destroy competition on the market again, and in this year and a half of the existence of this law has shown that there is work for all and this if the respectable courier companies have supported this law, I do not see what would be here and who should be afraid of such a law. And that's why I think the law should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32233	Thank you, fellow Bosnjakovic. The root of a respected colleague has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a quote from Mr. Glavas, Report of the Croatian Parliament on 24.10. And I hope he won't tell me I'm a liar, because I read what he said. At that time, he said on behalf of the HDZ Club that HDZ believes that courier services cannot be regulated by the Post Law for the same reason as the Croatian Employers' Association, which says in its documents that no country in the European Union has identified postal and courier services. Among other club representatives, it advocates erasing Article 14 which is now proposed by the Government, with the obligation to propose within 3 to 6 months the Law on Courier Services, as the Club of Representatives opposes the monopolies position of the Croatian Post. It is also referred to in Article 49. The constitution that says, the law cannot be defined in a type of service and limited to another type of service. I'd like to hear from my HDZ colleagues, which is why there's been a turnover like this with you. Obviously and again, one policy is to be in opposition when we proposed a law with all the shortcomings that were, you were simply against it. I would like to hear what the reason is, but indeed what is the reason other than that Croatia is not ready for something. I am afraid that we are going faster and hopefully faster towards the European Union, the European directives say something quite different. We now have a big dispute in the German post office where they're just fighting the monopoly where they're registered for the monopoly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32235	The Republic, a respected colleague of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32236	Well, here I would also be interested in why there was a radical change in attitudes in HDZ and HSLS. I'd really like to know, 'cause I sure as hell stay out of the loop about some things that are happening and I'd like to know them. Because I certainly can't justify the loss of mail that occurred in 2004 if we know that courier companies are on the market of 97. So if we were couriers of the post office and we were talking about these islands and rural parts of Croatia, or 5% of the rural population, then it doesn't say that the post office is only for the sake of competition but obviously within the mail itself many things are not well regulated. And I think that we should deal with the post office and its income first and in a way that generates income or losses, not killing competition just to get some money in the mail fund. But I really want to know why HDZ and HSLS changed their radical attitude a year earlier, because they were advocates to pass a special courier law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32237	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32238	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I have also taken the word not so much with the belief that I will change something that cannot change, which is already drawn, but I feel a simple obligation to state my position even after a year and a half later after speaking here from this pay phone on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, which Mr. Korenik also spoke about on several occasions today in his presentation. My position compared to a year and a half ago, so the last year of the term of office in the last meeting hasn't changed by a hair. So I speak for myself this time. I used to speak on behalf of the club, and now I'm making a point on my own. My attitude is identical to that of a year and a half ago. It is clear to me that the Croatian State, the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament must take care of the property of the Croatian State, and the property of the Croatian State is the property of the Croatian Post Office. It's perfectly clear, and there's nothing controversial about it. But it is also clear, and there is no question at all where Croatia should go, and Croatia should go in the direction of the competition. A competition should be made possible because we have defined ourselves for this in 1990 and can't be choked by the competition. You can't choke competition on damage and burden, as well as on the Croatian state public system. If this public system is a trom, if this public system is operating with a loss, then it is necessary to carry out an analysis of the causes of this trom, which is the causes of these losses and to take measures to bring these losses down into some normal frameworks, to bring these losses to some normal position, rather than to choke competition, not to destroy companies that have been working and operating for the last 6, 7, 8 years in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So also at the time of the first HDZ government until 2000 and in time through a full full mandate in the last four years of the former coalition government and here in more than a year, a year and a half of this third set, the third political position in 13, 14 years of Croatian independence. So I believe that this text of the amendment and the addition of the law that is before us today should be accepted and considered to be the first reading of this law, and that this law should go into further procedure, experience the second, third reading if necessary, and not break anything over the knee, not suffocating competition, but in the interest of all Croatian citizens, it is only in this way that we will create conditions and that companies operate in one quality and positive way. And therefore my proposal is concrete, that this reading today, that this is not and should not be accepted or this debate should be concluded that it is the adoption of amendments and additions of the Law by emergency procedure, but rather that this amendment and supplement is considered a first reading, and that this text goes into second if the situation requires it and if this text is not mature after the second reading and so let it go to third reading. It's serious stuff, and no one has the right to do it over their knees. I also think you should give everyone an equal chance. You should give these couriers a chance if they have any interest in covering the whole, working in that activity. They should be given a chance, given the task and task of covering the entire Republic of Croatia at a certain time, if they are interested in working in these activities, it should also be possible to find the possibility, legal opportunity to commit them to cover the entire territory and the entire Republic of Croatia within a certain period of time. Therefore, they are obliged to perform these services both to the farthest places and to the most distant islands. Therefore, my proposal is therefore to leave all this market, not to hold back and restrict anyone by political decrees or by the political will of the majority. And for this reason, colleagues and colleagues, it is my suggestion that we consider this debate today to be the first to read this proposal to amend and supplement this Law and to return to the completion of both the Croatian Government and other interested entities. To give their views, to give their opinions, and to return them to this assembly again, to evaluate and to bring the final word only then. I think it's the only way, and it's the only way, because in the conversation and in preparation for this debate today, I've spoken to one of the state officials and expressed my views with these proposals not to choke the competition. However, to allow competition in this area as well. The answer was, we can't allow competition because competition will destroy mail. I, as a parliamentary representative, cannot accept such an interpretation and cannot deal with it. Because what does that mean? If we do not allow competition because we are aware that competition will destroy mail as a public system, we recognise the weaknesses of that system. We protect and stand behind weaknesses, behind obvious weaknesses in this system and do everything we do and do to harm taxpayers, to the harm of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that competition will not destroy mail as a state public system, but competition will force mail to adapt under these market conditions and market circumstances to reorganise its ranks, to modernise its business style. And that only in this way will improve the quality of business and achieve better business results and that the financial indicators of that business will necessarily have to be much, much better than they are now. I believe that there is room for both and for each other and that, when one healthy competition is created and Croatian citizens are more satisfied, they will have a better service, but also a much, much cheaper service than they are today. So, I conclude because there's really no need to make any additional arguments, it's all familiar. It's all clear to everyone, and I think everything else is a waste of time. I therefore conclude that my proposal is that this reading, that today's debate is considered a first reading, that this House concludes that the amendments and additions of this Law are not adopted by an emergency procedure, by an emergency procedure already in two, so if more reading is necessary. That it's a serious problem that needs to be eliminated. So, Mr. Korenika, but also to all those who quote what I said a year and a half ago, my attitudes haven't changed by one single millimeter. I speak for myself. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32239	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32240	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. What is the basic objective or objectives of this amendment to the Law on Mail? It's there and listed, and I'll point out. This is a gradual liberalisation of the postal services market, then the provision of reserved postal services over which Croatia will retain the monopoly so that certain most necessary letter shipments can reach each citizen of the Republic of Croatia at the same price, which is very important. Thirdly, in my opinion, the introduction of a separate independent postal service regulatory body. Most of the barrels were raised around the courier services and about 100 years, although so far it has been prescribed, but unfortunately it has not been implemented. As a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison as Vice-President of the Committee, I supported the proposal for regulation and this problem, i.e. to adopt the Law on Courier Services for the reasons that this was not regulated and that the current Law said that it would be regulated by a special law and that it would be in charge of the special conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the Government was tasked to refer the proposal to the parliamentary procedure within 60 days. For these reasons, I also supported the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the new Law Proposal. In the meantime, the government sent its Bill of Law to regulate it, and for me it is the most important thing that this problem is solved. And whether this or that law is less important, but as we see it more or less in all countries is regulated through a single Law on Post, not a special law. And also, more or less in all countries is reserved for a monopoly of 100 or more grams. The same is said here about, which is the market, which is the monopoly, who has the market and who has the monopoly. In that sense, I would also ask whether it is a monopoly to deliver mail throughout Croatia or whether it is a monopoly to only deliver mail in large centres, in large cities. I'm also for the market, but then let it be equal for everyone. So, I support this draft of the Government because it solves this issue regardless, and I think that the issue is particularly in the Courier Services Act and is consummated and resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32241	Thank you. HDZ representative's club, five-minute debate. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32242	Thank you, Mr. President. In the name of the club, I'd like to finally say a few things about this bill. In fact, it's very difficult in the whole of this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Mail. This is primarily the fact that this proposal regulates the question of courier services and that the term courier service is defined. And when defining the concept of courier service, a clear separation of courier services from other postal services has been achieved in order to prevent the renaming of universal services to couriers. The renaming of certain postal service providers shall avoid the obligation to obtain a universal postal service authorisation prescribed in Article 31 for which a certain fee is to be paid in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, one part, only one part of the universal service and this written consignment up to 100g, direct mail, etc., which has already been here are reserved services and this can only be done by Croatian mail. Everything above that is on the market. Therefore, it is not at all disputed that the market can very well function. However, reserved services are meant to preserve universal services, i.e. to prevent the objective of preventing the housing of inhabitants as already mentioned here in rural and less populated areas in a more unfavourable position than in large-town residents. We all know what one post office in a small village, on an island, means the same as school, means bakery, etc. So it's true that these people are put in the same position as those who live in larger cities, and that's the meaning of defining these services and the clarity that this amendment bill makes. However, I would like to say something here about what went on throughout the steps of individual representatives and IDS, both HNS and SDP, is about the losses of Croatian mail for 2004. It is clear from the account that the loss we have here is the decision made by the Croatian government on 22 December 2000, which was chaired by then by President Ivica Racan, caused enormous damage, millions of damage to Croatia's mail. How? The Government's conclusion of 22 December 2000 required all administrations and supervisory boards of companies in state and largely state ownership to establish a salary policy for 2001 in the following frameworks. So I'm going to list some very important frameworks that have led to great consequences. First, immediately access the cancellation of all collective agreements regardless of the period of validity of them, keep salaries in 2001 at 2000 level without including payments for annual holidays and Christmases. And in 2001 do not pay regress for vacations, holiday bonuses, child accessories, etc. The government's decision of 22 December has produced thousands of lawsuits against the Croatian Post Office. And what happened in 2004, Croatian mail had judicial disputes in total value to their damage of 125 million 755 thousand 346 kuna. 125 million kuna costs of Croatian post office based on one single decision by the government of Ivica Racan in December 2000. And in 2004, of course we have a loss, so that we do not have a loss in such litigation which has been brought obviously to the detriment of Croatian postal workers and also to the damage of the Croatian Post Office today to explain to the Croatian public, why the loss here is the reason for the loss. 125 million litigation. Therefore, it is quite clear why the Croatian Post Office came into this situation from this data and do not again convince us that it is something else because these are specific data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32243	Thank you very much, also on behalf of the IDS Club, a five-minute debate by the respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32244	Dear Mr. President, there's something else that's hard to say after a full day's debate, but to keep it recorded because it's constantly talking about 100 grams and the reservation of senders up to 100 grams for mail and that couriers won't be out of work if this monopoly is introduced. We at the IDS Club disagree because 90% of senders in the Republic of Croatia are up to 100 grams and 75% of them are up to 20 grams. It's not even the essence of grammar. I was talking about it at first, not how hard it is, but how it was collected and delivered. So only that partial argument about grammar is really just partial. The definition of postal service is a service to receive, transfer and supply letters and packages, and the courier service is considered a service to collect, transfer and deliver letters. So that's two different things. We can say that in Croatia post office, because HP express is still functioning under the auspices of Croatian mail that they are doing courier services, and only that segment, because if all together did the same, and Croatian mail would still not have to form, a new company of HP express that would deal with courier services. This stamp here is reserved for mail, couriers don't have stamps or mailboxes or post office, so don't forget when you raise your hand that you need to separate post office services and couriers. I support a colleague of Glavas who said that we can take this as a first reading, where the law could specify more things about postal services because it's all pretty foggy so that it can somehow be manipulated again as it has so far. Claims that someone is working illegally are illegally very casual because there are no court rulings for it. I think we're a legal state and we'd certainly sanction someone who works illegally, in a bar if you don't issue an account they'll close it down, so I don't see why a courier company for seven years would let someone work illegally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32245	Thank you and the SDP Club, respected representative Miroslav Korenika, 5 minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32246	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, a bit of a polematic debate that has lasted almost all day with interruptions shows that this is an extremely important topic. We at the SDP Club believe that we should go in line with European directives and European norms and allow a normal competition to take place in Croatia. Accordingly, we are aware of the situation of the Croatian Post Office. Croatian mail is still, we heard from Mr. Secretary of State just started in the restructuring program, which is why we are aware that they need help. Every post office in the Croatian Post Office is welcome, especially since Croatian Post Offices have the importance of maintaining how postal services we need to know that there is also a Croatian Post Bank operating in areas on some islands, in some small municipalities and that Croatian Post Offices are somehow a gateway to the world for a good part of Croatian citizens. However, this does not mean that this is not exactly why we should take care of the market, we are about to respect European directives to be the right and fair competition should take care of every job in the Republic of Croatia. Let us not pass any law by bringing any company to any branch of activity into an unequal position or that, overnight, because of different regulations, jobs must be built. I am not saying, and we do not claim that this Law will bring this to an end, however, so that all of us can be moved to make Croatia's mail hastily restructured, we know that the losses may be. We are also aware that there must be some kind of transitional period I will repeat at the end of that initiative that I have given as an agent to remove the emergency procedure from this Law to try once again to set up at the table all interested and see after that debate and with the Association of Employers, the trade unions of each other, because we see that these trade unions are also opposed to those courier services those from the Croatian Post Office. See what the Chamber of Commerce says, because this is also one way to provide quality and cheaper services that Croatian citizens deserve to be more competitive in fighting for better and better quality jobs. At the end of the month, it seems to me to be the beginning of October when the Law on Croatian Postales in 2003 was passed in the procedure, a provision that should have been binding on each government regardless of any convocation of the Croatian Parliament until it was annulled, that within 60 days the Law was passed, or proposed to this high home of the Law on Courier Services. We're aware of that and it was an election, it took 100 days for the new government to get to work and see the state of affairs. And that's why we think we should, no matter what, come with the Courier Services Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32247	Thank you very much. State Secretary Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32248	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll take a few observations first. It was said that members of the Croatian Post Office have higher salaries than before, incorrectly. Members of the Croatian Post Office appointed in December of this year have the same salary as those before, whether they are large or small, it is another debate. And it is also true that in some of the rights they had before their rights were abolished and that they now have no new contracts in relation to the contracts last management. The post office does not receive subsidies, it was wrong after my express statement that it did not get from the date of the election of the Post Law since October 21st 2003, does not receive any kuna subsidies. It was also wrong to say that the Law had been withdrawn and that this was a completely different proposal. This law was addressed to the government's procedure in March last year. The reverse situation, the Proposed Law on Courier Services was referred to the procedure at the 11th month of last year. After the Croatian Employers' Association was led by the City Express company, which frequently appeared in the debate at GSV and elsewhere, several times publicly said that it was not necessary to pass the Law on Courier Services and that it is contrary to the adoption of the Law on Courier Services. It was their position for several months until they saw that the Croatian government was determined to adopt these amendments and amendments to the law, and then accelerated by an emergency procedure with one maneuver on board was adopted this initiative and certainly perhaps well to discuss it in this way. These are the facts that are evidence behind every word I say I stand. That there is a disturbance in the market quote from the debate, precisely the government partly does, but the instruments for the prevention of riots are within the law. And the law is passed by this Parliament. So let the appropriate instruments be brought in that will be able to implement the order. It was also said about the attitudes of the courier shipping company union. On 7 February, we receive confirmation that there is no initiative to submit such a trade union with registration, on 8 February of this year we receive confirmation that the initiative was submitted, a request for registration of the union of courier shipping companies. It's a pleasure to know that it's been encouraged by the employer, probably the establishment of that union, but it would be interesting to see how many members he has. And the first action before they were established was to refer a public stance against conflicts of interest, allegedly the secretary of state, but if there is a conflict of interest between the gentlemen, the Republic of Croatia through the government, is the owner of the Croatian Post Office, it is an important fact and it is important to highlight it. And if there's a conflict of interest hypothetically you could say with that as thousands, dozens of other cases actually that the government as the owner of the property, and the law from that area is in conflict of interest, of course that's not the case. Is it 5%... income can be caused by negative business? Of course not. It can't be. But the fact that a mess is happening, that we have a riot on the ground, is blocking any effective restructuring of the Croatian Post Offices, because at any moment unions will rightly warn that there is a mess. And behind that alibi may also hide some of the bad things that there are quite certain in the Croatian Post Offices and which should be changed necessarily. We want to remove this first effect, i.e. this first situation, and at the same time as I said before, it moves into a serious restructuring of Croatian post office. That 600 people would be out of a job. I'm that no one will. And if the government were to push ahead of measures where both state-owned companies are left without a job, evidence is the situation in the Croatian Railways, where, according to the business plan this year, 600 workers of the Croatian Railways are planned to remain in the company with 100% ownership of the Croatian State, so it will be less at the end of the year as a result of the receipt and an agreed hope in all cases of layoff. So, on a concrete example, we can prove that this is not impossible and that in the process of rationalising the business of the Croatian Post Office, of course, such processes will have to happen, so I don't see why they would not happen in some other companies. It was also wrong to say that until yesterday, City Express was allowed to operate. It was never allowed to operate, only there were no effective mechanisms to contain it. So, that there are no judgments by the courts is an exact claim, but there are reports, and the slowness of Croatian courts is the reason that there are no verdicts, there are four applications at this time against only one company which... be told is not a courier and which refuses to report that the courier company is so eskicipating and finds a hole in the existing law that changes these rags. On the postponement of adoption, I think any prolongation of the adoption of this Law would extend the existing situation and have a great crowd again very quickly on Mark's Square. So I don't think that would be the best way to bring this law into some kind of long procedure if it wanted to be effective, of course. And now a few words about the proposed Courier Service Act. I'll cut short as much as I can. On the basis of the applicable Postage Act, 9 companies received an orderly application submitted to the Council for postal services the conditions for the provision of postal services, mainly courier services which they provide neatly. Most of them are the outposts of large multinational companies and which courier services do without a problem. This is about companies listed in the draft law, which should bring the area of courier services into line with a specific law, although they support the regulation of courier services in the post office, the post office and the proposal for its amendments and additions. So, explicit consent I think every comment goes on... A few words about the directives. Directive 97/67 of the European Community shall speak as follows. Member States are quoted as saying "a time schedule for the gradual and controlled opening of the market for written senders to the competition, which will allow all universal service providers sufficient time to introduce further measures to modernise and restructure the need to ensure the long-term sustainability of these services in their market conditions." Accordingly, those Directives allow national postal operators to reserve or monopoly within the intended price and weight limits, thus excluding other market participants from the reserved area. So this is exactly what the basic law of 2003 fully implements in this law. Point 18 of the Preamble of the Directive, which I mentioned further, states that the important difference between emergency mail and universal postal services in the additional value provided by emergency services and that the most effective way of determining the additional value is the additional price that users are willing to pay without prejudice to the price limit of the reserved area that must be respected. Yesterday, on the internet, services are offered contrary to this principle. Closed documents are offered up to 20 grams per kuna and 84. So, absolutely this provision and the principles that I have read the outcome of the directive has been violated. Up to 20 grams which should not actually be offered at all and then up to 100 grams 3 kuna 28 which should also not be offered, and then by the name of other documents up to 20 grams kuna 25, up to 10 grams 2 kuna and 30. This can be found on the Internet, it is contrary to the law at this point and contrary to the law and so far and will be easier sanctioned after these changes and additions. From the above analysis I have talked about, I will not repeat, it is evident that no Member State of the European Union has a specific law on courier services. That doesn't have to be hoped to add any comment. In cases where courier services are subject to legal regulation, which is most often the case in the legal systems of the new Member States of the Union, the provision of the above-mentioned legal norms and sometimes defines the law governing the provision of postal services, so in an analogue manner the Croatian Government has decided and, in this case, propose to define these services by the Post Act and, of course, excludes the adoption of a special law. In the end, the adoption of the proposed Courier Service Act and the same shipments would be applied simultaneously to two laws, the Post Act and the Courier Service Act. I don't have to say any further what that would mean in order or disorder of postal services because in fact, two laws would regulate a completely different matter. Following everything presented, the Government of the Republic of Croatia opposes the adoption of the Law on Courier Services and proposes the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Mail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32249	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32250	Well, it was a lot of inaccuracies, but I'll just maybe concentrate on a few last ones. Mr. Breglec said he was on the Internet and he saw services offered per kuna of 84 kuna. I must say that it is certainly cheaper because the brand is the cheapest 2 kunas and 30 kunas, unlike all other members of the European Union and we are the first in Slovenia to have the same price for a single stamp. This would mean that we should really confirm everything about competition. And that's where you also called for HH and HH business. I don't know if you advocate not to be restructured and 18 thousand kuna spending on an opera ball. Who knows what else might happen in the post office that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32251	E opera balls. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am concluding a debate on these two laws. By 12 o'clock tomorrow, whoever has the amendments to those two bill proposals should file them, and then we'll decide on these proposals. There are suggestions to conclude that it goes into two readings, we'll decide when we vote but not to prejudge tomorrow until 12pm of the amendment and the Law amending the Law on Post and the Law on Courier Services. Tomorrow's session would begin with a debate and a vote of confidence for members of the government. This has already come to the Parliament, the Prime Minister's proposal for a resolution notice and proposals for confidence and these proposals for confidence are under discussion. And after that debate, we would go to the vote and then continue to discuss the Law amending the Fire Law and so on, as it is already according to order of the agenda. I'm interrupting the session. Resume tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. Proposed Law No. 233. The debate on the text of the law is over. In accordance with the proposal of the HSP Representatives Club, the following conclusion is put to the vote. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the postal law with the final proposal for a law was held in the first reading. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find that with 102 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32393	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The government proposes to amend and supplement the Law on the Construction and Fraction of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. It is the three central bodies of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and the State Nuclear Security Institute and the National Institute for Standardisation and Measurement. As for the first, we propose a merger of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration for several reasons. I remember when I was in the Government that introduced the Ministry of European Integration that at the time we wanted to send a very strong message to both the Croatian public and the international public that Croatian foreign policy has one absolute priority, which is Croatia's entry into the European Union and that through the establishment of a new ministry we want to give to all those who will work in the state administration to bring Croatia closer to the European Union and the special portfolio through which it will be carried out. Practice has shown that it has been good but there have been constant overlaps with the Foreign Ministry because the foreign ministry "per definition" behaves and performs the same duties as the European Integration Ministry. Of course, the Ministry of European Integration played an additional role not only outside but also internally to propagate, to speak in a transparent and public debate on values, the reasons why Croatia should enter the European Union, but also the role of European integration, apart from external and political activities in co-ordinating work with the European Commission and other European institutions. And the role of the European Integration Ministry will remain, by all means today if the Parliament accepts the government's proposal both in the United Ministry and through the ministry's title. So, we propose that the ministry be jointly called the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, so from the title but also through the war, this obligation will remain for the Ministry of the United to act towards the Croatian public through all those activities that have already begun and which are already taking place, which is the National Forum which has the task of going from county to county, to speak about what the European Union is, which are the advantages of joining the European Union and having a public debate with the Croatian public, Croatian citizens about this foreign-political goal. It is therefore one of the tasks that remains in the united ministry. So, on the one hand, we wanted to avoid this potential if you want the rivalry or the duality that was shown in practice because both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of European Integration were doing practically the same job and the Minister of Foreign Affairs was doing jobs from the domain of European integration. Here's the latest example. Currently current Foreign Minister Miomir Zuzul was in Brussels two days ago with EU President Mr Junker on Monday, so as foreign minister he was practically also in the post of Minister of European Integration. And in that sense, we believe that this is a good proposal to unite these two ministries. On the other hand, I think we all agree on the need to take care of it in Croatia, and that was the initial position of our government when we set out to go down to the number of ministries, thus reducing the number of ministries from 14 today to 13. We believe that the government will be even more effective, even more mobile and even homogeneous. In order to ensure, of course, that this move between the two ministries would not be misread in the European Union, I spoke with European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso on January 17th when I was in Brussels and some other members of the Commission, including the Commissioner for Enlargement, and I saw that the echo was very good, even though Barroso, who was the Portuguese prime minister himself, supported me in that decision and said that it was a good decision for Croatia. That would be about the merger of these two ministries. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, since the Nuclear Security Act is established by the State Nuclear Security Institute as a state-run administrative organisation, we propose this legislative proposal by harmonising with the Nuclear Security Act in a way that, as a state-run administrative organisation, determines the State Nuclear Security Institute and prescribes its workaround. Thirdly, the Law on Accreditation and the Law on Standardisation provides for the establishment of the Croatian Accreditation Agency and the Croatian Institute for Standards established by the Regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since they are taking over the tasks of accreditation and normisation of the so far State Institute for Standardisation and Measurement of this legislative proposal, it is proposed to amend the department of the State Institute for Standardisation and Measurement. Since the Parliament has already accepted the urgency of the procedure, I do not need to particularly explain it. I thank you for accepting the government's proposal for an emergency procedure. And I ask the parliamentary clubs to support these proposals that the Government has made regarding the amendment and addition of the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32394	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? President-in-Office Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32395	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Secretary of State! The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament held at the 27th session held on 16 February discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment and Circular of the Central Authorities of the State Administration with the final proposal for a law. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of its powers as set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure as a parent body. In the debate, the Committee supported the solution set out in the draft law, in particular the formal unification of external and political activities aimed at the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the establishment of administrative organisations under the applicable law. After the debate, the board proposed by a majority of votes 6 votes to and 3 against the Croatian Parliament to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32396	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32397	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives! First of all, I want to say that every government has the right to its own inner structure. Each majority can determine an entirely autonomous number of ministries, offices, departments, etc. Finally, that is why the ruling parties have received to state the legitimacy that they can establish a power that will be promising in their court. Now how successful the government itself is on that second chance. Obviously, neither economic parameters nor social parameters are too optimistic. Just remind me that the external debt is 80.2% of GDP or 30.2 billion dollars or, for example, 30.2 billion dollars. the average pension in 1 month 2004 was 42.42% and in the first month of 2005. 41.38% of the average salary. That's the point. So debt goes up, pensions go down. There are some positive moments. However, this growth in external debt has in some ways been halted, regardless of what is significantly larger than last year, exports are growing, etc. To be honest with me, it is personal fault that the Ministry of European Integration is being abolished. There are those who are now in the Croatian public and rightly asking what this is. Whether this is under quotes goodbye to Europe, and now suddenly we do not need the Ministry of European Integration anymore. I agree with anyone who says the Ministry never had much right to be a citizen. But that's what the Ministry wanted me to admit or not, the biggest role played in the moment of the crisis, under quotes, the Foreign Ministry, specifically his leading man, Mr. Zuzul. It doesn't matter now that some country's European integration ministries have in Europe, others don't. Nor does it matter that this ministry should be more concerned, which is normal, internal policy, harmonisation of legislation than foreign policy, but it is important that we recognise it to ourselves or not in some way we may not send the happiest message to neighbors who surround us or, to the European Union. As for Mrs. Kolinda Kitarovic herself. She certainly was a good minister, she is certainly a generally accepted minister. No one before, since the opposition has tied too much to HDZ although it is clearly part of the HDZ team, it would even dare say and compromise was on one divided political stage and as such probably and most acceptable for us from the opposition, perhaps for the HDZ itself because there are no major party expectations although always the foreign minister is de facto in some way another man himself. Now, if it's good for her, on that other occasion, she'll be very often separated from the children, but for the rest of us in this House, it's certainly a compromise solution. However, the political thresholds, the IDS that did not vote for the government, cannot vote for appointments, even though we will talk about it tomorrow, but to the government itself, I repeat, I do not object to the fact that the government is doing its own thing to her. What we may be more resentful is the unreal promises that the central government's spending will be reduced, some ministries will be abolished, etc., but this did not happen because with many secretaries, ministerial assistants etc., the state is more expensive at this point than perhaps two years ago. Clearly, for a structure like this where the Ministry of European Integration is now being abolished, I believe it should be kept at the very least. I don't think a proposal like that is wise in any way. When Mrs Ljerka Mintas-Hodak, at the time of the visiting isolation of the Republic of Croatia, formed the Office for European Integration, it must have been a good move. She must admit it to Mrs. Ljerko Mintas-Hodak set up a good team, came under quotes from young bureaucrats, people who did their job with whom everyone who came from Europe was happy to communicate and cooperate. So it was a good move. It was a good move when the European Integration Office rose to the level of the European Integration Ministry. No, because one year there was Minister Jakovcic already because all the people who were appointed by Mrs Ljerka Mintas-Hodak continued to do their job regardless of the position, the political position of the then government headed by Mr Racan and what is it, I dare say any strong, relevant people. There was Mr Mimic, there was now Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, who proposed to the future foreign minister. So the choice of ministers alone confirmed the seriousness, weight, strength of the ministry and the commitment of the former, current government to European integration. So it's my personal judgment if it's best to keep everything the way it's been so far. That means leaving foreign policy to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the validation I do not know, these policies, coordination and internal regulatory, etc., with the European Ministry of European Integration. Just before, Mr. Sanader, I quote, said there would be no rivalry, that these ministries would not be doubled. The question arises as to whether there was no rivalry between 2000 and 2003, and now, after 2003, this rivalry comes to life. But that's less important now. I even believe that rivalry has never been there before. Although it is clear to everyone that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has one greater weight but I repeat, the Ministry of European Integration in the Republic of Croatia has at least played a positive role so far. I am fully open to every government, every government, and every government that has the legitimacy of Croatian citizens and this Parliament is a Croatian government I want full success. Their failure will be in some way and failure, I dare say, Croatian policies as a whole, each Croatian citizen per person. The second thing is that for political reasons IDS cannot support ministers, but if we can personally help anyone we will do that because I repeat the government's failure is always the failure of the country as a whole, each of our citizens per person. I personally want, when we're talking about the foreign ministry now that this ministry, that Mr. Sanader first and foremost resolve the issue of Gotovina, to start these negotiations with 17. 3. I want the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to convince the diplomats in Zagreb, that on this basis the Croatian Government, the Parliament, all the structures of the government are doing everything in their power, that this country even went under its dignity when it allowed six of them to catch Gotovina in Croatia and that finally if Gotovina is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then it is not this country that is responsible but... which notes bene Britan and their British general commanding there with 6 thousand soldiers... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, when it's so easy to solve why, say, the Americans and the British can't catch Bin Laden? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also want the success of Minister Polancec and Ljubicic and I understandably said that as a party that did not support the government, it cannot support these acquisitions. But this is now the Deletation Act of the Ministry of European Integration. I know that because of this merger, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, as the Prime Minister of Croatia himself, should not suffer too much, but in some ways it may demote employees in the Ministry of European Integration, whom I am sure were top professionals or, as I said, true bureaucrats in a positive sense of the word. What I would advise the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, as the first task with the start of negotiations, to be a solution from the status of so-called. Slovenian pensioners in the Republic of Croatia who receive significantly reduced pensions by 13 to 16 to 33% after the entry into force of their Income Act, which ultimately means 500 to 1000 kuna less. I know I say borderline issues don't have to, but I can wait, but existential issues need to be resolved. In one word, I believe that one of these proposals that we have before us today is premature.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32398	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32399	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't mean to report after everyone on behalf of the promoter, but here simply so that the debate does not go the wrong way, it is not to abolish the European Integration Ministry. The proposal is to join two ministries and remain a name. You, Mr. Representative, have always said that it will now be called the Foreign Ministry. No, I don't. Therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration remains. So, now I'm going to quote you, what you've said is that it was impoliteness, something like this, I feel free to quote, interpret your statement in the government so far, even gets in effect. On the contrary, the truth is not to lose but to gain strength, this very European, European element of foreign affairs and the European Ministry of Integration is one thing. Second, we're not sending the wrong message. As a responsible politician, I felt good about what an echo to one would be, and I talked to some of the others I did not quote, they took it very well and welcomed it. European integration is gaining absolute strength through this. So it's not going to be any weaker than it is going to be stronger and the last thing the people have not increased in this government but has been reduced. During 2004, there are less than 5,000 people when we take everything and the defense and everything else. So we can't talk about any kind of increase in the number of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32400	Thank you. SDP club, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32401	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We of the SDP Club already warned when the Government Act was passed a little more than a year ago when HDZ took over the government's portfolios that the government's reduction and grouping in several ministries was actually one cosmetic reduction in the government and that the real effects to get a small and effective government would not be. After a little over a year, it actually shows in practice that we were right. We got only a formally smaller number of resistors, but we got a really larger number of officials, a much larger number of employees, but we also got a large and inefficient ministry. For some areas, we have warned and today it turns out that the separation of for example to two ministries was fatal. Here I specifically think about the system of social care lost in the health care system because it is two large resolutions burdened with the problems that have been found in one ministry whose head is always, so there was a doctor and now there is a doctor again. Unfortunately, the sociale in that vault was definitely put in a different plan. It is also divided between this portfolio and the second portfolio of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, where in fact this part of the family is a kind of virtual ministry, because under the Government Act by 2006 this ministry has absolutely no authority in that part. We've got the other side and we've got the so-called so-called. By reducing the government, we also got a mega ministry in which we put both transport and maritime and reconstruction and tourism, which proved too much for one ministry. And that is why today we are asking whether the decline in investment and growth rates is due to such a poor government organisation or a lack of knowledge and resources. Today again in this Law, with the excuse to continue with the process of creating a rope and operating government, the merger of two ministries; the foreign ministry and the Ministry of European Integration and the creation in our opinion of another mega-mind ministry. We're talking about the merger of two incompatible resistors. In particular, foreign affairs are primarily concerned with foreign policy. The political representation of Croatia abroad, and European integration should deal with Croatia's preparation for entry into the European Union and technical coordination of resources and institutions in the country. Maintaining the Ministry of European Integration is important and necessary in the view of the SDP Club and because Euroscepticism is growing in Croatia today. We think that people in Croatia need to be explained what the European Union is, it needs to be explained as it is with all its weaknesses, its virtues, with all its good and bad sides that it carries, but it should also be told the citizens that it is the only alternative for Croatia and that we do not have a better one. It is bad when it is said in public that we have to do something because we are being pressured by the European Union. This, unfortunately, creates a very ugly picture of the European Union for citizens, and we think that the Government must have the strength to say for many things that it is about our policy and that everything we do is for our own sake. Nothing in this country is allowed and can be done because of what the European Union is looking for but because of what we want, because we want to do it, because we want to install certain values into our system. After a long time between Croatia and Brussels, we are currently in a period of uncertainty whether the negotiations will begin or not? In our opinion, from the SDP Club, delaying negotiations is bad for Croatia and the absolute greatest responsibility of the executive is to do everything possible for these negotiations to begin. In the past year, in our opinion, a lot of energy has been spent on foreign policy and everything has been put on the map of entry into the European Union. As a result, a large number of problems in the country have been neglected. I would just mention that in the last year, it has not been enough work to comply with our legislation with European Union legislation and it has not worked at the pace that we ourselves have set and which we have foreseen in this House. Last year, only 32 laws were passed which bear the mark of compliance with the European Union. Definitely, the entry into the European Union depends primarily on our will. To enter is not enough just to have a wish but to work with concrete moves to show that we can change things in our country. Last year unfortunately, many reforms were halted in the sectors in which they started. The new reforms are neither a design nor a start, and this will assess whether Croatia is ready to join the European Union, and there was an absolute job of the European Integration Ministry that was important and important. In our opinion, this merger of the ministries is not the result of one serious policy, but the result of staff policy. It seems to us that this government faced a problem of personnel because it is evident that in the last month and a half no one wanted to enter a government that in just a year lost almost half of its support and reputation among citizens. It has been known that it has been difficult to find the Minister of Health and that many have rejected the place because no one wants to solve problems in the sector that have accumulated lately. Let's just say that it's a very nasty fact that the payment of drugs from 160 days has been extended to 300 days, that because of the Ministry's relationship with domestic drug manufacturers there's been a restriction on the supply of medicines, that health restrictions follow, and simply that's enough reason that very few people wanted to take this job. So in the last month and a half of the great number of people who have been animated for this place just so here's one finally agreed to be a health minister. However, there is one saving fact, which is that this time the Minister of Health has not received the economic portfolio. The amendment of this law also shows that it has given up the initial concept by which the Deputy Prime Minister is also in charge of a concrete portfolio. Now we get a vice president who doesn't have a ministry and will be the only vice president in charge of the economy. Is this about the lack of personnel causing such a change in the concept of government formation or the tragic economic balance after only one year of HDZ rule? Because of what we've put out here, the SDP club will be against this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32402	You said no? Against. Thank you. The HSLS club, DC-respected representative, Vice-President Djurka Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32403	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We, as a club, will support this bill. But I'm going to remind you briefly that you wouldn't be surprised or have different interpretations of why we support this. WE warned in the past term that the number of Croatian ministries is too high. That we have too many ministers on 4 million people, that it's an expensive and huge administration. And not only did we object, but we also proposed laws, under which the government could be reduced only because we were not lucky and our proposal did not go through then. One of the reasons why we supported this government was the fact that the number of ministries was reduced. Because that number was definitely too expensive. And I will remind you that it was known in this assembly to sit the same number of ministers in these ranks as the Assembly's representatives did. What we have warned about when we are establishing this government is a problem that can now be updated only by other ministries. We have warned that the Ministry of Health is too demanding that the Minister of Health could be a successful Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy, it was indeed too difficult and demanding, given that we were a country that failed to attract foreign investment. Which had a huge number of unemployed, And if the goal of starting Croatia was the only one that could change Croatia, and run and that is the economy. Then we have to realize that the results are slower than expected. Not those on the macro plan but certainly those on whom citizens can assess the success of a government. And that is the question of the standard of each individual citizen. And surely it would be good if before this point we had the opportunity to analyze the government's work so far, to see indicators of one and the other might find out for ourselves who the weakest link in the government is. However, like any government, this government will have and will likely have such extraordinary situations. The discussion of the reasons I don't think would take us far, even though I'm sure some of them will. I think it would be good before this decision to have the prime minister answer us not only for our sake but also for the public, it is true that this claim is being made for personal reasons because there are allegedly no people for the ministry. It would have to be quite difficult to believe that so few people in Croatia want to be ministers. Especially when you can invite outside party people to the government. And I'll remind you that just in the last government, the highest quality ministers were the ones who weren't members of any political party back then. They weren't then. Speaking of bringing together two European Integration and Foreign Affairs ministries, it is certain that it is a demanding job. We want to believe that the minister will succeed. However, the fact that some other not only of the two ministries will have to work at the work of the European Union's adjustments. From the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture. Because those who need to prepare for the EU are above all in the area of agriculture, industry and the economy. So it's a joint business. We will support this proposal, but it would certainly be good to hear the answer to the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32404	Thank you very much. HSP's respected representative, Pero Kovacevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32405	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. Well, I think we're the most invited rightdoers here to talk about these legal proposals. Why are we the most invited? Let's talk to the argument. Let's talk to the argument. In 2003, at 9 months, we referred to the procedure of the Law establishing ministries and state administrative organisations. Because we said that the coalition government, which had then been the authorities since 3 January 2000, has created a megalomanical state administration, we know that the government then had a president and 22 members. That only state administrations were raised, various offices, and that was, say, just 18 different government offices. With 20 of these, let's say the state administration's office. And if we're going to tell the truth why, then it's moved from the European Integration Office to the European Integration Ministry. It seems to us that it was an agreement that Jakovic would become a minister in the government. That was it. Is it in the job description at the time, as well as in the description of the business offered by the Government of President Sanader on 22.12. In 2003, it was evident that the European Integration Ministry had no administrative and professional competence as other ministries. We also warned at that time when there were talks on the structure and number of ministries proposed by the current government that there was no need for a separate European Integration Ministry, but that our proposal was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. And then we said look at the job description. But then we were told that Europe is asking of us. We now hear that Europe agrees that this ministry does not need it. And that's why we call it an after-brains thing. We suggested it to you 22. 12. as we proposed to establish a state protection and rescue administration, this was then done. But in that period, we lost a lot of time. We lost a lot of time because we could focus this energy on what is fundamental to citizens' problems. And that the state administration is working for us as a civil service. Speaking of second-guessing, the same situation was with this listening affair. We said to get rid of it last year at 3 months. He wouldn't get rid of it. We said to solve the transcipt issue, and everything else, it didn't work out. And it's all an ex-post mind, and now you can see why we realists aren't in that power. Nor can we be in such a government. And for that reason, I think the time has matured for Croatia to start thinking about establishing a ministry of protection for national sovereignty. Because what's the situation, we think we should focus on that part now. When this part of the founding is proposed. Second, to get back to our proposal. Our proposal talked about 12 ministries. But so he said that we have a separate ministry of the sea, not that we have together within the ministry what people say, the Ministry of Air, Land and Sea and Tourism. Our proposal was that there was a separate ministry of the sea, and it is now also seen that it will need to be done. And to keep tourism together with the economy. Let's make a state administration that'll do its part of the job. And let's not wait for someone outside to tell us that we can do it now. Let us do what is in the interest of the Croatian people. We gave you a proposal, there was a proposal so in law form, no one else had offered it, he offered it at 9 months in 2003. That's the proposal we made here when the law was passed. Also now I say then we were saying why, in the name of the Croatian Defence Ministry, there is no Croatian defender. He's not even here today. Therefore, this state administration is not a service of citizens why this government is in favour and therefore we will support this proposal normally when it is our proposal, in order not to support the proposal that our proposal is essentially. We can't react differently because then we said it, but I say we need to make it a state administration to be a citizen service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32406	Thank you very much. HNS club PGS respected Vice-President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32407	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the government. The main draft law that is before us and what I will concentrate on behalf of the PGS Club, since this is also the main task ahead of us is the proposal to join the foreign and European integration ministries. What's the first moment? The moment is at which Croatia expects the start of negotiations with the European Union. So one of the most sensitive moments, I'd say from the establishment of an independent state and hoping to succeed. The moment in which we will then spend the next few years not only in intensive negotiations but also as an integral part of these intensive negotiations in intensive reforms in the internal institutional, political, economic, legislative reforms that actually mean joining the European Union. At that point, the abolition or merger of the Ministry of European Integration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in the opinion of the PGS Club, and it seems to me quite at first sight a fairly wrong message. So when we expect the Ministry of European Integration and what it should do to have the biggest job ahead of us and when we expect everyone to perceive us as people who are seriously thinking about working on this job to combine or drown in some way the Ministry of European Integration in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the wrong moment. The second question is jurisdiction. Perhaps in the Ministry of European Integration until the moment of candidacy, so getting our EU membership bid was primarily foreign policy. So if you want to do so today, or by March 17th, the job is largely foreign policy. But from the moment we start negotiating the work of the European Integration Ministry is 95% internal political. So it's a business of reforms in Croatia, a business of coordinating different ministries and legislation that comes from different ministries that regulates relations in Croatia and actually has no more influence and no more significant concentration on international relations, but primarily must be concentrated on internal relations in Croatia and on reforms co-ordinated within Croatia while, of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is by definition and as the name itself says concentrated on foreign affairs, so international relations. Therefore, jurisdiction is also dissuasive. The competencies are different and will be increasingly different and the more successful we will be in the business that we have given ourselves and who is ahead of us will be different. The European Integration Ministry's task is to coordinate the work of the government's ministries on the reforms ahead and in the face of the circumstances, I would say from the beginning, so from the concept of the Ministry of European Integration before becoming a ministry is well-conceived. From Mrs Mintas-Hodak and Varga, colleagues Jakovčić, Mimice, Ms Mladneo to Mrs Grabar-Kitarovic is well-conceived. There's a good team of people, it works in a good way, and there's something we've done well. And therefore, and from that point of view, if something works, if something works, don't go spoiling it, don't get involved in it because it can only be broken. So this is something that actually works well, and it would be best to let it continue to work well for the ministry. We believe that the talks on the number of ministers may be used for populist purposes, perhaps useful from such a political-marketing point of view, but what is interesting, of course, is not the number of ministers, but rather the number of administrations, the number of administrative appliances, the size of an administrative apparatus, the size of an entire, whole institutions that are or are not effective. And the ministers, if they're right, actually provide what we need more than anything, and that's the leader of the ship in certain areas and management. It's the minister's job. Three, two or five ministers make no difference. Of course, what makes a difference is the huge appliances behind it. And if you have 50 machines instead of 10 bureaucratic administrative apparatus, that's what costs. But Leadership and successful management is what we probably need more than anything, and that should be ministers. So our opinion here has already been heard, and it's not a big deal or anything out of the ordinary, but it seems pretty white to me that the main problem here is that there's no man for a foreign minister. That doesn't mean there's no man who wouldn't want to be. Probably this hall is full of people who want to be, but there are no people who could be. So who knew and could and were qualified to be successful foreign ministers in this government, which is not an easy job and is a great task. However, given the circumstances, there is an alternative. There is a possibility that this can be resolved in a different way and it is not terrible to admit that there is no qualified person for this job that could do it well enough. However, given the circumstances, there is something that is known in other countries and many European countries, not many but some European countries, let's say they practice it, which is that the Prime Minister takes on himself and formally, so it is very common that informally the Prime Minister is taking care of a single portfolio. But there is, of course, a formal Luxemburg, for example, a country where the Prime Minister has a portfolio among other things, so he's not only the Prime Minister, but he's also running a certain portfolio. And in our terms, it might be a solution for the Foreign Ministry to take over the Prime Minister under these conditions as its portfolio. Under these circumstances, we might be under attack to support this bill, so unfortunately we think it's counterproductive and we won't be able to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32408	You said you couldn't support it? ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Croatian Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32409	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. In December of last year, the HSS gave support to this government and voted for this government for several reasons. For reasons like we said in the debate, political competences, because we believe that after each election held, those to whom Croatian voters trust should be given confidence in the Parliament and the ability to manage the state, but we also stressed that we will be staying here in the Parliament, considering the government's proposals and what the government is doing, permanently every move being evaluated and depending on how any government move is assessed, in the club we will vote for, against or be abstention. That's how we've been acting to this day, and that's how we're going to behave today. This proposal that we're looking at today's HSS club cannot support. If for nothing else, it is for the sake of the fact that we have been trying to establish a full consensus in this House for two months now about the issues primarily related to the integration process of the Republic of Croatia towards the European Union, we are trying to create a complete mutual understanding by demonstrating to the Croatian public that it is, in fact, the crucial strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia which there cannot be any particular party special interests, which should always be tried to create a maximum consensus precisely because of that European Union, we are stronger, more serious and credible towards the world public. So if that is the case and if we are asking for agreement on all issues related to the European Union, then I believe that it was best to say that there was no obligation but that we created a consensus on all European issues that we have been consulted on and on this issue and that our opinion has been sought, and not only that we have been announced that this will be done. However, this is also the right of the Government, and there can generally be no major objection other than the principled one, and the principle of objection also concerns the fact that this autonomous move by the Government will in one part violate the harmony created between the parliamentary parties in this House when it comes to the European Union and the integration of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. We believe that this move, regardless of the reasons mentioned here, is primarily a bad message to the European Union. As far as I know, the European Union has long supported, and in my contacts that I had in the previous term of Parliament and during last government, all my international contacts have spoken of the European Union and the members of the European Union supporting the existence of a special ministry, so a special administrative state organisation that only takes care of business related to the European Union. I believe that nothing important has changed in the European Union, although these days we hear reasons that there is a different opinion in the European Union today, that it is not necessary etc. have a special ministry. I allow opinions to be changed there, but I personally hold my club as well, and it is a bad message to the European Union. In the end, it's a very bad coincidence. Today, we are about a month before that critical moment on March 17th when negotiations are to begin. Of course it is still all too expensive to ask, there are still serious trenches at the European Union – the Republic of Croatia about whether these negotiations will start or not. I do not intend to speak more in detail here today about the correctness of all these procedures and what this means for Croatia, and the correctness of the procedures not only in the European Union but also in our sides, whether we could have been more subtle, more correct in that whole story, etc. but it is imminent that on 17 March, miracles are approaching and, behold, only a month before the potential start of the negotiations, we propose the abolition of a state-run administrative organisation that is solely in charge of the European Union. We think it's a very bad coincidence. In the end, it is a very bad message to the Croatian public. I think that so far we have not been effective enough to explain the importance of the act itself and to take account of everything that will happen in the next few years when it comes to the European Union and that importance for the interests of our ordinary man. The fact that we have not been efficient enough is probably enough to say that in just a few months or a year, the European Union's acceptability in the Croatian public has dropped from 82% to 50%. It is a fact that says enough that we have not worked hard enough as a policy or as a policy to explain to the Croatian public what it means. Lately, it has been my impression that the Croatian public, especially that part of which is interested in concrete work, I mean entrepreneurs, craftsmen, peasants, therefore all professions living from their own work, have begun to penetrate one understanding that this pre-accession time, so before the formal entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, means extremely much to them that they have a chance to improve their economic and social position through the use of various pre-accession funds, etc. That it has grown ever more mature in our units of local self-government awareness that using pre-accession funds for rural development is possible to improve infrastructure relations and other relations in local environments. So that consciousness has begun to penetrate our public, I say to the individuals of entrepreneurs as well as in certain local environments. I'm afraid this move will be detimulative for both these individuals and the units of local self-government because they'll feel a little lost. I know it will be easy to answer that all these functions that were to be done by the European Integration Ministry will be carried out in the United Ministry, therefore, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. But you know, when an important job takes place in a large conglomerate, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration will be an extremely large driver whose head can be only one person, people will find it difficult to come to terms with such a large ministry, and it will be difficult to play that co-ordinated role in terms of reform procedures, in terms of public education, in terms of not only pure education but also agitation, if you will, about the need of a more and more high-quality and accepted European Union as an idea, and we are at that critical limit of 50%. Here's some reasons why we can't accept this idea and we think it's wrong right now. But we understand the right of every government to make its own decisions. The government has a majority, but we also need to know that it does not support the good part of the House, if I have understood this debate today, that it will end up in a very concrete way and this consensus, the consensus that we have created around the European Union. So we won't support it, but we're giving the government the right to run his own game, to run his own concept, but of course he's responsible for what he does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32410	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32411	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, the distinguished prime minister of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. It is without a doubt the right of every government to regulate its internal structure, to organise the government's work as it thinks it will be best. However, this should not prevent us from considering the arguments put forward in favour of this thesis that two ministries should be joined together. So I think there can be actually three groups of reasons that should be analysed. What are European integrations for Croatia today? All the government's activities from its draft to today's European integration have been a priority. The prime minister seems to have played it all on that one map, to bring the European Union closer. Where are we today, however, on that road? Looks like we're standing in front of the wall. The question is, can we skip that wall, and it's quite certain that we won't be able to get around it? That wall here stands, it will stand now for the 23rd month, but it will stand at the 9th month if there is a delay. It's a wall that can neither be torn down nor be bypassed. What is the role of diplomacy in European integration? Well, I think diplomacy has done its part. She did well, but she did everything she could. There's nothing more to say, there's no more worth convincing, no more praying, no more proving, no more lobbying, no more worth it. That's where you have to work. There's a problem to be solved, and diplomacy can't solve that problem. In that sense, it might be more logical to join the European Integration Ministry with the Ministry of the Interior. I understand the frustration of the government. She put it all on one card, and here we are standing in front of the fiasco. So what do we do now? It cannot be blamed for the former government's foreign deficit, because it cannot be done. It cannot be blamed for the opposition to throw wheels under wheels, not to cooperate because the opposition and the unison are helping the government on its way to the European Union. That is one new moment in Croatian politics, I mean good. It wasn't always like that, as we know, the former government was not lucky to have the kind of opposition this government has. On the way to European integration, she unfortunately had no luck. She had to experience this when voting on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the opposition then left parliament, had to experience obstruction in any attempt to co-operate with the Hague court, organise demonstrations, call it high treason. This government doesn't have to blow on her luck. She has a cooperative opposition. But the responsibility for any failure on that road still lies with the executive authority. And that responsibility is impossible to bypass. Now, is the government aware of that? From what he's doing, I'm afraid it's not entirely. Because look, what is coming to us on this European integration path? We are facing the first strengthening and trust in the European Union, we are facing harmonisation of legislation, the introduction of European standards, the strengthening of the country's internal democracy, which is still missing in many areas. The development of the economy, putting under control, say, the Secret Service, because it is also one of the European Union standards. The freedom of the media, the freedom of the media not to happen, the fact that they censor themselves on public television and do not publish contributions to the prime minister. That it doesn't happen because it doesn't even happen in Europe that we're going to. All, therefore, internal political issues themselves. Not a single foreign policy. Another group of reasons and arguments against such a solution. Look, it's two big ministries. Serious ministries, big with a lot of work. And now, how will one person lead them so joined into a massive ministry? Well, whatever the person is, he's a nice and capable minister, Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. But I'm afraid that ambition may have weighed on the objective possibility that these two large ministries would be joined into one. Well, look, the foreign minister has protocol obligations, a bunch. Every day he has to take someone in, he has to waste time with him, but he has to, it's his job. He's got to travel. There are no foreign ministers in the country, mostly no foreign ministers, because otherwise he doesn't do his job well unless he's on his way. So how is this part of the European Integration Ministry going to lead to an awful lot of work? I'm afraid that's not the best solution. The third group of reasons or the third group of arguments presented here, the prime minister said it was further rationalising the government, reducing the number of ministries. Look, it's not rationalizing it. No, let's cut the government by three ministers and raise it by 50 state secretaries. And now what have we rationalized and where has it been saved and what has it been saved on? It's not a reduction in the apparatus, it's an increase in the apparatus and it's completely unnecessary. I personally don't think it's very important whether a government has 12, 13, 14 or 18 ministries. But it's important that these ministries no matter how many of them they are, how many of them they're doing their job. .../The speaker went off and then turned on./ What we have from the ministry joining us in that huge maritime ministry, I don't know what to do, but I don't know what to do when the minister promises at 6 months that he'll pass the sublegal act and not bring it back until 12 months. It takes him six months in this huge mega ministry to pass one sublegal act because he has to deal with a thousand other things, the sublegal act concerns whether citizens will pay in fixed phone impulses for one second or a minute. It's not a lame sort of thing, as far as citizens are concerned, directly their pockets, it took six months for the minister to make a sublegal act. And now that we've rationalized it when we put these jobs together in his ministry, we haven't rationalized anything, the damage is done no good. So I think that the damage will be done here too, and the damage will be done here and the fact that something is now rationalized is a pure flossula, it's a demagogy not that well, first of all because of the citizens themselves is not good because of the state affairs, but my God, my government has the right to determine how it will work, to organize how it thinks it's best, we're skeptical in this regard and these are the reasoned reasons why we have to be against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32412	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32413	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Secretary of State. I listened very carefully to what the prime minister was saying in explaining the bill and I realized that in Europe long before they knew what our government would look like from tomorrow, how many ministries we would have, that would connect, whether some would separate, what state offices and state institutions would look like. We are again in the situation here in the Parliament as we were when we passed last amendments and additions to this Law on 22 December 2003, we were left with 12 hours of time to discuss the law and to adopt it so that it could be published that day. Today we had even less hours, because we got the law started the debate at 3:00 and it must be published by midnight. So, we as Parliamentarians and materials got it this morning so we could read it. So, we've been left with less than 12 hours to get the materials, to study them to analyze them, to consult with the profession, to discuss here, to sign off, to create a text editorial to get it all published in the paper. I am pleased that the Prime Minister had discussed this with his colleagues in the European Union before and only then came here to the Parliament and left us for eight hours. In theory, it may not have been all of us who applied for the debate, but theoretically, it could have been inconclusive if each representative had discussed it. But it was obvious that not all MPs would apply. Neither when this Law was adopted in December 2003 nor today did we receive a comparison on the structure and organisation of the Government of Central European countries at a time of transition or at a time when they are approaching the European Union but we are very happy to call for their experience. So, if we're showing ourselves, it would be good if the government were to deliver us at some point to see what it really looks like, so that on December 22, we were to call on the experience of the Federal Government today, here's the experience that's not being used. What turns out from this proposal is that there have been problems over the past year and a half in the functioning between the foreign ministry and the European Integration Ministry, and since there have been problems in their responsibilities and functioning, then we have found a great solution to bring these two ministries together. I am now wondering if it would have happened if Minister Zuzul had not had to step down from his duties because of the conflict of interest, would the problems in the functioning of the two ministries then be identified and if which of the ministers had to step down. Furthermore, I wonder if such problems will be seen in another ministry if the minister or minister are forced to step down just as Minister Zuzul had to do. This is how it really turns out that the only problem in the government's functioning was in overlapping jurisdiction, as well as in communication between Minister Zuzul and Minister Grabar-Kitarovic, but because Minister Zuzul stands down, the greater guilt fell on Minister Zuzula. However, it seems to me that there are some problems in functioning and some other resolutions, so this may have been a time to consider some other government organization or relocate and some other administrations or sectors from one ministry to another or in a different way to do so. I'll mention a few examples. At the end of last year, we changed the Law and we created a new Directorate for Protection and Rescue, unfortunately, not to this day people from 1. 1st in the Protection and Rescue Administration crossed from civil protection, did not get their solutions and their working status is unsightly. Another example, by another organisation within the Ministry of Agriculture, agricultural inspectors were transferred from the State Inspectorate to the Ministry of Agriculture on 31 December 2004. Even to this day, these 51 highly educated people, therefore, have not received their own solutions, no one gives them tasks they continue to come to their jobs but do nothing. Or an example of a third, one of the great important things that should have worked right after the government took office was One Stop Shop, we had a promise that it would work in a month, two months, in a few months, 1. 2. In 2005, even to this day, one stop shop agency doesn't work. If, as the prime minister said in the pre-election campaign and when he proposed to the government here in 2003, it took 27 permits to open a company in Croatia, then today, 27 permits to be made, and one stop shop agency still remained in the middle, to stop and not know when to start. Or two examples from the functioning of two ministries, the Ministry of Economy has been collecting papers all year to build new entrepreneurship zones that this government has said should be around 400. Decisions on how much money anyone will receive arrived at local self-government units in December, money arrives in January. Money is related to what needs to be done in 2004. The same thing is with the Ministry of Defence, Family and Intergenerational Cooperation where the Associations of Disabled People reported to the competition, proposed projects, decided on how much money they received for the programmes in 2004 arrived in December, their money is still coming. And ultimately, the citizens really don't care how many ministers they're going to be in the government, they don't care how many vice presidents, how many state secretaries they're going to be, they want their standard to grow, they want their quality of life to increase. If the average salary in Croatia, or when the average salary in Croatia will be 2,000 euros, I am quite sure that citizens will be in favour of having 33 ministerial chairs if necessary. But we have 14 ministries today, but that's why we have a lot of state secretaries, than there were deputy ministers in the last government. And here today we heard that over the past year, 5,000 people from the State Administration were fired. Unfortunately, however, this did not lead to an increase in the efficiency of the State Administration. Citizens are really not interested in how many ministers we have, citizens are interested in how much the state administration pays and how effective this state administration will be in providing services to these citizens and in solving the problems that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have. For these reasons, but also because nothing really happens here, but because of certain personal solutions, the law is harmonised, I will not be able to support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32414	Thank you. Dear Representative Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32415	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, the other representatives of the government. We have heard a lot here so far, and my colleagues have already debated a lot before me about both the basic ideas and the reasons why we are changing this law and why again a year after, a year and two months after this mandate we are joining some ministries. It seems to me that the most right have been those who have been discussing or have been making statements in the media these days and who have represented the view that the only reason and most important reason for the merger of these two foreign affairs and European integration ministries has been hiding that it was quite well-determined by Picula in the humane misunderstanding within the HDZ itself. In this action of bringing together one and the other ministries, I am at all or least concerned that Europe will accept this reconstruction, because Europe seems to be much more concerned with the quality of the work done. What concerns me as a representative and as a citizen of this country is what is ours and what are Croatian problems, and it seems to me that there is a colleague Stazic in his discussion well defined these problems, especially now that we are in a phase of negotiations or before negotiations with the European Union, because the issue of European integration is now a primary issue that we must explain to ourselves and to discuss well with ourselves, especially if we know that the level of support among citizens for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union is at quite low levels and that there is a considerable European skepticism. So I think the prime minister himself, saying the opening letter on this law is quite well and very convincingly mentioned that one of the most important and greatest tasks that have been done so far and that should be done from this framework of European integration are those national forums that should travel through the county and explain to people what is actually in the euro integration processes. On the other hand, I also find it justified to affirm the views of all those who said that the issue of negotiations and negotiating positions in Croatia primarily means a good assessment of what is in Croatia and what is worth in Croatia. I don't want to be too long about it right now, but it seems to me that the decision to merge these two ministries is completely wrong, what has proved from experience in these years and two months, that these large ministries except that they act more handsomely on television that the government is smaller and more mobile, but in the very sense of denoperative, these ministries are large, trom and more often, or in general, administrative day-to-day jobs that mean a lot to both young people and associations and all others are significantly slower. It will not be good for foreign affairs, it will not be good for European integration in particular. However, the government and every prime minister have the right to define and legitimately establish their government as they wish, of course if they are supported in the Croatian Parliament. However, I, as a representative, cannot do so and will not support the vote. It is interesting that this law includes two more amendments that have shown that it is necessary to do so as a consequence of other laws and everything else. So I would suggest... and Secretary of State Palaric and the Prime Minister to try to listen to what I'm about to say, and that is to correct one mistake that we now have a chance to correct, as far as Article 3 is concerned. A law defining state institutions, as it has proved in the past year and two months of this term that the abolition of the State Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth has been lifted, has been made a completely wrong decision. We've shut down the State Department, and all the jobs from the State Department have been redistributed to the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. This would not be a problem all together if this formal reconstruction had no devastating impact on the implementation of policy towards young people and young people, but I am not going to talk about it now. The youngsters at the last State Institute had almost a third of the space, today young people from the position of the coordination of state policy are engaged in one single person within the youth department within the Department of Children and Youth as part of the family administration, which is now back in all major family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. Even a summer view of the web. The site of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity shows that there is nothing to do with young people in the last 6 months, there is only one news published in that topic, namely the announcement that there will be some meeting, and for example the list of interesting links that should be important for that population are only links to defense associations and from young people and "M" This all expensive institutional solutions would be no problem at all if the policy towards young people specifically being implemented, unfortunately not so. To me, Minister Kosor answered a parliamentary question a month ago that they still have no implementation programmes today, as well as that the implementation of the funding of existing projects has been stopped until they are reorganised in accordance with the new structure of the state administration. Youth funds have been cut by 5 million kuna in the 2004 budget compared to 2003. We completely abolished them in the budget for this year 2005. Those spent zero kunas we've already discussed a lot, it's not a topic now, and I'm not going to talk about it right now. But I think it is necessary to point out as an argument that institutional solutions are only important so much if they are not an obstacle to the implementation of officially established policies. I therefore propose to both the Prime Minister and the Government that since we are changing the existing Article 3. The law and where, as long as we form a new State Institute to form, to correct the fact that we made a mistake a year and two months ago to form and a state institute for young people, because it is not only the position of our opposition representatives, I know our government is not inclined to accept the proposals of opposition MPs. However, this opinion is formally expressed in the opinion of the Council of Europe advisory mission which has identified as a recommendation for Croatia, because we are the only country in Europe that does not have this, that a central co-ordination body should be set up to deal with the Government at the level of whether a special State Office or Government Office, because they also mention the problem of lack of coordination, and the realisation of youth policy. A similar unanimous conclusion was drawn from late November at a national youth programme conference in Croatia, where representatives of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity of education, science, education and sport with youth associations also recommended to the government and to our parliamentary representatives to form a special State Youth Institute. Since these amendments and amendments to the Law and Article 3 covered the formation of state institutions, I would ask you to also read as the Government a single amendment to this proposal, so that what we are in Croatia, in the Croatian Parliament, would not, in fact, finally begin to be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32416	Thank you. At 16 hours and 13 minutes, the time for the ten-minute hearing has elapsed. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32417	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Since a lot of things have already been said I will be very brief and here to make only a few findings since I have read this argument very carefully and this proposal. Unlike the arguments we had 11 months ago and a little bit more now in the context of the main and basic motto of this proposal is to continue the process of creating a rope and operating government. This is certainly one questionable argument because in just eleven months we have reduced the number of ministers from 19 to 14, tomorrow it will be 13. So, for six ministers. If this is a continuous process, it would not be good because, in a very short time, we will have a situation that the prime minister will not only be the first minister but also the only minister in the government. What's good about this argument is the fact that no longer used expressions of rationalization and savings. You won't find it anywhere, and I'm correcting Mr. Stazic because it's obvious today that it's neither rationalization nor savings. Eleven months ago, we had 160 officials with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Today, after reducing the number of ministers by five or six, we have 198 officials today. So we increased the number of officials in the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 24%. I expected to get an explanation today about a real reform of the government's body. However, I have not received such an explanation. I would certainly be one of those who would be very supportive if the prime minister proposed a reform in such a way as to make a positive selection of staff in the ministries and the authorities of the state administration that those who remain quality rewards should be stimulated to stay and thus increase the efficiency of the state administration. These proposals are absolutely not on that line. And finally, I agree with all those who have said that our timing is certainly not good when it comes to the abolition of the European Integration Ministry. My colleagues and colleagues, I am convinced that we have been premature with this decision for at least four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32418	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32419	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, dear Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues! I think that in this bill, amending the law is a good solution to form the State Nuclear Security Institute and the State Institute for Standardization and Measurement. However, the merger of these two so important and important ministries of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration in this decisive and delicate situation and moment for Croatia is certainly not a good solution. The reduction of the number of ministries is always met with great public approval because the public then rightly expects fewer ministries, and otherwise as state officials we are not popular with people and people simply consider it if there are fewer ministries that there are fewer obstacles to the administration they are facing, instead of just the ministry, we are all always, for that we are all verbally behind and we are saying that the ministries and state administration are the places where a citizen could find a solution to his daily problems and issues. So in this present situation as it was, and at the beginning of the term of office of this government, there is a reduction of ministries but what our citizens rightly expected to reduce the number of administrations, to reduce the number of officials, as well as officials and tenants, has not happened. However, that number has increased drastically. What is this exact number so that not only would weed the facts of the media I also asked a representative question on Christmas Eve of the year of the Lord 2004. I'm going to renovate it, that's just enough to remind the government maybe on the Big Friday if he wants to answer, but if he doesn't, we're going to be working with these media data but it's not necessary because it's obvious that the number of employees, tenants and the entire administration has increased. That's why it seems to me that this mini-reform procedure in this law is basically just a max tossing dust in the eyes. And here we remember the situation of a completely different occasion when a middle solution here in the Croatian Parliament was called a strange beak, so it is a real shame that from one of the most successful ministries, even through changes in government to this day, we are what we want to break its balance well. It is now a large mastodont that is difficult to manage in more peaceful situations, more stable situations, and let alone in situations where not only a reformal strong step is expected but a whole series of legislative initiatives and changes, and this ministry by nature and by logic of things, it is necessary in some way patronizing in this regard legislative adaptation of all other ministries. Therefore, it will be very difficult to complete one task, especially a leading man, in particular in the particular case of our minister, who will head the ministry, I say such a mastodon that is very difficult to manage. And if that were so unequivocal, it also shows the fact that, by creating this huge mega of the ministry, we have not solved the problems for many of our citizens, but have created new problems. It took a whole series of months for individual administrations, individual officials and tenants to find out what the ministry was falling under. Here, maybe if I don't say it in my mind, it's an unequivocal fact, we'll have a bill soon, because here comes the time to present an annual reward for promoting the rights of the child. And, behold, it took a year and a few months to find out that this job belongs to the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity and it is only one act, so more declarative where the state ultimately shows in such a solemn way that it really cares about promoting the interests of the child. And then what could be done specifically when it took a year and a few months to bring that formal part together. And how much more so in a whole series of laws where jurisdiction hasn't been changed yet. Unfortunately, this is not the act of granting public recognition, but rather the painful concrete solution of cases and specific situations, and then perhaps the whole mandate will pass and that will not change at all. Therefore, it is always good to go into changes in the structure and reconstruction of the government when all these previous changes are made and we have not made any changes from above and nothing has happened inside, but then the situation happens that we have destabilization of the systems and destabilising the ministries. I'm saying, it's not good at this point because as our media, we can say, someone can agree with it, but in some way, it's a clear impression that they don't have any human resources for this particular foreign ministry and that it's this way, a breakdown solution. Well, as it used to be, when Croatia was part of the Yugoslavia formation, it was a proverb that the Croat was reluctant to join the military, so it somehow really got the impression that the Croats were reluctant to go to the Croatian government. It is not a good impression for Europe either, because here it has been established that the Croatian government but in this we absolutely support it has played out on the map of Europe, this map of Europe is not only seen.../The speaker has turned off and re-enabled./... about the part but really as the need for a better breakthrough, Croatian affirmation, better life in Croatia itself. And it certainly doesn't carry that one, either, or the message, even though in the SDP, we personally don't consider that gesture to mean anything because they always come at the end of the bill whether it's someone who says it and really thinks it. Therefore, we think that this solution where two important and important ministries join together at this absent moment for Croatia is not good for the Croatian government, and more importantly it is not good for the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32420	Thank you. Dear representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32421	Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. What we have in front of us today is a formal, really 5th amendment and addition, i.e. a proposal to amend and supplement the Laws sent by this Government in the course of 14 months of its term of office. Every time we got this kind of amendment and supplementation, I answered my word, so unfortunately, I couldn't miss it this time either. And this time, as the first four times, I will repeat the same warning to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the first man to the Prime Minister. All these changes and additions, the formation and part-time work of the state administration that took place over the past 14 months are completely not systematic and are not the results of the desire to operate on the state administration, nor was it their goal, but unfortunately an attempt to call them some, let us call them popular political messages to acquire additional political problems. This time I think it is not about this, but that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is trying to solve some of its problems that are not at all about the efficiency or functioning of either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of European Integration but are quite another nature. I don't want to calculate even though the public is calculating that the real reason is that the Prime Minister couldn't find the right person for this place. Not that he couldn't find the person, but the right person to do the job in a good way. But they're calculations. What I want to warn this opportunity once again for the fifth time is.../The speaker turned off and subsequently turned on./... the rapid and reckless changes in the work of the body of the state administration cause a waste of time, one empty walk which, however little change is required to adapt the organization to the new organisation and part-round so far. During that time precious hours will be lost, precious days, precious energy of people who have very many other obligations at the moment. I will warn that the same or similar, or worse situation, I hope that this case will not be so in previously created globular ministries where, I'm sure ministers may not know that you ask them the names or last names of your assistants, let alone know how they work, what they do, and that they make the necessary communication with them. It's just not good. This results in a slower resolution of all state needs, slower doing all the jobs, reducing the efficiency of the state administration, and the only thing that can be recognised is that during the meeting of the Government at the table, fewer and fewer people are sitting. And that's the only benefit and everything else is the absolute damage that comes from these reckless changes, major organizations and important organizations that can't be done in this way. I will also make a serious criticism of a body that was created precisely to consider reorganisations in order for them to be meaningful and useful and it is about the central office of the state administration whose headman is sitting right here who, instead of designing a serious reorganisation of the government this year, has supervised all those ministries that have only been formally reorganised and are really not working at all because of this one reckless merger, he continues to support and apparently suggests to the Prime Minister such an unacceptable reorganisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32422	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32423	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I quote colleague Antunovic, said that the quick and unthinking decision of this government is the merger of the two ministries, the foreign ministry and European integration, is not true! It was a quick and irresponsible and undecided decision by Racan's government when she put you in charge of the Ministry of Defence and thus played with Croatian security.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32424	Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32425	Well, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues, I will be brief, I will not take the time, because there is about one block that does not support this proposal has already been declared, I may be a little clouded by this consent of SDP's young hawks with my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32426	They weren't hawks, they were doves. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32427	During the debate, we could hear vicious tones and ominous suggestions. One thing for me was for the Prime Minister to be foreign minister at the same time. I wonder how the debate would have been, then, if the HDZ, or the prime minister, had come up with such a proposal. I can imagine what kind of epithet would be at the expense of the proposer. On behalf of the Democratic Centre, I can say that we support this merger of these two ministries for the reasons that for Croatia's European integration both externally political and within the political issue and such a single merger, I believe that we will get greater and more functional efficiency and the resolution of all those issues and problems waiting for us in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32428	Thank you very much. Discussed representatives, Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader, final review, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32429	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, as you have seen with great care I have listened to all the arguments that you have made in the debates either on behalf of the clubs, or in individual discussions on the Government's proposal for the merger of these two ministries. So allow my comment at the end, as well as the answer to some of the proposals or some of the objections we heard today in the debate. First of all, Croatia, a country with 4 and a half million inhabitants cannot allow itself to have a huge administration and that this should start with everyone's head is clear. It teaches us experience, life, practice, history any way you want. And that's why this government came out of it. We, with 19 ministries as many as the previous government and 22 or 3 mins since there were several ministers and vice-presidents without portfolio, have reduced the number of ministries to 14 and today's decision, which I call on you to support it, we are reducing the number of ministries to 13. I remind you of what I said on December 23rd or December 22nd 2003 in the debate here. Germany, which has 80 million inhabitants or Austria, has 10 with which we can compare slightly more easily, have 12 or 13 ministries of the country. Why would Croatia have 19 ministries at 4 and a half million? It's not a question of demagogy. It's not a question of pulsism. It's a matter of simple consciousness and of itself that there are no mega ministries. Because if a minister in Germany with 80 million people or in Austria with 10 million people can have such large resources, and they're certainly big if there are 12 or 13, in Austria or Germany there's a different number, how could a minister not be in Croatia with 4 and a half million people at the head of what you call him, and I can also call him the Mega Ministry because this is the mega ministry just because we've put together a few who could have been connected before? Therefore, if the government is doing a useful job for the future of Croatia and for ours if you want this project both at this moment and in this matter and in this topic for a project of accession to the European Union, then these objections and yours, your criticism simply do not stand. Mr. Stazic said, "How will the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations do this if this goes away," for him is that if, I am sure that will go "how will it go with all its obligations and diplomatic and income and travel and behave all other things?" And I ask the question. How does the second foreign minister behave in another European country where there are also no two ministries but has one ministry with one strong secretary of state for Europe, European affairs or something like that? So if you can in these countries you can safely go to Croatia. So we're not more incompetent than these countries, are we? Because there are a lot more countries that have, which do not have the Ministry of European Integration than there are countries that have a special ministry of European integration. This is about comparisons with the European Union countries, so if you want to go outside the European Union, to European countries. So there is no reason for Croatia at this time not to bring these two ministries together precisely because of the reason I spoke in the opening statement. I've done a lot more than some who have reported today in the debate in creating Croatian diplomacy and I know what I'm talking about. It was also in the government before Racan's, both in Racan's and in today's overlapping business. Because simply the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, part of its work, also includes European integration. The fact that there was a ministry or that there was a European Integration Ministry did not exclude the foreign minister's action on the same plan. As much as possible. Ask your colleague Piculu, ask Mimica, ask Zuzul and Grabar-Kitarović or in the past period Jakovčić, Ljerko Mintas-Hodak. The foreign minister has always worked hard on European integration. So the overlap is in itself there. And it is not true that European integration, or the Ministry of European Integration, is only directed towards action on the internal agenda. It's one of the important tasks, but it's not just that. Secondly, they're funny, they're funny objections, they're looking for personnel, so they couldn't find them, so it took a long time to put it together. No, dear friends. A month and a few days ago in early January, I announced a government reconstruction in February. The Vice-President of the Parliament spoke on behalf of the HDZ and on a TV show. We announced a government reconstruction for February. And now, as far as I know this date and math right in mid-February, so we could go on my announcement for a few more weeks but we didn't want to. So we had if we had to double and triple the candidates than there were that we could propose them to the Croatian Parliament and that we would propose to these three tomorrow. We have God's thanks to the staff in both HDZ and outside HDZ, because in some important segments we should not only be focused on party membership as we have shown it and in this sense I simply have to reject it. But one more objection, a little more analysis. One of the SDP representatives said that Europe had heard what you were planning before us. So precisely because we are responsible for politics and responsible government precisely because they would not tell us or give us what another president of the HSS and some other MPs said, HNS President: "How will Europe react to this?" So that's why we went to hear the echo of these announcements. It was only an announcement to hear that Europe will react to this and with the explanation that I also presented to the President of the Commission, as I told Barroso, Commissioner for Enlargement, and these are the same arguments that I gave you today. Even what I am sure is said is said by it, the European Ministry of Integration will be strengthened. Because it's the Ministry today and when the Parliament accepts foreign affairs and European integration. And don't worry, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that this government and the Croatian Democratic Community and partners in the Government who support us in the Croatian Parliament will take care of Croatian interests. There were talks before the elections that if HDZ wins, Croatia will go into isolation. Adio Europe. It happened the other way around. In one three-step, we achieved and brought Croatia to the European Union's threshold. April avis, June candidate status, December date of the start of negotiations. Please, can such a government, can such a government be transferred even in the idea that it will do something to harm European ambitions? No way. So be still. We take care of everything. We are taking care of Croatia's interests and I am simply asking you to support this. I announced this at the meeting yesterday, at a meeting of the party presidents when we discussed the negotiating team and the formation of the National Committee and further plans in, in the stage of preparations for the start of negotiations and we will do everything we can to make the negotiations really start on 17 March. It's not a topic now, but I repeat, I wanted to correctly inform the presidents of the parties before it came to the parliamentary procedure even before the government made that decision yesterday afternoon. So much for that. I believe that all the efforts we make together and most of the parliamentary and parliamentary minorities in this project of approaching the Croatian Union are extremely important. There were good suggestions in the debate. I will refer to one more, and this is our joint work on, in this public debate with the public in which we really need in these next two and a half, three years to negotiate with the Union to clearly state the pro and the opposite reasons, to say what are the benefits, which may be harm or something else, minus, in Croatia's entry into full membership of the Union. It is a common task for all of us because, thanks to God, there is a great political consensus in Croatian politics and it is good that it is. And that is why it is necessary to continue this co-operation on, without going into speculation, there are no coalitions and HDZ and SDP will not be coalitiond. That's not gonna happen. But surely we can be mature enough politicians all together to rise above each other's political debates when it comes to such important national and political interests and objectives as Croatia's entry into the European Union. Ms. Lugaric said that when we had thought about this, we should consider amendments to this law and additions that the State Youth Institute should also consider. I'm going to say that it's covered, that the proposal is good and that we really need to seriously consider it. But also that the current Family Ministry is fully covering it, but we will seriously consider what this proposal would mean in the future. We have time, the Ministry of the Family covers it completely. Perhaps someone may be more or less satisfied, we are satisfied with the work of the Ministry of the Family. And in that sense, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you once again to bear in mind what I have said to you, which is that we are responsible for the government that is very much taking care of Croatian interests, which does everything that is useful for Croatia, and avoids doing what would be harmful to Croatia, to support this proposal from the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32430	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32431	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the Prime Minister who said that we've reduced the number of ministries from 14 to 13 and that that's how we reduced the government and reduced the administration. That's incorrect, Mr. Sanader. It's not true that we now have only fewer ministries formally, but we have more government officials, we have a lot more employees in the state administration. And that's how it says that you haven't sent an answer to our question since 12 months to see exactly what the number of employees is. According to our information, a lot more people now work in the state administration than they did in 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32432	And the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32433	In fact, the Prime Minister's incorrect claim that the administration of Racan's government was greater than the administration of your government. It's simply incorrect, because when you look at the number of state officials now they're more with it are greater separations from the state budget for their salaries, for their contributions, for their secretaries, for the drivers, for everything that goes with state officials. According to this, spending from the state budget is higher and the actual fact is that the actual number of officials is higher.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32434	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, so we're going to vote on this final bill. Please prepare the keys. The quorum will be determined with the keys. Please join us all. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, at least 77. Now please engage to check the quorum and determine the quorum. Please result in a quorum. 99. Then we'll go to the vote. First we have three amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32435	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-16-0.u32436	The amendments are by the government, all three are accepted and become an integral part of the law. Now we're going to vote on the law. Please engage. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that the Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing and delirious the central authorities of the state administration, together with the amendments adopted, has been adopted with 81 votes for, 3 abstentions and 22 against. ... Here you go. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's do it again, we'll do it again. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please engage. We can vote. What's wrong? It doesn't work for a coworker. [[Intruder: Minus does not work.]] So it doesn't work negative. How long was it last time? ... Take it easy, just like this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It was in that vote 81 was for, 3 abstentions and 22 against. So we're going to have to keep the abstentions moving against it, so it's going to be two abstentions and 23 against it. So we don't have to vote again, because we see what was the mistake. Don't work minus there. I therefore find that with 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and 23 against the adoption, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration has been adopted, together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. In accordance with Article 204(2), Rules of Procedure, I will propose to supplement the agenda of the 12th session to the point – a proposal to show confidence to individual members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the agenda? There isn't. I find that the addition of the agenda has been established. - A proposal to show confidence to individual members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Proposed to show confidence in Damir Polancec for his post as Deputy Prime Minister, Master Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic for his duties as Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and Dr Neven Ljubicic for his duties as Minister of Health and Social Welfare supplied by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Ivo Sanader. The Prime Minister also delivered reports on the discharge of Miomir Zuzul as Foreign Minister and Andrija Hebrang's post as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health and Social Care and Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic of the European Integration Minister. I'd like the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader, to take his word for it, please, Mr. President.
