ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u45841	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's exactly as the President of the Parliament said this morning we received information from the chief prosecutor who informed her that she had received news from Spain from official Spanish circles that Gotovina had been arrested in Spain. I will say on this occasion what I have repeated and just now in the open part of the session of the Croatian government and in front of Croatian cameras the arrest of Gotovina in Spain is a confirmation of what we have been saying, all Croatian institutions, the Croatian government and others that General Gotovina is not on the territory of Croatia, because we have witnessed often predications from different parts of the international community that have claimed that the Croatian state government is lying in this case, that he is not fully cooperating. Therefore, all of them were right to trust us in the past and support us when some of them doubted Croatia's efforts, and in this sense I would also like to say in this occasion that the case of Ante Gotovina is also about the rule of law in Croatia, that it is about that no one can be above and outside the law, it is about this Croatian Parliament, this House of Commons passed the Constitutional Act of Cooperation with the International Criminal Court in The Hague in April 1996, and this is our domestic legislation. There is also a obligation, of course, an international obligation in accordance with the Security Council resolutions, and Croatia is a member of the United Nations, so the rule of law says that no one can be above nor outside the law, and in that sense anyone who is accused should respond and face the indictment and, in that sense, it applies to everyone, but it is worth it and I will say it very clearly and presumption of innocence in any case, in each of the defendants and so on in the case of General Gotovina. For us in Croatia, the truth is also full of truth in the best interest, and for us it is true, and I think it is objective that the Homeland War was defensive, was liberating, was legitimate and was just. Croatia was a victim of great Serbian aggression, Croatia had the right to defend itself, it had the right to resist and it had the right to free its territory and these are unquestionable truths that no one will be able to bring down. On the other hand, all Croatian citizens who have been indicted by the Hague Court will benefit from the meaning of the instruments available to them, which is the instrument we have often talked about here to the girls, friends of the court, but through other legal mechanisms we will also provide within these legal mechanisms to defend the truth about the Homeland War as I have stated it and what we insist on in Croatia, because it is historical truth. Everything else is a matter of process, of course I repeat, as in all other indictees, and in this case we will, or all the accused Croatian citizens, give full assistance in terms of both the court's friends and the documents, but the rule of law requires that each accused face the indictment before the court and, in that sense, the Croatian Government will monitor a further course of action in this case and, if necessary, at the request of the Croatian Parliament, inform the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u45842	Thank you very much. We've been listening to this information. We continue to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights. Please, we haven't opened the debate, Mr. Djapic, we haven't opened a discussion on this subject. It's just.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u45843	In the name of the club, two sentences, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u45844	No, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u45845	But I'm also asking that I don't ask for a break without need so that I can show myself. So, I just want to say that we suggest that today we conclude the work of the assembly session, because there are a few important points ahead of us, and we at our club are not qualified to discuss mentally today rationally and calmly, and that is why, regardless of which, we will leave the session, tomorrow we will see each other at work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u45846	Okay. I beg your pardon, Agent Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u45847	So at this point, I think the Croatian opposition and government must show unity. I expect absolutely no earthquakes in the Republic of Croatia, although the Croatian public knows there was no other way out.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u45848	Okay. Thank you very much. We didn't open the debate, we received information. We're not discussing this. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. On the agenda - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees, second reading, P.Z. No. 295 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Ivica Buconjic will further explain the bill's proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51930	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! You have before you the final text of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on administrative fees. The reason for the adoption of this law was explained on the first question of this law. I will only briefly repeat the reasons for proposing the adoption of this amendment and supplement law. In fact, due to the excessive price of the tourist permit between Slovenia and Croatia, we went to the suspension of the administrative fee to reduce the cost of this tourist permit. It's the first change. The second amendment is then to delete the common border approval of members of the flight crew in the place of residence since it is not foreseen by the Borders Act. Then we went to a reduction in the administrative fee, a reduction in the amount of administrative fees for holding and carrying hunting sports weapons, and it was one of the amendments that was adopted. And what was most important was the harmonisation of this Law on Administrative Taxes with the new Law on Road Safety, since the concept of implementation or supervision of the conduct of car schools was also changed, so one part of the mandate was transferred from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and this Law on Road Safety was introduced by some new institutes such as test centres, safety driving centres, so that these amendments to the Law on Administrative Taxes were introduced and certain fees for these new institutes provided for by the Road Safety Act. These are briefly the most important changes, by saying that we have accepted the amendment that the authorisation fee for holding and carrying hunting sports weapons and ammunition during their stay in Croatia is reduced from 300 to 100 kuna because such practice is also in other countries of Europe, in the context of Croatia and since we consider hunting tourism to be one of the most important activities that Croatia should benefit from, so this is one of the contributions to the development of hunting tourism through the reduction of administrative fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51931	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Zivko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51932	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes, I would say, is a positive consequence of the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia on border traffic and cooperation, as well as of compliance with the Law on the Control of the State Border and the Road Safety Act. These short amendments in only a few articles are made depending on which the law harmonizes the exemption from payment of certain fees, the increase in certain charges and some the reduction as well as the introduction of new fees in accordance with the new law. I repeat, all mentioned agreements and compliance with those laws. In the first article, it is exempt from payment of the tax exemption application, of course by virtue of the positive legal rules which are indeed logical because the request for exemption has so far been paid, and it has come to it... either paid or paid a request for release. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Article 2, the authorisation fee for the holding and carrying of hunting sports weapons and ammunition during their stay in the Republic of Croatia is reduced in a way that is at the level of tax in the European Union and is reduced from 300 kuna to 100 kuna. In accordance with Article 3 of the Road Safety Act, fees for granting approvals for the implementation of the safety driving programme for road safety centres and car schools for safety management of vehicles are increased. In accordance with the same law, appropriate new fees for the issue or authorisation of a licence are also introduced, but not for the extension of those licences only, and are introduced for the purpose of carrying out a new fee, for carrying out the tasks of the technical examination of the vehicle, for training candidates for drivers, for enrolment in the car school register, for the authorised examiner, for the control of the technical regularity of the vehicle, for the registration of the vehicle, for the professional head of the car school, for the lecturer at school, for the driving instructor. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that these changes are necessary and high-quality, that this proposal for a second reading is of greater importance to the first reading and that we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51933	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51934	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HNS Club, I must say that we will not support such prices as are proposed for the change in tariff number 13, so for all that is being introduced new because we are not in reason, there is no explanation of what it will bring to the citizens. So you can't see anywhere what this increase is, say, in this article 7 of this paragraph 7 where the increase from 250 kuna to 3 thousand kuna, is about the technical examination of the vehicle for training candidates for drivers and enrolment in the car school register. I'm curious about how much it will collect technical checks and what it means for the end-user. We believe that this increase is too large and that this will in any case reflect on the prices of technical examinations. Also, these increases in the other and in the implementation of these new ones are considered to be too high a price for obtaining a licence. And let's also say for instructors, for lecturers, for professional leaders, it increases from 150 kuna to 500 kuna, and these new ones that are introduced for safe driving centres and for car safety management approval at car schools where that is 4 and 5 thousand kuna, which is, in any case, too much and we believe that this will ultimately lead to our price increase in car schools and increase the price of technical examination of the vehicle and therefore we will not support this. As far as Article 2 is concerned, where the price is reduced from 300 kuna to 100 kuna for the carrying of hunting sports weapons and ammunition during our stay in the Republic of Croatia, however, there is one principle note concerning the payment of these fees itself, meaning those taxis which, when any of us comes to pay any tax then raises a question in which place, where we pay and how we walk our citizens. So he comes to any kind of institution, any public institution, and then to pay any fee, then he has to walk nicely into town, so he can't pay it there, because he can't pay the so-called ones. He buys notes in a place where he should pay for nine kunas he has to walk to the kiosk or I don't know where to make 2 km to buy some notes. And in principle, we believe that this part should be solved differently or otherwise by issuing a space where it would be sold in a place where it should be paid or in some way resolved that this payment should be made at a place where it should be paid. Because if we can charge 10 kuna in the infirmary for recipes and instructions, then we can decide in any case that administrative fees are paid at the place where they are asked to be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51935	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51936	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is also the occasion when we are discussing the final draft law and amendments to the Law on Administrative Taxes, it is noted that during the coalition government it is on average a 50% reduction in administrative fees. When we discussed the first reading of this bill, there were here on behalf of the SDP Club, specifically from the mouth of Mr Mate Arlovic, remarks which were unfortunately not respected. What's this about? So, even in this final proposal that has just a few articles, we don't see here a social moment that the promoter didn't want to take into account and there's no valid explanation for it. Namely, for the approval and holding and carrying of hunting sports weapons and ammunition during their stay in the Republic of Croatia, the administrative fee is reduced from 300 kuna to 100 kuna. However, if we see what persons are usually involved, then it is not a problem for these people to pay 300 kuna, but here it is reduced to 100 kuna. However, we can also accept that logic that we are interested in getting as many people in this area as possible to deal with hunting, well whether they respect all the rules and so it may not be the subject now and that in such a way we are making it more tempting and that the fee is reduced from 300 to 100 kuna. It may be acceptable for this heading to be 13, i.e. Article 3, where the objections of our SDP Club are not respected, in order to reduce these charges. In its reasoning, the applicant states that administrative fees for the issue of these authorisations relate precisely to the economic activity, therefore, for this very reason, since it is a registration for the person to deal with the activity and because it is a compensation because, at the end of the day and by definition, it is in some way a compensation for the work of the state body but because it is only once, that is, it is obliged to pay that fee only once, and not later, to extend that amount to the sea, i.e. it should remain that way. However, if further, with all those and government announcements, it seems to me that this, however, is contrary to this proposal in terms of relief, therefore and registration, therefore, is not only the speed but also the payment of these administrative fees so that it is still like Croatia, as a developing country, the country of the economy if we really want to be credible in these declarations then this amount, these amounts 5000 kuna, 4000, 3000 kuna, as now proposed in Article 3 and amendments to heading 13 in paragraphs 5 and 6. should indeed be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51937	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51938	Dear Mr. President, I must remind you of the law on the system of state administration and these fees. Namely, the purpose of the administrative fees is for the Croatian citizen to reimburse the costs of the procedure of the authorities of the state administration when they act on its request. So that's the part, the citizen pays that part of the administrative fee in order to even begin the procedure. And now what's going on? According to the Law on the System of State Administration, which has neither worked nor former government, nor does this authority, no one is applying it, which is that the authorities of the State Administration are obliged to obtain by official duty all those official documents on which the official records are kept. Whether it's the housekeeper, whether it's the residence, or whatever it's about. And now we should think about what in such situations when a government body that has to do so is officially a force for citizens to go, in spite of the provisions of the State Administration System Act, to go after those documents that are being kept by official eyewitnesses. Therefore, it should be assumed that in such situations a part of the administrative fee is returned to the Croatian citizen because the authorities did not act according to the law and he paid for it. Therefore, let us, in this way, consider and strengthen the provision of the Law on the System of State Administration, that the authorities of the State Administration in the resolution are obliged by official duty to obtain documents, i.e. documents on which official records are kept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51939	Thank you. Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51940	Well, this may not have been a replica of my exposure, because in this part, I absolutely agree with my colleague that there is no reform of the state administration if the state authorities are officially in charge when they issue a certain right not to obtain for these needs, for the needs of that party, that citizen who asks for something from them all that is necessary and what they have a registration, or what they run the eyewitnesses or their own registers about. It's that networking problem and it's real fast, so that project, not just possibly one speed and a 20-day cut to five with respect to company registration. However, to return perhaps to the very theme of administrative fees here. You must know that during the coalition government a reduced administrative fee for registering a company of 50% were particularly sensitive to those who had 300 kunas too much so they asked it to be 150 kunas that set up here a company multinationally please, the company that forms a branch here. It was expensive for them. And you see, and we believe that it is generally our citizens that it is not expensive to give 5000 kuna or 4000 kuna for approval so that they can get a certificate of approval, a certificate for the implementation of a safe driving programme or for safe driving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51941	State secrets Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51942	Thank you very much. I agree with what the parliamentary representatives have said about the effectiveness of the state administration, however, the aim and intention of the amendment of this law is not in this direction, but above all is to coordinate with some of the life issues involved in cooperation with neighbouring Republic of Slovenia and above all with the changes that have taken place in the system of training in car schools, the adoption of a new Law on Road Safety. The adoption of the new Road Safety Act introduced a new concept of training and a new concept of monitoring of all participants involved in the process of training in car schools. There have already been some discussions in the first reading in the direction that the adoption of this Law will significantly accumulate training in auto-schools. I then denied it, and now I must refute it since it is the administrative fees that are introduced exclusively for the technical inspection and auto-school stations, or for the safety driving centres that are now being introduced for the first time, or which are provided for by the Road Safety Act. These amounts of 5 and 4 thousand kuna may seem too large but I must again point out that the bonds of these administrative fees will not be citizens but will be those legal and physical persons who, in accordance with the Road Safety Act, will be established by the security driving centres and the technical inspection stations. I will repeat that according to some calculations, the centres of safe driving or test centres will cost up to EUR 2, 3 million, and I ask the question whether it is really such a problem for that investor who will have to allocate so much funds for that test centre or for a school of safe driving, I repeat, 2 to 3 million Euros, to pay a single amount of administrative fee of 5 thousand kuna. Similarly, as regards the technical inspection station, it is also a one-time payment of 3000 kuna, and we have seen approximately what the revenues of the cells are for the technical examination, what the costs and this new administrative fee of 3000 kuna are in no way can and cannot and will not lead to the purchase or service of the stations for the technical examination or the costs of the technical examination for the citizens, nor for these centres of safe driving that are yet to be established. And I said that even during the first reading that all these measures are a segment of what this government and what the Ministry of Interior does to improve the state of transport security last year we reduced the number of deaths by 100 from 708 to 602. This year we still have 20 days until the end of the calendar year the trends are equally good and can happen and it is likely that for the first time in several years the number of people killed and killed in transport will be below 600, and I repeat, in 2003 there were 708 deaths. I am also trying to point out that this Law is also just one of the efforts made by the Ministry of Interior and the Government to make road safety, especially with regard to reducing the number of fatalities, significant shifts to make transport participation safer, in order to train new drivers as best and better possible. And in no way will the amendments to this Act increase the cost of citizens either as users of station services for technical examinations or as students of teaching in auto-schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51943	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51944	Mr. President, gentlemen representing the law, colleagues and colleagues. It is precisely this proposal that we have before us a good way of respecting the observations of parliamentary deputies because the difference between the solutions proposed by the final, final draft of the law in relation to the solutions set out in the bill is partly greatly respected. That is why I thank the promoter, because during the debate at the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Mate Arlovic's proposal was accepted, I am sorry that he was challenged today, to refer the proposed law to a regular procedure. In this regard, the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes was drawn up, which also accepted the proposal from Parliamentarians Mr Mate Štimec, Ivan Vukic, the Government of Jelkovec, who submitted the amendment to heading 11 of the tariff of administrative fees. Point 5 of heading 11 provides for an administrative fee for granting authorisation for the holding and carrying of hunting sports weapons and ammunition during their stay in the Republic of Croatia compared to 300 kuna. That amendment proposed a reduction of that amount to 100 kuna. This is very effective because we are charged by neighbouring countries as part of their regulations, EUR 10 per request. For example, in Serbia-Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina does not charge it at all so that it is in some way affecting competition in hunting tourism. It is also important to highlight and comply with the Road Safety Act, which has been in force since August 2004. Jobs of training candidates for drivers and driving exams have been arranged in a completely new way compared to the earlier applicable law. And also no less important and administrative and inspection supervision of training candidates for drivers and conducting driving exams transferred from the department's competence in the field of education affairs to the department of the interior ministry. Of course, that one, one change is very effective and appropriate. The Law on training of candidates for drivers is also listed as an activity of general interest. And the training is carried out by auto-schools if they are granted approval in accordance with the regulation on the criterion of the sufficient number of auto-schools. Those criteria are prescribed by the Minister of the Interior for review, on the proposal of an authorised expert organisation. The programme, implementation of the programme and the conditions and means of training candidates for drivers is also prescribed by the Ministry of the Interior, with the consent of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, and that regulation has been adopted. It is, of course, useful to point out and it is a termological alignment with the Road Safety Act and to prescribe administrative fees for carrying out new jobs prescribed by the same law. In particular, in accordance with the provisions of the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia on border traffic and cooperation and the provisions of Article 7, paragraph 2 are exempt from the payment of an administrative fee. A step that should always be respected, and of course, in this Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes, the fees from the field of education and culture are also mentioned, so one fully covered alignment is certainly what I believe has just been subdued as an error of the training permit, is not training, but is an appropriate expression of training of candidates for drivers. Therefore, it was also subsequently observed what the parliamentary representatives had already proposed, and what was adopted here by the Proposer of the Law, which provides for an administrative fee for the issue or authorisation of the licence of an authorised interrogator. It is necessary to delete this word of auto-school because authorised respondents are not auto-school employees but authorised professionals, which should still be further promoted in view of the large number of traffic accidents in young drivers so that trained candidates are ready to be involved in traffic, to respect road safety provisions and to be as such responsible for traffic and affect the reduction of the number of traffic accidents in which young drivers and young people are the most affected. This proposal should therefore be adopted and decided by the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51945	Thank you very much. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic, final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51946	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Finally, I must point out that I am glad that in this second issue there were no bile debates such as in the first reading, where I pointed out that it was not good to present information on the large collection of education fees, i.e. training in car schools as it was tried to present, that the introduction of these new administrative fees, i.e. the increase of existing training costs in car schools, I supported this in the first reading with a number of data and I can say that from the first reading to the present all those measures that the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the field of transport really give good results, which first of all looked at the number of road victims, in the number of seriously injured, in the number of traffic accidents and in the amounts of damage caused by traffic accidents. I want to reiterate that, although as I have said this time, there have been no such attempts to convince the public that there will be a substantial collection, that by adopting this law there will be absolutely no training gatherings in car schools or an increase in the cost of conducting a technical examination of the vehicle of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The increase in some administrative fees or the introduction of new ones relates exclusively to the technical inspection stations and the safety driving centres. They are one-off and they are really insignificant in relation to the costs of opening the centre of safe driving, or the station for technical inspection compared to their revenues and all other costs. As far as this first provision on the abolition of the administrative fee for tourism permits for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned, since Slovenians are the most frequent guests, we will also contribute to making this traffic easier between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, it will be cheaper to be more intense and, as regards the reduction of the administrative fee for weapons when entering the Republic of Croatia, we also believe that it will contribute to the development of hunting tourism, and thus to the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia. I must thank all the participants and in the first debate, i.e. in the first reading and today, and I believe that the adoption of this law will certainly take another step in introducing order into the area of training of car schools, in facilitating the traffic of citizens and people between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia and in the arrival of hunters as a significant tourist clientele in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51947	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees. I am voting on the final draft of the law. We can vote. The result? 74 for it. Six abstentions. 17 against. This proposed law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51950	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you a law that legally surrounds electronic business in the Republic of Croatia. He's primarily for the economy. It refers to both public authorities and individual users of electronic business, but it is in the first place, and I would like to stress this to the economy. It was also created in a close consultation with economic operators in the Republic of Croatia, and the most important thing in its creation was to take care of their needs. Before I explain the specifics of the law itself, you will allow me a shorter introduction to what is today electronic business in Croatia. It has a steady growth. In 2003, for example, this range was 86% higher than the year before and such a trend continues. Last year it reached a value of approximately 260 million US dollars. Most of the electronic transactions are precisely between businesses or business entities about 90% precisely which gives me an argument and a reason to say that this law is also intended for the economy in the first place. Today in Croatia you can buy almost anything electronically. What we are particularly pleased about is that in this segment, the most pronounced electronic business is in terms of tourism, which is of particular importance for Croatia as a tourist country, especially in its foreign appearance. Also, Internet banking represents one significant group of users around 16%, e-commerce about 8% with a strong growth trend. And e-Government is what we do in the government and in the Central State Office for E-Croatia. Here the "Hritro" was mentioned and I'm glad to hear of it and it was mentioned and I'm sure glad to hear about it and it was mentioned in the right way. The "HITRO" is certainly in the first row to import the system of state administration to the databases that must be made available in the fastest possible way to everyone in the public administration who uses it, and then to the citizens. I would like to say here that, of course, the counters are not primary, that the primary electronic business is both in the state administration and towards citizens and the availability of services on the Internet, but at the same time the counters have to stay in a different organised way so that this service is available to those who, for this reason or for that reason, do not want to or are not able to use the Internet. To go back to the law that lies before you. I've already talked about the existing legal framework for electronic business. It should be noted that its basis forms the Law on electronic signature and the Law on electronic trade. The law we propose aims to strengthen legal certainty in this segment. So to strengthen legal certainty in this segment. To a certain extent, the legal framework for electricity operations is, of course, the Law on Telecommunications of the Provisions of the Data Protection Act, as well as certain parts of consumer and criminal law laws, or the Law on the right to access information. We've all managed to make our own bill. The Electronic Correction Act itself regulates the use and transport of electronic documents in the Republic of Croatia. It shall arrange procedures related to the production, transport, storage and use and storage of information content embedded in electronic documents using information and communication equipment, computer and related programs and devices. The key category in the law is electronic signature and so on. Advanced electronic signature for which there is legal and physical infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. I would like to stress here that the electronic signature as such issued by an authorised financial agency does not mean that it must remain the sole publisher. There are international and Croatian regulations governing which institutions can and under what conditions become publishers of the signature. At this point it's FINA, he's accessing not yet quite popular enough and it's our job. As opportunities and needs are created, so will this electronic signature and the cards on which it is located. smart cards to be more interesting and accessible to people. Therefore, the electronic signature is incorporated into the electronic document and it is as such determined. It shall ensure the credibility and validity of the electronic document. The identity of the signatories as well as the inviolability, i.e. the irreversibility of the content of the electronic document. The law lays down the basic conditions and procedures, both the use and storage of electronic documents. It shall be ensured that the authenticity and inability to evaporate during the time specified as the mandatory period of storage of the documents. The law is, you have a final proposal for the text of the law. I want to say that many have participated in his work, I have said from economic operators to lawyers to public administration experts. And I think we've come to a really good text. From first reading to second reading, we carefully considered all the suggestions we received. What you noticed the biggest difference between the first and second reading was the name of the law changed by the name of the Law on Electronic Document in the Law on Electronic Correction. That's where we actually got some support from the Central State Office because at first we thought about it, but there were some legal objections whether the document might not have a rope meaning in the legal sense, so in that case there might be some confusion. We felt that this was not the case, but here we have confirmed that in order to avoid any confusion, in fact, in the law itself, we have defined exactly what is thought to be done by electronic means, that there would be no further misunderstandings and thus we have also met the requirement shown in the first reading, which is that this law does not exclude multimedia documents. In addition, the final proposal for a law makes it more clear the provisions which determine the certificate of application, as well as the time of dispatch and the reception of electronic documents. An improvement has been carried out... provisions which determine the originator and the image of electronic documents on paper and also changes which make it more clear to the public authority's concept, as well as the use of electronic documents in procedures conducted before public authorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other part mainly refers to the demonstration, the clearer presentation of the content of certain provisions and the necessary nomotechnical improvements. In conclusion, I will just say that this law, in addition to everything I have stated, is also considered one of the most important points, the elements of the implementation of the programme is Croatia. It is our mission in line with the European Agenda and what we have identified as our needs, systematically promote the first use of the Internet in Croatia, the use of broadband Internet in Croatia and then areas such as e-education, e-public administration and e-Health, and in the area of so-called. e-business is a task of the state, it is the government's job to create favourable frameworks to encourage this business. This law is one of the key measures in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51951	Thank you. Legislative Committee, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and political system, information, information and media. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51952	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia is now and in the near future based on the development and application of information and communication technology. It also becomes a fundamental driver of almost all economic, social, political and other processes, and a leading instrument of interconnecting business entities regardless of their place of action, residence and time of current action. Information and communication technology is used as a tool to improve business activities and is used by more and more business entities, as well as public administration bodies. It is therefore necessary to create a specific legal environment that will provide a sufficient level of security and protection of such a business. The regulation of the legal framework to facilitate equal participation in the development of the information society, and the benefits it brings is one of the basic objectives of the e-Croatia 2007 programme. The implementation of the e-Croatian programme takes place in other areas, such as the information of the judiciary, e-gruntovnica, informing the education system, as all schools are connected to the Internet. The HItro HR service presents company registration and craft services, e-REGOS electronic handover of forms, then e-katastar data viewer, and soon as announced e-DV service will also be presented. In the following year, the Central State Office for e-Croatia increased resources in the state budget on information activities by more than 20%. After 832 million kuna was allocated from the budget in 2005, the funds amounted to HRK 1,142 billion for 2006, which is a significant increase. Increasing investment in technology development must be one of our priorities, as well as ensuring that resources are invested in real projects. Among the funds planned in the budget for next year on information projects, I would like to highlight two particularly important projects. The first is the final realization of the HItro NET network, a project that has waited for more than 10 years for a decision to launch. Realisations of this network will allow further development of electronic public administration, but unlike current practices, public administration authorities will now be enabled to communicate with each other in a closed network under extremely favourable conditions. Another extremely important project is the HItro HR programme, which also implements the reform of the way the state administration works. HITRO HR will soon allow the provision of state administration services via the Internet. The final proposal of the Law on Electronic Correction is therefore another step forward on this road and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51953	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51954	Thank you, Mr. President. The HNS club is, in any case, I don't know how to say it the least or best, we're too pleased with the way the Central State Office works in need of commending the way it works and the way this law is passed because it's seen when politics is separated from the profession that a very high-quality and very good bill can be done and it's happening now. The first to respect the principle that it was not an emergency procedure, but it went into two readings, and the promoter adopted a large number of remarks in the second reading. And I have to say that we at the club are satisfied with this kind of work and I want to say a few words now about the bill itself and the way the proposer has adopted it all. We know that the continued growth of e-business in Croatia and lately much more than it has been in recent years conditioned that some legal frameworks are passed in such a way as to deal with the Internet and telecommunications technologies. So we know that Internet banking is first of all, and we know that a large number of businesses, a large number of orders in tourism are carried out through and also payments in tourism working on the Internet, and that is what can in any case contribute to the development of the economy in Croatia and the things we have already brought to this is the Law on Electronic Signature and the Law on Electronic Trade, in any case, contribute to that, and the legal framework for all to be true is also with this Law on Electronic Correction. The fact that he didn't enter the emergency business is just saying that politics wasn't in it, because we know that 80% of the law in the House was passed by an emergency procedure, and here we had a chance to make our remarks and a large number of objections was proposed and adopted. I, for example, asked in the first reading several of my remarks, so it was a matter of multimedia, it was settled in the proposal. So it was only a matter of time before the reception, and that's settled. So there were questions of software and hardware minimum and it was far better solved. I know this is a new area and I know that many things will have to be resolved in walking and that we will have to change the law, but in any case this is a good try, a good start to a new area legally regulated and the HNS club will support this bill and this way of passing the law always not just now, support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51955	Thank you. A SDP representative club, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51956	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The SDP club supports the adoption of this proposal for an electronic correction law. It is also to praise that here the promoter has adopted the remarks that have come from SDP's representatives to fix the proposal no-technically, and in his own respect of Croatian legal expression and compliance with our other legal norms and language used there. In this way, not only did we become clearer and more credible, but the very proposal for a law intended for citizens thus became clearer and more accessible. That is always the subject of the proposal and we, as a legislative body, must always keep in mind that the laws we make clear to those to whom they apply, as well as those who apply them. As we heard from the motionor himself, the government believes that this bill is primarily intended for the economy, but also for the authorities of the state. Of course, the economy, which is often making significant progress in many innovations, as well as in the business itself, and in the way of communication, rather than the authorities. But we don't see why we're at the SDP club, which is why it would be so. On its own, when the government set up a quick HR, we think that what should be done urgently is precisely to facilitate business with citizens and that communication not to be one-way. So we see now both in the announcements and emergency VAT, so all that's useful to the citizens themselves, and it primarily goes towards filling the state budget, that's what's going to happen sooner. However, we warn that it would be useful for this development to go hand in hand, so that all benefits and benefits, or needs, must be shared in a very effective way by the citizen himself. In this sense, as has already been said several times in many laws that only touch the efficiency of the state administration in some way, and here is the subject of this previous issue of reducing, i.e. increasing certain tariff items in terms of administrative fees, it has been pointed out, and here we now, in the name of the club especially from the SDP club, in particular, stress that there is no real reform, the state administration unless all the registers that the state has. This primarily facilitates the work of the state administration itself and which benefits citizens from, should not be much emphasised. So many times this electronic data processing project was mentioned, which began in 2002 when we raised a large loan from the World Bank of 27 million euros and where each year the state allocates a large part of the funds to this particular purpose. However, we note that if these extracts are not useful in terms not only of information but also of the use of such a document which is still not a document and a document, because it cannot serve in legal traffic, then we are only essentially halfway through. Basically, the question arises whether these funds are spent precisely to rewrite the land book in electronic form if it is not consistent with the disaster, or if the data in it are not credible. So it was originally designed to transform into an electronic form, an electronic form just what is credible, and then further upgrade the entire system. And what's most important in this particular sense is that the citizen is able to use that information by electronic means by the authority of the state or public authority to use it in legal traffic. An outstanding example may have been arranged to perfection in the very town of Singapore where a man should not leave the house without absolutely all the affairs of the state administration and the city’s local authorities being solved. So, and the birth certificate, the death report, the wedding, everything is possible from the house. Of course, the state would not lose its fee, or fee, on that occasion, because it would also be resolved by electronic means. In this sense, I think there are some special difficulties and there shouldn't be. Of course, it takes political will, it declares itself and we support it. However, we draw attention to the fact that this law, which is concrete only on electronic correction, would be applicable, that is, to all those benefits not only in the economy but above all in terms of the efficiency of the state administration body, it is necessary to provide considerable resources. Therefore, this application, or only the adoption of this law, will not be a little confusing. They will not demand if we just pass the law and then the question is how it will continue to develop, or apply in practice. So maybe the government should, I believe, have secured funds right in the Central State Office for E-Croatia that should be in our own and above all, in our opinion, in the SDP Club's view dealing with networking of the system itself, but it is certain that no matter how much funds there are and set out that the amount of resources required requires the concrete application of this proposal for the Law on Electronic Correction itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51957	Thank you. IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51958	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The IDS Club will support this Electronic Correction Act. In January 2002, the Republic of Croatia began the process of creating a legal environment necessary for the successful creation, operation and development of the information society. The adopted provisions of the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union also require a specific legal system in which the area of electronic business, together with the legal validity of electronic documents, is to be laid down as a basis for the adoption of this Act. Since the Law on the Electronic Correction is governed by the use and transport of electronic documents in the Republic of Croatia and is proposed to regulate procedures related to the production, transport, use, storage and storage of informational contents embedded in electronic documents, with the use of information and communication equipment, we must count on it to take account of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken a step with the office "quick.hr". However, by users we must count that all users are not in the same position and that all users do not have the ability to use "quickly.hr" when it is the closest and most important to them at the first moment. Therefore, if this Law proposes and wants to create the trust of the highest public and the use and exchange of electronic documents through open telecommunications systems, while at the same time seeking to create a space for more intensive action of the electronic business system that is increasingly becoming imperative to achieve competitiveness on the world market, and we know that the Republic of Croatia is taking major steps in competitiveness and is likely to impose itself in competitiveness at this moment, this proposal for a law is one of those steps that the Republic of Croatia must take in order to be as close to the European Union and thus engage in all the lives of today's modern Europe. The adoption of this Law on Electronic Correction and the operation of the already existing Law on Electronic Signature and the Law on Electronic Trade will allow public, uninterrupted and legally justified use, the exchange of electronic documents with the creation of public trust in the operation of the electronic device institution. Which, I hope, will create a space for the intensive operation of the electronic business system and the development of the electronic administration. In some cities, large steps have been taken with the coordination of catasters and land books. Of course, here I also point out from this pay phone, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would try to arrange itself in the cities of the catastra, edit it in a way and create things the way they really are on the ground, so that the cadastre and the land books could in any case agree not to have problems with such a way, so that data transfer can extract ownership data. So, harmonised land books and the cataster itself. Thank you very much. The IDS Club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51959	Thank you. HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51960	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, like other clubs, the HSS Club will support the Final Proposal for the Electronic Correction Act. So here's the last time we talked about the Proposal for this Law, we said that in the 21st century it was necessary to have the matter spoken of by this Law that was more urgently regulated. It's precisely because today's increasing use of the electronic document, the correcting of our daily life. When I talked about it then I showed that we always keep a laptop on one side, and on the other side we still have a lot of paper to wear to prove that some document is valid. And here today, all of us who use computers here in Parliament and Mr. President would ask us to have a better job here, because our data is slow, we have to wait a long time, and often it happens to us that we can't even get involved here in the assembly with our laptops so that we can work normally because our relationships are weak. And I think we need to single out a part of the resources here to get a better network and we can use it better. Here, it's my appeal to all of us to get the opportunity to use electronics here in the assembly as soon as possible. When we look at the situation in that branch in similar, other institutions, then we see, and the secretary of state mentioned that one large percentage, a complete ratio of use in the economy, especially in tourism, banking and other branches where it is clear that it will be more and more and that it is necessary to enable us to get to quality data as quickly as possible and to use them. It is important to mention that even after the adoption of this Act by myself and by my colleagues who work in information in the Croatian forests, we will still have problems to determine whether all the documents we receive are valid. Do you sign in the right way. And we're still going to have to use it to check some of the documents in a way that we can get a mailing list of papers on which that contract will be signed. And we won't even be able to use this law as an electronic document once it's passed. Although, I say, there is still a question in this part of the proposal that the signature and verification of the signature will be made in certain contracts, with certain correspondence between certain companies. And that part raises the question whether it's enough just to have one institution, even though it's indicated that others can be formed independently here. But I think it's necessary to allow us to get independent institutions to verify those signatures as soon as possible. If we just rely on FINA as a state-owned company then I don't think it's going to be biased and in that part we should look up to what our banks today have, and these are foreign institutions where these signatures are being verified. In that part, I think it's necessary, and here it's said that there won't be any additional resources. It seems to me that he wants to implement this Act and it is expected that in this segment we will have to have certain changes very quickly because the change in that dam is one of the fastest and what we are talking about today will already be obsolete tomorrow and we will have to very soon whether under the laws, whether through some other means to change this terminology in accordance with the condition that it will be then and therefore I think that it is necessary to regularly monitor it in the institutions that are in charge of it, in order to get as soon and quality electronic documents, in the right way, and not that we have to lag behind Europe in doing so, and this has often been the case today, after all, in 2005, and we are only now passing the Law on the electronic device, and in that section I would like to wish that we, through the progress left behind in this dam, too, that the legal regulation is being followed, because only in this way, we will be able to follow those trends which are presently in Europe. I appreciate the fact that the bill was sent to a regular procedure and here we adopted it in a month with certain... which were and most of them were adopted, and therefore, the HSS Club will support the adoption of this Act as its final proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51961	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51962	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. And the Croatian party club will also support the adoption of this Act, you know that we have a project of a folk computer, that project we have exposed in parliamentary elections and it is obvious that it will also have to be in accordance with this Law in order for it to be applicable, to be implemented, to carry out a full description within the population in Croatia so that all citizens can use what the Law on Electronic Correction provides. But right now, I have to say at the beginning, which is the essence of this law, no one has pointed it out yet, and that is that by this law we are actually going to influence the reduction of corruption because all things will be done directly without coming into various offices. The SDP club was just talking about the "Singapura" case, but the introduction of all of this in "Singapura" has made it precisely that there has been a reduction in corruption and a significant percentage of the previous situations that have occurred, but we must be aware that we will have to do within the body of the state administration, i.e. the state government's major shift, means... the employees themselves who work in all these offices in order to be enforceable in practice, and we have just talked about the Law on Administrative Taxes, and now we will come to that variant when the authorities of the state administration act in resolving citizens' demands, but we have to collect all the evidence by official duty, all the documents on which official records are being kept, i.e. official eyewitnesses, but the situation within the body of the state government is not good for us to obtain information equipment because there are all kinds of things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This attempted to correct the former government, and at the head of that project was Mr. Granic, who was at that time the Deputy Prime Minister, but these contracts that were concluded as obtained, it was a system of leesing and everything else, I think it should be investigated well because there were huge costs for all the bodies of the state administration, I know what the situation was in the state inspectorate, that it was far away, because the state inspectorate had been updated in that part, and that equipment provided by the government, and at the head was Goran Granic had been collected and there was no great benefit, or only great expenditures, and then he even always warned that it should be paid in time to IBM and others, and there was no benefit and service. It is therefore important to import the information system within the state authority so that it is complete and that data exchange can be carried out, but it is now interesting that no one has mentioned the security problem. The security problem here no one has mentioned, we're opening up in terms of electronic documents, and what's our protection? The problem of protection is pretty big. When I was asked in time when the hackers entered the State Department system, or the U.S. Army, could that happen to us? I said it can't happen because the Department of Defense doesn't have systems, so nothing can be stolen from their data. And now we're coming into a situation that we're really going to set up a system, but we need to take care of protection because it's possible if there's no adequate protection and various counterfeiting and all the other situations, and then it can happen to us to move forward, and we're actually going to go back two steps if we don't secure the entire protection system and the security system. In this area today, everyone in Croatia and everyone in Croatia is engaged, but what is our data protection, and in the system there will be normal secret information that represents both state secret and military secret and business secret. We must be aware that the main objective now and on you as representatives of the Government and the Government is to resolve this system, the security system of protection and disabling, although it is quite difficult today, but the security level must rise to as high a level as possible, it must be seen exactly who and how it can come into the situation to enter the databases and within each body of the state government and within the framework of... Especially when it comes to the work of security services, when it comes to the Ministry of Defence, when it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the IRS, not to say to the police about the processing of the crimes committed and everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the step is, this is a big step for Croatia's future and to prevent corruption, and it's in line with our project, the National Computer, but we have this obligation to ensure effective protection because without it there will be nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51963	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word on this subject. Dear Representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51964	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By passing this Act, Croatia is heading towards an information society. I say go, but when we really get there it's a question that should probably be of interest to each of us. The question is whether or not this Law on an electronic document, is it one that will significantly accelerate our path towards an information society, or whether this is the only move that we need to make in order to get there faster into our targeted information society. According to the information you can find in the press almost daily, Croatia is significantly lagging behind on its way to the information society today, let's say that in this year it is estimated that Croatia will increase the meaning of this IT sector by about 6% compared to the last year that was about 2% higher, but when compared with the countries of the European Union, the countries of our western environment are here in a significant lag. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned here in his opening address that this law is intended for the economy, above all and the bodies of the public authority. It is a good orientation since we also have a national conference on the subject of "Croatia towards the knowledge economy". No Croatia as a knowledge economy, no Croatia as a knowledge society clearly without education. And my debate is actually going to be about whether these goals that are defined in this law here are going to be possible in the way that they are actually planned. Whether this law will first and foremost achieve the objectives of public trust, use and exchange of electronic documents. Furthermore, whether Croatia will become more competitive on the world market, i.e. if there will be a more rapid, smoother and technological development of electronic business. Given how we set ourselves these three goals and how we are in view of the level of information literacy in Croatia, I am afraid that we should do a lot more of these and other moves and do it in order to achieve these goals. And it seems to me that without some additional investment in the informational description of the population that we will not be able to achieve these objectives so quickly and that we will continue to lag behind the countries of the European Union. I've already made one conclusion here that I'm about to read. So it seems to me that we should oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose within six months a strategy for the basic informational description of the population in the use of information technologies to the Croatian Parliament. Because without this additional investment in people's education, especially those who have lost their jobs, who have low salaries, who can't allocate funds for their additional education, they're already a little in many of their needs that they can't achieve, they've become self-registrated. So, more investment is needed in this informational description of the population, especially those who are socially endangered, which have the meaning of employment problems, people who, for example, cannot get a job at 45 and many companies are economically asking for knowledge from IT. So why do I still need to say it? It is necessary that the man who is being employed in this company tomorrow, who knows, has knowledge of IT, will be able to be useful to the company itself, will be able, will know how to create, create this electronic document that we bring here, or prescribe the conditions and rules by which it will work and act. And on the other hand, if we expand this population that has information skills, people will be able to benefit from the advantages of the electronic document. It is also mentioned here, for example, a cadastre, a grantovnica, people will be able to come through the Internet, through these modern information technologies to the document, look, see and then ask to get a print of this document. So, all these goals set here can be achieved in quality and Croatia can move faster towards a knowledge society, especially information knowledge as much as we invest in people, means in this population of our citizens who do not have the means to further educate themselves. So the state needs to make a strategy, make a plan, help our people train to use these modern technologies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51965	Thank you. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51966	Dear Mr. President, I must say that I support this proposal by a respected colleague of Piplovic, but note, I say such a programme already exists, there is no need for the government to work on any new programme. The programme has already been made by the Croatian right party. It's called the National Computer program. He's whole from "A" to "Z" and we're already treating him in accordance with financial opportunities and we're willing to normally give him to the government to go into full realization in order to achieve what you say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51967	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51968	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Proposer's representative! I believe that the final proposal of the Law on Electronic Correction is another step in accepting European and global standards in business and that is consistent with the development of technology and all the techniques that actually exist even more by exploiting man. What is particularly useful is the differences between the solutions proposed by this final proposal and the reasons why these differences have arisen. Of course, it is important to point out that different names do not have to be accepted as they are called in one of the foreign languages, but if there is a certain word in the Croatian literary language, then the effort should be made to use it. It's also very important in the title of the law. Therefore, the promoter needs to thank him specifically for not having failed, which was able to crush the speed in the adoption of excellent laws, has not failed and has given himself additional effort and has accepted a principled remark and a proposal to change the word "document" in the word "correction" both in the name of the law and in the whole text, and that certain terms are consistent with the Croatian language expression. The other day we were just discussing textbooks, we were talking about Croatian culture, about cultural heritage, and this is one of the contributions and contribution to how to protect the Croatian literary language rich in Croatian literature culture from Gundulić, Hannibal Lucić, Hektorović and until today's modernist. The applicant also fully accepted this proposal and made the appropriate amendments that were incorporated into the final proposal, and therefore this law is also called the Law on the Electronic Correction. What delights especially lawyers who work daily on the technological alignment of their business is also the introduction of nomotechnically clean and clear in a law that does not count too many articles but only as much as it takes 29 with final provisions. It is said that the electronic document has the same legal force as the document if its use and traffic are implemented in accordance with the provisions of this law. Therefore, both the natural and legal person who has accepted the use and transport of electronic documents cannot refuse the electronic correctness only because it is made up, used and transported in electronic form. Electronic signature where one precise, accurate way of saying what is actually an advanced electronic signature set out in the Law on Electronic Signature and which reliably guarantees the identity of the signatories and complies with the requirements set out in Article 4. The e-signature bill. Accurateness, of course, when it comes to electronics, which lawyers should increasingly accept and use in everyday legal speech. The electronic document from Article 5 to Article 13 is spoken very comprehensively, which actually means not only for those who like to trade on the Internet but those who use themselves daily and at a rate in their own business delete borders. It seems to me that this is another law in a series that the Proposer has really done in one real way, suggested, agreed on our debate. And I would therefore return to express languages where certification is also replaced by a very clear and Croatian word and a series of nomotechnical provisions that should be studied with more due respect and depth and thoughtfulness, read and then used in daily speech so that our speech would not impair the introduction of new technological and technical names if we had our own domestic written Croatian word. Therefore, support for this Law, and support to the promoter, are present here to insist that the laws are indeed an image and opportunity of modern Croatian society, language and technological achievement.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51969	Thank you. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51970	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on the Electronic Correction and which is significantly corrected in relation to the first reading, we see that the name of the Law is also in line with the proposals and remarks made on the Committee on Legislatives and therefore a better text is important than it was in the first reading. There is no doubt that the economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia is today based on the development and application of information and communication technology. It becomes a fundamental driver of almost all economic, social, political and other processes, and a leading instrument of interconnecting business entities regardless of their place of action, residence and time of current operation. Information and communication technology is used as a means of improving business activities and is used by more and more business entities and the authorities of the state administration, which is very important and very important. It is therefore necessary to create a specific legal environment, a specific legal framework that will provide sufficient level of security and protection of such a way of doing business. Although electronic operations can also be implemented without laws, it is actually carried out today in some segments, i.e. it is not laws or other regulations that determine whether or not someone will do business using information communication technology. There is still a problem with this kind of business of legal uncertainty which significantly slows down the growth of this type of business. The adoption of this Electronic Correction Act, with the action of the laws already adopted and the Law on Electronic Trade, will allow public, uninterrupted, and legally justified use and exchange of electronic documents to create the trust of the highest public in the operation of the electronic device institution. A very important and central category here is certainly an electronic signature that is built into an electronic device and ensures the credibility and validity of the electronic element. This will create a space for the intensive operation of the electronic business system and for the development of the electronic administration. It also creates a basis for the wider use of the electronic business system and the provision of public services via the Internet on business entities to more intensively accept electronic business as already started in the state administration through the start-up of implementation projects quickly.hr and open public systems of electronic land books. The common feature for all emerging forms of electronic business is their increasing independence on paper media, as documents are produced, exchanged and archived in electronic form. The problem arises when a specific activity supported by electronic operations wants to be completed. Today's legal instruments continue to seek the current processing and transport of documents on paper, which often means views of already made electronic copies. This Proposal for a Law legally regulates these and other issues related to the use and transport of electronic documents in the Republic of Croatia. As much as this area is significantly spoken and some indicators and this is almost every other household, namely 47% in the Republic of Croatia owns a personal computer, the Internet uses 1.2 million citizens and slightly less than 20% of them use one of the electronic business services. This means that nearly 240 thousand citizens buy, pay bills, arrange travel arrangements via the Internet. Croatia recorded a steady growth in the segment, and last year reached the range of this type of business of around $263m, meaning 85.9% more than in 2003. In Croatia today, everything can be done on the Internet, almost anything, from banking services, tourist arrangements and an increasing number of companies are starting to use each other in all forms of electronic business. Therefore, as an institutional framework of this kind of business, this law is in any case welcome and provides one security and, in any case, colleagues who have said that special attention is needed in this Law and in this type of business to be paid to protection, this is really very important and I think in every sense that it is very correct and that one significant step towards informing both our administration and the creation of a correct, legislative framework. The law is improved in terms of first reading, both nomotechnically and in every sense, and I therefore fully support this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51971	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51972	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. This is one of those laws that you simply have no reason not to support. Which means this House is going to unanimously support this bill. But this is not a law that requires something special to be expected from, not in the sense of encouragement, especially in terms of broader expectations. Namely, this is one of those laws that marks our view of the future, they join us and prove that Croatia is watching the future equally awakely together with all those countries that we are historically belonging to and which we are now approaching. How the electronic business whose enviable growth in Croatia can be characterized by the adoption of the Law on Electronic Signature in 2002, by the adoption of the Law on Electronic Trade and clearly by all the legal and practical events that followed. Of course, they changed their way of life, they changed their ways and customs, they made life easier and they created a part, in part of our citizens a easier picture and easier way to get to, on one side of the most interesting data, how to get involved in the payment system, and to stand at home? How can you make it easier for yourself to communicate with public administration authorities? And that, of course, created one positive, positive atmosphere again, I say, but in a particular sense. It didn't cover the community, but of course at the beginning I said we can't expect from this law what he can't give. Since preschool education it is necessary for generations to come to know, to create conditions, but to create these conditions for all. These conditions must be available equally in municipalities that have the smallest budget or structures of those of our citizens who fight for survival if we want to create a knowledge society. Knowledge society is a prerequisite for achieving all those aspirations because of course you know one of those great Croatian illusions or delusions is certain by entering the European Union we will solve all our economic problems. And the other one was we have an extremely good and highly educated quality power and we will easily cut taxes. It's not a problem, and we'll increase the salary even easier. So almost groups in government structures only competed who would increase wages more in the period when it was free to make such promises. Of course, the delusion was that Croatia was also super-attractive to foreign investment. Of course it's not like that. Of course, the creation of an active position in these segments will give us exactly the swing and the creation of a real electronic trade in Croatia in the full sense of the word. In full sense, it can be consumed that you can actually get from the public administration body and that with what your colleagues have said you have prevented and corrupt forms because this kind of business in itself predominates this step in which corrupt forms appear. Therefore, this system of active behaviour is necessary to work in all segments. From preschool education through education because education and education and prevention is something that is important in order to gain the power of knowledge. The power of knowledge today is a crucial word in any world economy that is successfully dealing with all problems and whose growth rates do not need to be 10.12% in order for that nation to enjoy the status of modern, successful and those in which employment is not a problem. That is why, of course, these strategic objectives, which will be a continuation of what we are discussing today from the level of education and employment, will depend on how much, when and how we will be able to apply business, electronic business, to what extent will the availability of public authorities on behalf of citizens be fully consumed and to what extent will we all use these tools together? These are the tools for getting to the goals. The objectives in the economy are employment, profit and job creation. And these tools just have to help us get there. They cannot in themselves remove the reasons why today, if we are in bad shape, are the culprits of that condition. That is why I said at the outset that this is one of the tools in which life should be arranged, the way it is done, and not expected from it, because in a year we will say, "Here you see this bill that we have adopted unanimously in the Croatian Parliament has not achieved its objectives." This bill cannot achieve its objectives. He's a tool. He needs to be known to use, he needs to clearly what Pero said, he must have his own security aspect. It is not polite, nor good that public authorities have different programmes. Well then one is leaning on this network, the other one on this network, the third one on this network, and you don't have an integral connection that can, that public authorities can communicate with citizens in a simple way. And then you practically have something that's even worse than having papers. So we invest a lot of money in electronic equipment, and we didn't make a strategy and we said we rely on that equipment that will be 50% produced in Croatia. And who among these world operators wants Croatia to use this type of software or this type of software or hardware in all segments of the public administration must come to Croatia and produce 50% of the total product in Croatia. That way we could solve two things. We'd have a lot of public support, and we'd have that understanding of what's said. It is said in matters governed by this Law that we create the trust of the highest public. Of course, it needs to be created to make the public believe, and this is one of the models above all that we have a unique system that we can understand and monitor, that we have benefits from that system. To hire people in Croatia because our people know how to do any job and that job. Therefore, we can help in this way that these tools are not only bought tools that we will buy from abroad, bring to Croatia, and I will not use anyone but they must be real tools with which our children will come out of basic education but have all the elements far greater than we have here today which we are having and who will actively use these tools through knowledge. Therefore, the debate on this subject is far wider. I personally fully support it as well as the proposal of this Law because I was discussing the first reading of a particular one, of course I am not in possession of such knowledge that I can suggest certain items of this bill. I've spoken more in general and in principle, but I can see that at the second reading, the motionary has respected a lot of the debates that were and that is absolutely on the trail of what I'm saying is that we simply have to make these tools available to all those who can be used. At the same time, the system of support through education, through the development of knowledge and through the public word must be the one that will give full justification for the adoption of this bill over a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51973	Thank you. The final review of the state, and I apologize, the replicated representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51974	Your Honor, Mr. President, I think Mr. Markov has well-informed this problem of information equipment that is in public authorities means it's the state administration and public administration and public enterprises, all that falls under it, it's a broad term. He's got that very good problem. In Croatia, we must go after the fact that, above all, we ourselves, the state administration, public services, are buying domestic equipment. So let's buy Croatian. We have developed companies like Končar, Končar has done huge things in the work of making and producing information equipment and we as a state, so as the bodies of the state government we should just go to such systems to promote our ideas and that we have a system that will be compatible, not incompatible as we have it now and then we should go, help domestic producers. Let's do a job and hire new people, not import from the outside, and then you don't know what's being imported. Because apparently many only care about commissions in various purchases, not what needs to be had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51975	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51976	Thank you very much. So I agree with Pera what he was talking about and maybe the slogan instead of buying Croatian, we produce Croatian. We've always talked in recent years. Let's shop. Let's buy. There's nothing to buy if we don't produce. Let us first produce Croatian and think Croatian in terms of knowledge. We have the opportunity to compete with our knowledge with anyone, and if we also create a clear vision and desire to produce Croatian, then of course we will also buy it because it will be entrenched and knowledge and our work. I think that this country has knowledge and skills and will and that a good climate is created in which it must and should be realized. In that sense, my replica is, of course, not referred to Perry, but more than one comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51977	Second replica, the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51978	Well, I'd like to replicate to Mr. Markov in that part of his debate, which refers to the objectives, expectations of this law, tools and the like. It is my opinion that this regulation should firstly be regarded as a basic prerequisite, as something that regulates certain things in a way that you could have talked about in such a way, so in such an affirmative way as to actually realize in our society no matter what segment of our society in this sense analyzed, whether it is a system of state administration, whether it is a system of education or whatever segment of social activities we are talking about, it is certainly that, in the future, we are going to communicate electronically. But in order to be able to communicate electronically in the right way, so in order to be able to protect ourselves from the abuse of such communication, I think that, in that sense, this law that we have in front of us is necessary and I am unusually pleased that we will all, and that we have had the opportunity to see it from the representatives of clubs in that sense and to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51979	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51980	Thank you very much. Of course, there's no need for any controversy, but I'd say that the procedure I was talking about absolutely does not deny the importance of this law. I was just saying that we simply have to create conditions at all levels for citizens and for public authorities, but also for an organisational system that should be simple, understandable and readable for all. He must not be complicated, that simply a complicated truth eats the truth itself. We have to create something that's simple. Today's the American entire system you know how software is made, no. So he has the simplest form of communication with users. Our system anywhere in Croatia is so complicated that we simply don't understand ourselves anymore. When you ask whether or not you are not getting an answer that you are wrong or something is wrong, you are getting an answer that you need to implement so that some language combinations can come to conclusions that may not be correct. Therefore, the problem is, we need to simplify things in Croatia. Things are simple. If you're asking if you can get a building permit the answer is yes or the answer is no, and there can be no answer if that, or, perhaps, tomorrow etc. It's our problem, and it chokes both the economy and people, and it makes an ugly habit of asking what's normal and giving you the answer that, to beg someone to tell you. And that's what burdens our system and what we need to get out of. I believe this bill will also help in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51981	Thank you. And final review by State Secretary of the Central State Office for E-Croatia Miroslav Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51982	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I certainly want to thank you first for this very quality debate which has raised many questions and I dare say that you have actually covered everything that is crucial and what is the problem today but let's say this is a challenge in developing an information society in Croatia. I think some of your questions certainly deserve and more exhaustive answers. I'll try, given that time is limited to focusing on what's most important. Perhaps we should start at the end of this debate on how to encourage a Croatian product to so say related to information communication technology. My personal opinion was somewhat said already and now that it needs to focus on those products where first of all knowledge is what gives extra value. So software solutions, solutions that go towards implementation of large systems. Perhaps less on hardware because of a competitive situation as it is already on the global market, although it certainly does not need to be given up. I hope and believe that, in cooperation with the IST Association of Croatian Employers, after we get the results of the study that is just being prepared. So, studies by the Croatian IST sector. To see what these roads are, what should be done specifically by the Government, what the sector itself should do to encourage the industry in the right way in Croatia. There have been proposals to develop a comprehensive strategy of information education or, or descriptiveness. I must say that the government adopted a plan to develop a system of education and education in 2005 to 2010 which has one strong emphasis on the use of information communication technology. It's not the only framework document we have, but we're not just staying on the papers. We, for example, put the ECDL, the so-called European computer driver's license as a generally accepted programme in Europe and placed it in the world as an obligation to train civil servants, the Ministry of Science, education and sports. He started a teacher's education program. Five hundred teachers should be through that program by the end of this year. After that, they will train their colleagues, and of course systematically, they will train their students. The idea is that schools as such become local centres where other users will be able to train through the ECDL programme, through a framework that allows anyone to pass through the program to become informational writing. I'm not going to say here that, I'm not going to say something that might sound too optimistic, but the fact is, there's a reason for faith that we're not so informationally illiterate. If the number of Internet users is about 31% in Croatia. If the European average is about 40 people who actively use the Internet, there is no way to say that they are informationally illiterate. Of course, it is about how well they can use the potential of information communication technology. But it's also a challenge in Europe and in the world that so-called override of the digital gap. The challenge will certainly be to us. So I think that through the existing system we have enough implementing documents for information and descriptor and continuous education. But of course we will have to find ever more effective ways to implement them. I should also refer briefly to the verification of the authenticity of the electronic document since it is also directly related to this law. I think we can have absolute confidence in what FINA is doing in that segment. She respects all international standards. She got that certificate based on it. She's using the most advanced technology in that sense, and not only is there no need, but I think it would be completely wrong for us to look for foreign certificates for something like that. It's something strategic, it's something that's as important as own money or another key system. So full trust in FINA. It's extremely simple to vent the credibility of this signature, it lasts for a few seconds and it's done automatically on the Internet. So there is no doubt that the adoption of this law and the proper application of technology will make it important to make it easier to use electronic documents. Also, as regards grantovnica as such, it can become part of the law, where it is in harmony with the real situation and it will be verified by the Ministry of Justice, electronically signed, there is a legally valid document. Why is a garter in a case like this in this state on the Internet? It is precisely to encourage those who have not done neither digitization nor levelling to do so as quickly as possible to cause some kind of public pressure to speed up the process. Also, what I want to point out. It has been said that information security is extremely important in all of this, and I cannot stress enough how important it is. You are absolutely right, the Central State Office has, in cooperation with other public administration services, made one programme of national information security for which we have received all the compliments of the professional public. We think it's an extremely high-quality document, precisely because it was attended by everyone in the area who has to say and is now in the stage of implementation. I expect that the following laws that will appear before you will not only be expected but I know that their proposals have all these provisions in place, which will certainly raise the level of information security. In conclusion, I'd just say yes, yes. ... So, thank you, Mr. President, I'm sort of feeling that what I've been talking about system-based education about ICTU has been covered by Mr. Piplovic's proposal, but I'm staying on it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think we have enough strategic documents, that we need to do more work on their implementation. I agree absolutely with the need for information descripting and systematic education. I think in this explanation, I explained the government's position on this matter. I thank you, of course, for that proposal. And in conclusion, I would like to thank, by all agents, everyone who participated in the adoption of this law and especially for the support that you have shown not only to the law, but also to the work of the Central State Office for e-Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51983	Thank you very much. Given that, the secretary of state was manifested, he expressed his opinion in the light of the proposal for the conclusions of the respected representative Frana Piplovic, I would ask MP Piplovic to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51984	That I would withdraw my proposal to the conclusion. But in any case, all of this that the secretary of state here has made it more visible, that in some way draws closer to people and this strategy that exists is at least to divide in some way into some programs and that, that one education on the ground on our way to the European Union with illiterate people in information will be far, far more difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51985	Thank you. So we find that the proposal for a conclusion has been withdrawn. Final proposal for an electronic correction law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 95 votes for and 2 abstentions. ... adopted the Law on the Electronic Correction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51988	Thank you, Mr. President. The law on ownership and other real rights entered into force on 1 January 1997. If you allow me to believe that I will not exaggerate when I say that yielding, the adoption of this law is among those laws that have really been significantly changed by the Croatian legislative and even state structure in accordance with organised democratic civil states. Why? Because this law, according to its content, was supposed to and did have a final end to what Croatia had before, or before the disunity while we were in socialism, which is a system of social ownership. One particular feature that other countries, civil states do not have, where the principle of ownership rights is one of the fundamental constitutional principles of such states. Therefore, I feel that this law on its adoption falls within the important dates in our system. But the change in one system, especially when it comes to property relations, ownership relationships are not easy or simple. And that's what this law is about. This law is important to me. It has about 400 articles and contains these basic institutions of ownership, possession, service, mortgages, etc. But he also has something that is extremely important and that seems to me to have prevailed in the present application, its application, which is transitional and final provisions. Why? Because it was precisely these transitional and final provisions that needed to create mechanisms for turning what is socially owned into property rights, of course with as little difficulty and problems as possible. So this law also had a special head relating to the conversion of the right of availability and use, determining who became the owner of the property on which someone had the right to use, depending on what type of property they were and who they were subjects of that right. This law also had one particular feature, i.e. a provision which excluded the application of these provisions, general provisions such as in the transitional part of the Law on Property and other real rights relating to the conversion of the right of legal application, which was the provision of Article 390 which prescribed that the provisions of this Law on Conversion, legal availability and use do not apply to matters, i.e. those assets on which the right to management, use and availability had a former social, political organisation society, as well as things which were introduced into social capital of social enterprises during their conversion. Nor will property located in the temporarily occupied, later-free areas, and that the conversion of that property will be governed by special laws. And it is indeed done, i.e. These specific laws have been passed with more or less success. When we talk about this sometimes, I just have to point out that the conversion of the right to manage the social resources of former socio-political organisations is regulated and implemented under the Law on the Conversion of the right to the social resources of former socio-political organisations. It seems to me that the application of this law and the conversion of the rights of these organisations has caused less difficulty than the conversion of the management rights of former social enterprises and which also took place under special laws, under the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises and the Law on Privatisation. You are witnessing this, there is no particular saying that every few questions are asked and doubts as to whether the conversion of a particular legal person has been correctly implemented, including whether or not all the assets that were to be entered into that conversion were entered into that legal person and whether or not it was entered into, or whether what was indeed and could not have been introduced. This can even be understood given the complexity of these relationships and, of course, the specific system and the discrepancies of any records in the social ownership system. On the basis of such a starting position, it is really not easy to convert. It was not in practice or easy to do, given that, in my assessment, if I may say so, certain provisions of the law were also unarranged. According to the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises, it was said that the conversion was carried out and determined by the holder of the right of ownership in those legal entities, that this legal person became the owner, but that the conversion of ownership rights was done on the principle of legal succession, but not in a really legal sense, as it is often stressed in legal theory. You know that the company submitted a request for the conversion to the Croatian Privatisation Fund with those big labs. The fact is, however, that the solution of the Croatian Privatisation Fund if you saw it, I suppose you all had a chance to see it, was very short and contained only the total amount of value and the legal person who was given consent to the conversion and the number of shares, sticking to some cases and booking of shares for former owners for future application of the Compensation Act. So what was and that fact was in a certain sense continued through a law that followed through the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises, it was the Law on Privatisation. Both of these laws, which have defined to a certain extent those ownership, i.e. the conversion with the right to use, did not, unfortunately, contain a definition of what a legal person, a social enterprise, when transformed into a commercial company, acquires as its property in the conversion process. In such a legal situation and practice, it was not possible to provide a single answer and in practice these provisions were applied differently. Of course it also caused a series of disputes before the competent courts. Practice... in a way that everything that was written in the land books as... [[You don't understand.]] the use of this legal person in principle... [[You don't understand.]] the book, that the situation was that the land, for example, was recorded, although it was not evaluated in the conversion but only the building on that land. [[You don't understand.]] There are situations that have been recorded and what cannot be legally recorded. You know that under the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on Forests and Forest Land, all the forests, or agricultural land that was in social property, became the property of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, even what is a maritime good or a special kind of thing like ponds can't be acquired by plantation. This particular property built on it could prove to be a value in the assessment of conversion, but the real estate itself could not have been entered into conversion. This kind of legal void and this kind of... The legislator’s practice has tried to remove on several occasions so that in 96, additions to the Privatisation Act have been adopted when it was requested that a legal person should, if necessary, be required to register its ownership on a specific property in the land books to request from the Croatian Privatisation Fund a certificate, a statement, a solution to that body of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which all property has been entered into in conversion when giving consent to conversion. [[You don't understand.]] And that question, and such a legal solution has been caused by difficulties because this solution of the fund in its meaning does not mean... I.D.s, therefore, which in itself is already enough to enroll in land books. [[You don't understand.]] So obviously, we all know this well from the discussions that have been conducted in the transformation in various ways, that the lack, or absence of a legal norm, which would clearly demonstrate to the legal person, the social enterprise when it was converted into social capital, has caused a lot of difficulties in practice. Now it's time to evaluate that definitely and that story finally ends, wraps up, that it definitely seems to me that the final order of what legal persons have acquired during their conversion is in place. In part, the focus, i.e. just let it be reminded, is now done in the area of a specific type of building land, tourist land in the Proposal for a Law on Tourist Land which passed the first debate in front of this House and which received support in the first reading. What is now prescribed and clearly defined in these transitional and final provisions is, therefore, the definition of those things, those assets that have been entered into the capital, in its capital at the time of conversion in such a way that a new Article 390a is added beyond Article 390a. which explicitly prescribes that a company as a legal successor of a social enterprise is considered to be the owner of real estate which, on the date of the assessment of the value of the underlying capital in the process of conversion and privatisation, was also required to be cumulatively met, social property... the use and availability of social enterprises which could be subject to the acquisition of ownership rights, so this cannot be agricultural land, forest land whose value is the estimated capital of the company and which, according to the competent authority, are the Croatian Privatisation Fund of the shown capital of the company. [[You don't understand.]] It seems to me the most important thing to say about these amendments and the additions to the law. However, allow me to mention one more amendment and addition that is proposed, and it refers to the availability of properties owned by local administration and self-government units. According to this law, units of local administration and self-government can dispose of real estate only on the basis of a public tender and that is the rule that we believe... transparency, transparency in market access when units of local administrations and self-government have their own properties, preventing or doubting that it is appropriate for certain entities. [[You don't understand.]] But that rule, however well imagined, has proved to have certain exceptions. The legislator who has already done so for the first time when he has determined that this does not apply to cases where the land is available for the purpose of building houses in areas of special state care for the accommodation of persons who exercise the right to refurbishment, i.e. housing under the Rehabilitation Act. It is now proposed to further actually depart from this, in those situations where legal traffic takes place between the units of local administration and self-government directly, of course both the Republic of Croatia and legal persons owned or mostly owned by them, and it is proposed to do so in a situation that is in fact life, where there is simply no logic or possibility of making a different decision, which is when actually in the application of spatial plans a building particle is formed and when a certain person who built the house or has a general particle needs to form a building particle to get a part of the plot that is owned by the unit of local administration and self-government. The law proposes that it be up to 20% of the size of the building particle, building plots when it is possible not to go to a public tender because in such a situation no one else can appear objectively because it is the person who owns that particle that has to comply with the spatial plan to come, i.e. to buy from the unit of local administration and self-government that additional part up to 20%. It is therefore proposed not to seek or insist on a public competition in this situation. Dear ladies and gentlemen, that's what I think we should emphasize on this bill, in his first reading. Of course, as a proponent of this law, the government will try to put in place all those remarks and proposals between the two readings to further improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51989	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51990	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of the secretary of state who said that there was no problem in making everything that was so-called under the Forest Act. social property, which means forests and forest land that it became state property. That's not true. We have examples in the area of Istria where municipalities and cities are registered to the so-called so-called "Istria". The forest land along the coastal area was sold to its like. Afterwards, they made it possible to urbanize all of this, and this Law does not speak about it at all, and this is a huge problem and huge damage has been done to state property. Disputes are not conducted, the State Inspectorate has determined everything, and to this day it's a dead letter on paper. We're asking him to finally get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51991	Thank you very much. Are the committees? Here you go. The Legislative Committee, Mr Emil Tomljanović. No, for the judiciary, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51992	Thank you very much. Are the committees? Here you go. The Legislative Committee, Mr Emil Tomljanović. No, for the judiciary, I'm sorry. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government. At the 35th session held on 6 December 2005, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and other real rights submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 17 November 2005. The Committee discussed the Law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Furthermore, the applicant pointed out that the existing Law on Property and other real rights stipulates that the general provisions of this Act on the conversion of management rights, use and availability to property rights did not refer to matters where the right to governance, use and availability had former social and socio-political organisations. These are things that have not been entered into the social capital of legal persons in the process of transforming social enterprises. The proposal cumulatively prescribes assumptions under which companies as legal followers of former social enterprises become property owners after the completion of the social property conversion. There is also compliance with the Construction Act and the State Administration System Act. In the debate on the text of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law, the Committee members delivered the following opinions, proposals and comments. Article 4 The proposal for a law is added to Article 390a, which cumulatively prescribes assumptions under which companies as legal followers of earlier social enterprises become property owners after having completed the conversion of social property. In point 3 of Article 390a, which reads as follows: "the value of which has been assessed in the capital of the company and which is shown in the capital of the company by the competent authority" the word "was" should be deleted to allow the proposed norm to be applied to all future cases. The opinion is to be made by the provision of Article 5. The proposal for a law amending paragraph 2 of Article 391 should be amended in such a way that the exemption from the provision of paragraph 1 applies to legal persons owned or owned by units of local administration and self-government, as it is also of public interest in this case. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The members of the Committee shall be unanimous in the assessment that such a standard facilitates the availability of property owned by units of local self-government and units of regional self-government. However, the proposed norm is unspecified in the part of the determination, and I quote: "the established market price". They therefore propose to prescribe price elements which may be priced based on authorised skill or price according to the relevant data of the tax administration. It is also indicated, although not the matter of this Law, that the sale of apartments in which the rental of an apartment was established should be resolved without the conduct of a public tender. In accordance with Article 391, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: In view of the fact that some companies have registered to property owners without similar property acquisition documents as legal followers of a social company, it is also indicated that there is a need to clarify the possible ways of dissuasing the validity of such registrations. After the discussion, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and Other Real Rights is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be submitted in the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights will be directed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take them into consideration when drawing up the final proposal of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51993	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, Mr. Representative and President of the Committee, Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51994	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 57th session held on 30 November 2005, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on ownership and other real rights, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 17 November 2005. At the same time, the Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this Act and proposes that Articles 1 and 6 should be amended nomotechnically. At the same time, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion, that the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights be held at the same time as the Final Proposal for the Law on Tourist Land. And this is all, as explained, given the link between the content of the legal institutes and their solutions, proposed, as I said at the same session of the Croatian Parliament, to conduct the debate on this proposal as well as on the final proposal for those laws, therefore, the Law on Tourism Land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51995	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51996	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 44th session held on 1 December 2005 the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 17 November 2005. The Committee discussed the Law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the Proposal for this Law. After the debate, the Committee unanimously, 7 votes in favour, proposed to the Croatian Parliament to reach the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Property and other real rights is adopted. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate on the Proposal for a Law at a session of the Assembly and its working bodies will be addressed to the Proposer in order to draw up a final proposal of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51997	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51998	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights, with the assessment that its adoption is not only justified but necessarily related to the problem of applying certain provisions of the existing Law, which, these proposed amendments themselves, concern essentially 3 different legal issues which would or which are proposed to be dealt with in a more precise manner. It is, firstly, a matter of how to distribute property owned by units of local self-government as provided for in Article 391(1). Laws of ownership and other real rights. The second or second part of the question concerns or is related to the acquisition of the right to ownership of companies as legal followers of social enterprises, and after the completion of the transformation of social social property, it is therefore property property in this regard. And the third round of questions related to the registration of ownership rights and its acquisition when it comes to building rights holders, i.e. the owner of a building on a land not owned. So we have three separate units that are regulated by this Law, and firstly, we need to emphasize the following. The current legal provisions did not allow the units of local self-government, or their heads of state, to communicate with their real estate without public tendering and in any situation. The fact that this provision was in practice, in terms of its application, not only of practical difficulties but also of the actual application of this article, also caused different legal interpretations and legal doubts. In order to support the legal solution that the provision of Article 391 does not apply to cases where the right of ownership of real estate is acquired by the Republic of Croatia in a given sense, the units of local and regional self-government and the legal person owned or weighted by the Republic of Croatia. Also, according to the proposed legal decisions, there is no obligation to call a public tender now when the disposing of ownership goes to the person who needs some of that land to form a building particle. This, of course, is two conditions. The first that the formation of a building particle must be in line with the location permit or detailed planning and secondly, that part must not exceed 20% of the surface area of the planned building particle. The exception to the above-mentioned public tender obligation also applies to a person who, on land owned without a building permit and another relevant act by the competent authority of the state administration, has built a building in accordance with a detailed planning plan or a local permit and is missing up to 20% of the building particle surface. However, it should be noted here, in fact, that person must undertake to submit a request to the competent authority of the national authority for the construction permit within 6 months of the date of conclusion of the contract. As regards the second round of issues, it should be pointed out first of all that the applicant's intensity is to remove the legal void that appears in practice and has appeared in practice, and all in the light of the answer to the question on which the former companies as legal followers of former social enterprises acquire the right of ownership, i.e. they can acquire the right to ownership and registration of that right in land books. These issues have not been resolved precisely either by the Law on the Conversion of a social enterprise or by the Law on Privatisation. In practice, there are additional difficulties, and in the absence of a specific list of properties whose value has been entered into social capital, the solutions on the conversion of a legal person are generally not specific. Such solutions were therefore a lack of tabular documents, and all in the sense of the inability to carry out an appropriate land-booking process, i.e. the registration of ownership rights on such property. This is precisely the sequence of facts and negative manipulations of the current Article 390. The Law on ownership and other real rights relating to exemptions from the conversion of management, use and availability, the Proposer proposes a clear solution, i.e. it prescribes cumulative conditions to be met in order to carry out in land books the process of recording the right of ownership of the property in question. As regards the amended Article 368(3), therefore, of this third round of legal matters, it is amended in a way that the possibility of entering the right of ownership on land in social property, which was built on which a building which is under (a) or owned at the time of entry into force, is built, but the right of use of building land in social property, i.e. the primary right of use of building land in social property for the benefit of the owner and of the building where the competent court, at the request of the owner of the building, determines or enters the right of ownership on the basis of the executive decision of the authority which has been granted the right of the building... the holder, but therefore the decision to remove the building land from the property of the former owner or the user, then the contract of mutual rights and obligations concluded in accordance with the conditions laid down in that decision and the notice of the competent cadastrian body that a building building was built on a particular building particle within the meaning of these conditions, i.e. point 4, shall apply to the amendment, and it shall apply to the delivery of the building permit itself as a document to be attached and with this documentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this Proposal for a Law in the light of the procedure itself and that it is a first reading, of course certain observations which were either observations, as well as debates on the parent committees, we are of the opinion that the Proposer will consider them as such and, in that sense, even if this proposal for a law is of great quality until then the second reading or final variant of the proposal of this Law, we will have even more complete and more precise and even more high quality legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u51999	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52000	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Ownership which, if both the case law and the administration were literally to comply with the provisions of this Act, would simplify the entries that have complicated the matter so far, for citizens, but also the same complicated procedure sometimes incomplete, and in the very situation of competition between the judicial authorities, so the judiciary itself and the administrative authorities themselves created difficulties so that the whole series of pending cases was because the simple solutions were almost sometimes not. That is exactly the kind of solution to these problems we see in Article 3(3) of the amendment to the existing Article 368(3). Laws of ownership and other real rights. In addition, as regards the provision of Article 1, we believe that not only will in some way simplify registrations of label property, but also prevent manipulations of construction in the residential building, and such situations have often been especially in the 1990s, so also without those necessary substrates, i.e. more concrete confirmations not only of the other tenants but also of the public authorities. So in this way, I think it's simpler to regulate the whole situation so that for those who enforce the law on their own for the judiciary there won't be any further dilemmas or doubt. However, what Ms. State Secretary said not only did this Law not only solve it but it was not a possible situation in either our existing legal system or under the existing Law on Property and Other Real Rights or the existing Law on Compensation for Disposal of Assets during the Yugoslav Communist Government, and this is an indisputable fact which aroused our citizens that it was just the owners, most often it was the hotel, who held a whole number of years of very valuable land without any compensation and, unfortunately, it was unlawfully registered. They've been credited with abuses, not because it's made possible by a special law. The resistance of citizens, their protests, and the units of local self-government that were there were quite up-to-date managed to record such lawless and without any legal basis or false documents in the book. However, what concerns is that none of such persons have been punished, either for compensation of damages, or for the application of the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Legal Persons. It is therefore something that this law does not resolve, perhaps giving a clearer message to both public authorities and the judiciary itself. But what I'm saying so far, I repeat, in this sense something inadmissible that was going on should also be sanctioned under our existing legislation. As regards the provisions of Article 2, in any case, the existing norms shall be more clearly defined and simplified. This is particularly important to emphasise, however, perhaps the proponent, is certain that there is time for a final proposal that this possibility of re-innovating the courts is being cast out here. We see from the current article 74 that this particular case is decided outside, determines the court in a non-party procedure. However, that this extraparate procedure is not necessary here and that, following this supplement or amendment where the main project which is part of the building permit is confirmed by the competent authority of the state administration, there is therefore no need here to double both administrative and judicial authority and thus contribute to reform, the progress of reforming the judicial system that the familiar instructions of the Council of Europe Directive allow countries in transition to improve their justice system so-called "the justice system". "non-judge case" or cases in which no trial is required. So, no matter what these procedures are, they will all agree very simple, and even relatively fast, but why not hire judges in that part to solve both the lagging objects and the current inflow rather than to spend their yet precious time. After all, court proceedings are always expensive for the state and not just for the citizens. So, in this sense, to consider completely withdrawing the extraparnite court from this procedure because it is not necessary at all in addition to the activity of the body of the state administration, which is provided here by the main project which is an integral part of the building permit. In this case, he would not have been able to provide that all the assumptions on which he would finally re-solve the outsider court in an out-of-party procedure are not met, or determine which is a useful area. What I consider to be particular to point out on behalf of the SDP Club that the provision of Article 5 is also linked to the Law on Courts or the Law on the Areas of Courts where units of local self-government are not only authorised but also obliged to give if their capacity for the building exists, their premises precisely for the needs of the judiciary. Unfortunately, this authority and often the duty of the unit of local self-government have been particularly deafened lately, and this is not good because the efficiency of a unit of local self-government is measured by how effective the government is in this area. Some have done so, so they have set aside their space for these needs and in these environments precisely because they are fully satisfied with this spatial component and work well. Often, such a situation prevents courts from being more efficient, although problems are of course a much deeper nature. Therefore, here is to avoid the restriction of the unit of local self-government although it is a "lex specialis" but may be specifically mentioned here in the provision of Article 5, so that there is no way that units of local self-government would be prevented and, when they have a good intention, the legislator should encourage them to implement and implement those provisions which have already been settled in the Law on Court Areas. So, if there is no such restriction and there is no such thing, such a property is not obliged to offer any public tender but to offer it for free or give to use the state for these needs, as I say, the law also predicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52001	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52002	Your Honor, Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who said that all questionable or illegal books have managed to be registered in an appropriate procedure. I'm taking it out, I'm saying again, the case. It's most of it, but I'm saying it's a smaller part. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A very small part has succeeded. The most escalating example is the case of illegal recording over forest land in the Istria area, so by the sea where it went so far as to have cottages there by now. It's an eclectic example. And the former government knew about it because the State Inspectorate determined it in 2001. No one's done anything, no state's attorney's office, no Justice Department, and no county alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52003	We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52004	Well, my colleague violated the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 because he imputed me to say something I didn't say, although I completely agree with what my colleague Kovacevic said. I just said that some have succeeded, and this has been a great initiative by some units of local self-government and citizens who are just expecting a return and have not been able to make a return because these very hotel houses, businesses kept it in their possession and then signed up later on and treated it as property.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52005	Thank you very much. It's a question of grading claims. Mr. Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52006	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! Well, you see, I primarily observe this law in the context of this Law on Tourist Land, which was first read in front of, say, ten days in front of parliamentary representatives. And you all know that privatized tourist houses have tried to enroll in hundreds of acres of so-called. tourism land that has not entered their core capital. And I ask the legislator not to make a mistake and to defend something now on the one hand by the Law on Tourism Land and, secondly, to the Law on Ownership and Legal Relations, or the Law on Property and other real rights. He would even dare say that this law of the state shows his intention to care for tycoons rather than vice versa, instead of taking care of the workers clearly and the state. That the tycoon, as Mrs. Marinovic said, was asked to submit evidence based on which they acquired the most valuable Croatian economic units. I claim, the conversion of Croatia was a big deception, someone would say and a robbery, and I'm afraid by this law, we're going to meet in some way, to round up the so-called. Technological units that will especially hit the edges by the sea. The last time we spoke here in the Law of... I told the land that IDS was able to prevent a book or local self-government over 1,000 acres [1,000 ha] so-called. tourist land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The booklet TDR was challenged at 200 hectares in Rovinj, at 200 hectares in Rovinj, at 200 hectares in Vrsar. Zagreb Bank at 200 hectares in Umag, Mr. Luksic at 200 hectares in Poreč,... At 200 acres in Poreč, you later had a chance to follow up on the Liburnia case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Agrolagunine 500 hectares in Poreč, etc. What am I saying? For 10 years we have been dealing with the most powerful Croatian capital that has one complete dare to say both political and media transport. And why are we fighting for this tourist land because we are doing it because we are convinced that it would be extremely incorrect for these companies, their owners who have a name and a last name, who became owners there in 91 or 92, and until then the vast majority of us were also having trouble buying tires for their car, so they acquired something they didn't pay, which didn't enter the capital of those companies and which, by some of God's laws, shouldn't belong to them. I only know that because of that and personally, but the party also has some issues. Why? It's banks, there's companies that control the media, so I'll say in some way life in Istria, Croatia, so don't expect it now, for example. Croatian radio television something ugly, for example to tell about the Zagreb Bank, which, through the form of sponsorship alone, makes 5 or 10 million kunas annually or in the Privredna banka, TDR and what I know to whom not everything is. A TDR that now fires 100 workers in Vrsar and Rovinj without unions or anyone talking about it. Why doesn't anyone raise their voice? Because everyone's afraid they're going to stay, I don't know, without advertising fees, cigarettes and so forth, which then says that power isn't in this House, but that power is in the capital, or in the media. And that's the point. We, and how the public treats us in the right sense, have become the last hole in the play, at the moment that we have disproved ourselves. Every director of a state-owned company has twice as much pay as the president of the state or parliament, which is a shame, and we are silent. Every columnist in the leading Croatian media has a higher salary than the President of the Parliament, no matter what, but we don't even need to talk about it, we can talk about something else. 200 people on HRT have a higher salary than the minister, or income. And we keep our mouths shut again. And these laws to the team that hold the economic life of Croatia, which have acquired this by converting it by privatizing it, means by the basis of which it is not, political agreement or something like that, we will allow all the issues in question to be legalised in some way. Here is Article 5(2), the person who needs some of that land to form an undeveloped building particle clearly not to be affected when it comes to small ordinary people, but when it comes to these large systems in accordance with the location permit or detailed planning if that part does not exceed 20% of the surface area of the planned building particle, it is clear that they will be given these properties. The person who, on land owned without a building permit or other relevant act, has built a building in accordance with a detailed plan of arrangement or a location permit and is missing up to 20% of the surface of the planned building particle, provided that it is clearly binding that within 6 months of the date of conclusion of the contract of sale, he will submit a request for the entry of the building permit. I said, no problem when the poor are on Wednesday, the problem is those who simply hold that, I will say political and media, etc., life in the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The argument, which Article 4 of page 8 literally states, further companies formed by the conversion of book value were universal sequences, all assets, rights and obligations converted into social enterprises until the end of the privatisation process carried out on the basis of the estimated value of the core capital of the company and which are determined as a difference of estimated values, assets and liabilities on the day 31. 12 years in order to maintain ownership only on the estimated assets after the privatisation process is completed. As from the day of conversion until the privatisation date, as a rule, several years have passed, companies said during this period as followers of transformed social capital, i.e. companies were businessed and forced to sell part of the particle. The devil was coerced, who coerced them?- I'm sorry. The assets achieved by the sale resulted in an increase in the various items, assets, i.e. the reduction in the items of liabilities but the real estate sold did not... as part of the company's assets were subject to an assessment and not to quote anything further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What IDS wants us to be unequivocally told that so-called. Called tourist land under no circumstances will become this property of these hotel houses or agricultural agricultural enterprises. And it's possible that in this case, it's almost done without the quotes and it needs to be avoided for sure. The last time we talked about this tourist land, I was saying in front of the club that it was certainly a good law, a useful law, that the proposaler's intention was fair, and clearly it was 10 or 12 years late, it's a different thing now, probably not by accident, but let's just sort out as much as possible before that matter that of these hotelers or agricultural systems we start collecting the rent already for the next 2006. As for another detail Mrs Bagic mentioned, this is how she said she was quoting the conversion of social political organisations, no less than she used that term of conversion, it was the same absolutely unfairly implemented, favouring one political option at the expense of all other political entities. So some days all the assets of social political organisations, and others, I think we voted it in 96 and clearly I was against it, and the other political groups were given nothing. She still said no one was complaining about it. People are rebelling, but it's just no use to the same probably at that time of political agreement between the two strongest parties. That's actually the point. And as for these forests, barbariga dragoners, those properties were before I knew how much property the units of local self-government were. How the state acquired this agricultural land, or forest land, under the law if I'm not mistaken from 93 or 94. It was simply a paper "encouragement" under quotes that disbursed the local self-government unit in that part of the unit. As far as that barbariga dragoneer is concerned, I'm thinking by 10. 12. ... enters the area where an investment worth 250m to 300m euros will be realised in two or three years, of which only 50m euros of VAT will be made in the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for Istria, which it constantly calls out, I don't know why Kovacevic, it can certainly be an example for all of Istria and for tolerance, unemployment or some economic moments but probably also for real estate. Yes, it is true, the municipality of Vodnjan sold these 100 hectares in that barbariga dragooner did not need, but eventually this investment may become the largest reference if this complex of Kempinski attracts relevant capital and the highest quality to the space of the entire Republic of Croatia. If Kempinski comes, that's how it's gonna be. Vodnjan, Fažana, who lost every tourist valorisation because of Brion, could in some way change in tourist terms. In one word we will vote for this Law, but we really ask the promoters not to happen, there is an attempt to re-urp this tourist or agricultural land anyway which is certainly one of the most valuable resources that the Republic of Croatia has at this time. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52007	Thank you. We have three corrections. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52008	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so here are a number of exact allegations mainly compared to the salaries of certain social entities, the members of the groups in our country were also a series of incorrect allegations but as counterpart Cain spoke of a whole bunch of laws on this occasion. That was hard to track. I will only limit myself to this law, and it is incorrect for his claim that amendments, amendments and additions to the Property Act would please tycoons. This is absolutely incorrect because this law will make it clear to those who have acquired and entered illegally through the conversion and privatisation, this provision of Law 390.a) clearly specify the conditions under which the former social enterprise can be registered and now transformed, the transformed company and will no longer be a misunderstanding in legal practice because both the views of individuals and the professional public have spoken differently, and this law clearly and loudly prevents illegal books and obtaining what is not paid to the State.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52009	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52010	... And he also put an emphasis on correcting this allegation incorrectly that this actually suits the tycoons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know a fellow Caine obviously then you've got some other bill of law, and we're all other MPs again some other bill of law. Nowhere so there's no room for such a single conclusion on this... The solutions that are offered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the contrary, this Law also opens up the possibility of correcting some of the injustices that have been done but also prevents the making of new injustices on this basis. I actually see in this law the possibility first of all to help small people who today cannot round up their property and so on. They have a series of problems with local powers. So let's not exactly ask in this law what is not in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52011	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52012	Here I refer to Article 209, paragraph 2, where Mr Piploić and my colleague are correcting my exact allegations. This Law will enable those who have acquired something illegal to legalize everything in the end. That's exactly what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52013	A claim on the claim. Let's move on. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52014	So I'd just like to correct Mr. Vice President Kajin's colleague that it's true that people are interested in what's happened to tourist land in Istria, but even more people in Istria are interested in what's happened to private owners of the entire coast of Istria who have signed up in very strange circumstances over the past 10 years as owners of the best land and are said to be in cahoots with local self-government units where IDS is in power. So I'd like to hear this colleague of mine say is that so or isn't he? [[/Intruder: It's not like that. They're all yours. Your parents did it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52015	You can't ask a question like that though in, since you're neighbors and Istrana you'll clear it up between yourselves. Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the DC Club, on behalf of the DC Club of HSLS, Mr. Representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52016	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Assistant Minister. So the DC club HSLS and LS supports this bill. We don't actually have any big remarks. We can only conclude one sad fact that we haven't had a solution like this before because then we'll all be sorry because there would be far less injustice, there would be far more quality solutions, there would be more employees in many companies, many ownership would remain property for the benefit of our people. It would be far more order. However, it is good to have such a solution that they also come now, as I said earlier, simply prevent themselves from creating new injustices and that the void that existed was that it was no longer a void. Yes, we have simple opportunities to give people, above all, to these and with these legal solutions, the satisfaction that something is still moving and we believe that these solutions are in this bill that this is also a further addition of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The same would particularly apostrophe these actually look small, small changes, however, which will mean a lot to small people, especially those who have problems with the formation of civil parcels where they are bad neighbourly relations, and space has to be rounded up in a way that can be bought from local administrations and self-government, that they don't have to go to a competition so these are extra costs and always be somehow to a small man sitting in trouble so his troubles get much bigger. So we hold that this is a shift and a great help to the citizens, and what has just been said about those who have caused great trouble to our citizens, I think it will be a bit of a legal framework where these problems will be far more difficult to do than they have ever been before. So our club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52017	Thank you very much. On behalf of the PGS Club of SBHS, Mr. Representative Nikola Ivanis. He's gone. The club's losing rights. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52018	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Sir, the minister, colleagues and colleagues will be assisted. This law has three aspects, three things it says, but before I go to content, I'd like to talk about numbers. This Law is actually difficult when all of this is summed up by about 600 million German marks. So you have to multiply that by 4 to get the actual number. So much, so much property has been converted at the moment when social enterprises have turned into stock companies, into companies. So many assets are not entered or less entered into in the value of those undertakings. Why was that done? Well, I guess it's to make companies cheaper. So someone could buy them cheaper and then manipulate them further. We're talking about the moment of conversion here all the time. But after the conversion, one more thing happened, and that's privatisation. And these companies, by converting them, are no longer in the vast majority of state-owned societies, but they are private companies. Someone bought it for obviously less money, less money than they really were worth. So it happens, for example, that the Bus Station in Zagreb turns, so someone buys it in that conversion of 28000 square meters of very valuable business land in Zagreb appears in the ownership of the company, was not included in the underlying capital, no one paid for it. Now they're running some kind of procedure about it. What's going to happen isn't known. It happened in the mass of social enterprises that became stock companies and after private companies, that the apartments were actually owned by these companies, sometimes the companies bought apartments and so owned these apartments, that the apartments became the property of these companies without prior registration. Of course they're wrong and of course they're sold. Someone sold those apartments, someone here, and they made a lot of money. If the situation is now possible for these stock companies, these companies, which were created by the conversion of social enterprises, are listed without any compensation as owners of what they were not able to prescribe under the current rules, which is, in fact, the property of the Privatisation Fund under the current law. So that means we continue with the practice that's been spent for 15 years. The bowl was mostly emptied and now the teflon is being scraped from the bottom. That's what's left. The rest of the property, the land on which these companies are located. It is currently owned by the Privatisation Fund and this law will allow companies to enter their property. The question I'm curious about at what price we'll do it for. If this was not assessed at the time of the start of the company, if it did not enter the underlying capital of the undertakings. He's coming in today, if anyone's gonna pay for it. A completely different thing, the second part of the law that happened to be found next to this is the property of a local, regional self-government unit that is now sold exclusively through public tenders and in which what counterpart Piploic was saying our citizens can in some way legalise what has been illegally built so far. That's why 20% of the plot or less than 20% of the plot wasn't theirs, so no one could get a building permit. But now they will be able to round up the plot without a public tender and will be able to get that building permit provided that it is requested within 6 months. If it is not asked for by the conjecture, of course, it must be that this object is being destroyed as an illegal object. This is the part of the law concerning citizens who will be able to participate and benefit from it. Enabling this first part of the law, allowing the fact that and today it is both international corporations and our large corporations that in a cheap way, so one move of feathers, one provision which will have twenty MPs sitting here in the House, a law that I say is worth so many billions of kunas with one move per legislator that they will be able to sign into the possession of everything that God's right does not have and without a single kuna. Such provision of the law, of course, cannot be accepted by the Croatian People's Party. I sincerely hope that such a thing also this Assembly cannot accept and that until the second reading in this law will find a mechanism in which and under what cost the owners of companies using assets that are not now their own, which is the property of the Privatisation Fund, in which way they will be able to sign in and under what cost to own that property. If we don't, we have to be aware of the fact that we're not selling out family silver, we're sharing that family silver. We share who already has a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52019	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52020	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to say that it's a good thing that the motionor with this law went to regular procedure for two reasons. The first is the reason it is an extremely important law, especially when it is viewed as precisely the matter regulated by these amendments to the Law of Property and other real rights. Another reason we see is that certain provisions of the law are simply not good, and the text of the law itself is not technically well arranged. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: In particular, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the Commission considers that, in the light of the above, it is appropriate to take into account the fact that, in the light of the above, it is appropriate to take into account the fact that, in the light of the above, it is necessary to take into account the nature of the aid, it is necessary to take into account the nature of the aid and the nature of the aid in question to ensure that the aid is compatible with the internal market. It is known that the largest number of buildings in cities are not registered in land books because of lack of administrative act, especially lack of useful permits. First of all, I have to say that the issue of useful permits was an extremely long-term administrative procedure, and that a large part of the buildings especially in the City of Zagreb, but certainly all other cities are not listed in land books, because they do not have the necessary permits, although in many cases it is that such buildings have little deviations from the building permit if that is enough, but that is enough to not be able to obtain a useful permit. If this still shows that a large number of buildings do not have any documentation, and it was built many years ago, then the problem appears to be getting even bigger. Of course, this should have been kept in mind, and a better solution would be made that would, first of all, enable the entry of non-listed properties, of course, be considered buildings, and then, of course, the registration of ownership rights. Whether to resolve this in the administrative process and how the proposing should have worked out this norm much more, because we are afraid that this set norm will not change the factual situation for the better. Where Article 3 and that final part of the article reads: "On the basis of the executive decision of the building building authority, the right of use has been granted, i.e. the primary right of use of its holder of the Treaty on mutual rights and obligations concluded in accordance with the conditions laid down in that decision, the notification of the competent cadastrian authority and that the building permit has been built on a specific building particle, and the building permit. It is evident that this part of the norm was fully clumsyly formulated, and in any case nom technically considered Article 3 should have been broken down to make it clearer, so we suggest that the Proposer do so by way of a second reading because this is just the first reading. In addition, it is not apparent whether the cumulation of individual decisions of the administrative authorities or of alternatives can lead to problems in court practice, and it is clear that it is necessary to write it out first clearly and to arrange the text. As regards Article 4, i.e. the provision of a new Article 390a, it is necessary in any case to make a change of text so that the word "privatisation" is placed on the line," and below "unless special legislation is governed."because this matter must be seen within the framework of other laws. It is apparent that in the process of converting social capital that certain properties that were introduced outside legal traffic into the underlying capital under specific laws would, in fact, be formalised in an inadmissible way by such a provision in Article 390a, even if the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article were not allowed. It is an even worse provision of paragraph 2 which actually denies the revision of the conversion, i.e. privatisation and, in that sense, considers the assessment not to be justified at all, unless a special law is regulated differently. As far as Article 5 of the Law is concerned, I think it is much more correct to state that in the case of a direct contract it is mandatory to carry out art in order to make it impossible to conclude direct contracts, without a public tender, to manipulate the sale of parts of the property, as well as a self-determination of prices which is not good at all and is not acceptable. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, without regard to the comments made, will support the first reading of this law, and in the second reading of course we will make a decision after we see whether the Proposer accepts the comments made. Not only our club, but also the comments made during the debate so far, and probably from the debate that will take place after our presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52021	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Agent Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52022	Thank you very much. Ms. Lalic said here that the provision of Article 390a made it possible to legalise the acquisition of ownership of things that were out of legal traffic, and precisely the opposite, that this Article 390a prevents illegal registers on maritime goods and other items that were outside of legal traffic by means of its own footing, which one of the conditions for acquisition said could have been subject to the acquisition of ownership rights. So it's not really an extra commercial.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52023	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. He's gone. He's losing the right club. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52024	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Members and colleagues, gentlemen of the motion. It is precisely this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and other real rights that wants to settle those issues, those legal articles that have produced really long-term disputes on the issue of books. In fact, one nomotechnical failure that this law on the conversion of the social resources of former social enterprises does not contain a positive definition. In particular, the provisions of Article 390 of the Treaty on the The law on ownership and other real rights stipulate that the general provisions of this law on the conversion of rights of management, use and availability to property rights do not apply to matters where the right to management, use and availability have former social political organisations to things which are not entered into the social capital of legal persons in the process of conversion under the laws governing the conversion of social enterprises, and to matters of legal persons in social property based on pre-occupied and now freed territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as that the conversion of the right of management, use and availability of these matters will be governed by a special law. It is also a question of the conversion of social resources, former socio-political organisations governed by the Law on the Conversion of rights to the social resources of former socio-political organisations, which means that the provisions of Article 390 are. The law on ownership and other real rights in this part has already been consummated. Specific laws governing the issue of the conversion and privatisation of former social enterprises also do not prescribe things for companies as legal successors of former social enterprises to acquire ownership rights. Of course, it's too important that so far, questionable things have been completely removed by these changes, in a way that so far, in court practice, doubt has been resolved in several ways. Thus, the company was registered to the owner of all the properties registered as social property with the right to use the company as the legal predecessor of the company or of the land on which it was built and in the process of converting an estimated facility without having the property fully or possibly partially assessed or the property for which the certificate or solution of the competent authority was delivered that the value was estimated to be social capital. Just the other day we had an opportunity to have a kind of proposal of the Law on Tourism Land, which would like to remove some doubts, but these precisions will also make the harmonisation of the Law on State Administration complete. So there are clear views on the application of laws and regulations that seem to me to be the most important thing in the books of real rights and property issues. So far, it has not been rare for social capital to have an estimated property that could not have been evaluated at all. For example, the rash, the pond, the other things that are out of legal traffic. Maritime well-being, the most important part of which we really want to protect from any kind of devastation is often recorded in both harbors and mules and mules and buildings that have been illegally built on marine well-being. This error in the conversion of companies through litigation sought to display as a rule and to seek recognition of ownership rights on everything that was assessed in the conversion process. At ease and at ease, such a transformation was approached, which in this case it wants to be completely removed. Therefore, a possible permit for the registration of the right of ownership of a company was indicated on these properties and that is to say, the damage to the very Republic of Croatia. What also stems from these amendments to the amendments and additions of the Law of Ownership and other real rights is the contribution of stopping illegal construction because the first article also states that the ownership of a specific part cannot be established until the competent authority of the State Administration confirms that a certain apartment or other room in a particular building and on a specific land particle is an independent use unit. The approval referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall contain the correct list of all parts, all specific parts of the property and shall be built in accordance with the permission of the competent authorities of the state administration. It is precisely the excellence of this provision that those relevant bodies should issue such a certificate. It cannot be dealt with by such a law as some previous speakers have said, that it can be done in a court or even in a land-book procedure. This certificate can also be replaced by the applicable permit, which shows that the building was built in accordance with the design of special parts of the property, confirmed by the building permit, that these specific parts represent an independent useful whole and good that this is the case. Finally, to act systematically with all possible laws and regulations at a stop and from the thought that it is illegally built, because the illegally built facility will not be able to be registered, it will not be subject to a mortgage, fiducial property, its sale price will be lower than when it is registered and of course this law follows modern standards to specify both the provisions and the terms. It is therefore also very clear here in Article 2. and is replaced by a building plan approved by the Authority, the main project which is part of the building permit or which is confirmed by the competent authority of the State Administration. It is very clear, precise, and responsibility is created for other state bodies to include such a precise provision and work. The fact is that such approaches to changes and additions should be resorted to whenever certain things are not clearly defined, when double criteria are created in court practice. When different courts solve the same thing differently and therefore every commendation to the promoter, which particularly regulates the ownership of these commercial companies that have so far been used, and will be forced by legal regulations, that they have also used that land that has not entered the underlying capital, which is not estimated to be used free of charge until today. There has been a very clear assessment of the value of property compared to when it is spoken of from the day when a conversion solution is issued which leaves no possibility of double criterion and finally facilitates the regional and local community, municipalities, cities and counties that some real estate is spoken of, is not sold by competition when it is necessary to form a building plot and thus enables simplified procedure and sell to those at a market price of course, but by direct contract, which would shorten the process until the owner's license is granted, reduce any kind of manipulation but also strengthens local self-government units not to slave to over-registration rather than to sell some part of the property without selling a public tender, of course, all other titles, local self-government and regional, i.e. regional self-government, i.e. With such a standard, the Proposer continues to comply with all those rules that have already in practice created a series of doubts in application and created large and long disputes, making the courts additionally burdened. Certainly support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52025	Thank you very much. At 12.50, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. We have two replicas. First, Mr. Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52026	Dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague Peronja spoke about the construction and the institutions that should be legally supported by the construction, spoke of quite insignificantly about the construction, suggesting that this could be resolved methodically by this law in question. Unfortunately, construction is living matter, because living people are behind it, it was in the function of investment building for the needs of the economy, it was in the function of the necessity of housing. She's both sensitive. Of course, the necessity of housing is far more motivated and if you have no spatial plans, if the spatial plans are simply for the sake of the complexity of the overall system of our Law on Spatial Planning are not passed, if especially in the area of the island or the coast and you have a protected coastal belt, then you are really in great trouble to be legalists, and you can't be legalists if you don't get papers that testify that you can do something. So we need to facilitate the system, we need to get rid of the unnecessary accumulated bureaucratic apparatus and the discretionary behaviour of those monopolist houses that have that position to determine how and when plans will be made and in what time. The part about the land used and did not enter the assessment of the value of the underlying capital is a problem that even legal theorists have not been able to figure out for themselves so far. Of course, the land-book situation inherited such relations and deepened the problems resulting from it. And when we discussed tourist land then we agreed that this law was actually a prerequisite for serious debates so that legal assessment of this particular problem can be justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52027	Thank you very much. Mr. Crown Peronja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52028	Mr. Vice President, it is precisely this law that has answered how and how real estates that were in conversion can be recorded, social property very precisely and clearly. It's about the body of the state administration that will issue a certificate for a specific part of the building, i.e. The apartment, of course, is spoken and this law stops there and the thought of illegal construction and nothing can be done, and it is necessary to clearly clarify the spatial plans of the land-booking process and the books of real estate. Of course, it will not be possible to obtain a building permit if there are no spatial plans of municipalities, cities that need to be in line with county spatial plans and sanctions for those municipalities and cities that do not know how to bring a spatial plan, who do not know where to target their development is exactly the disbanding of municipal and city councils if by 31 December of this year they do not bring these spatial plans and so should be, because no one knows better than the local community where to go, and every other I would say speculation we will bring this, we will bring this, we will sell this, we will sell it, we should be really rigorous and any disrespect should be until the municipal and urban spatial plans are adopted. Most effectively, the most effective is this Croatian government that has passed and proposed a regulation and we have accepted it here, says that we have become responsible for our own development and that we are not thinking about adopting spatial plans to sell something, someone will earn something rather than long-term direction of their own development because a country that is a maritime tradition, which is almost 140 years of tourist destination, then knows that it can develop these two activities along with those other activities so that it can be a valid factor in development and global maritime and global commercial activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52029	Thank you very much. There's another replica. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I would generally agree with my colleague Peronja that the provision of Article 391(2) which allows and facilitates the work of a local self-government unit is extremely welcome if it does not carry out for formal reasons a series of unnecessary competitions. So, in the case of rounding up a building plot up to 20% can be directly and not, as the fellow representative said, assigned to someone, to tycoons or to very poor people who just want to legalise a long built illegal building but to sell it directly by contract. But what else should be thought of, in any case, of possible abuses, which is to define what is the market price if it goes to a direct contract. Well, then certainly if we take the market price to be what the public tender is, and there is no public tender, it would be necessary to precisely define what the price, who will determine it, whether an authorised court expert, whether by the assessment of the tax administration that I don't think is willing to give such an assessment and data. But it certainly needs to be clearly defined here by second reading. And it would be good to consider, then, that colleague Peronja may also be involved in some other cases in which a direct contract would be made possible at a clearly established market price for potential persons who already own a certain property as honest owners and who want to buy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52031	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52032	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, obviously, it's a complicated process of transforming social property into private property. And here, today means we have a law on the agenda that gets in the way of that problem. We also had a recent proposal for a law on tourist land that we discussed very closely here. We all welcomed the government's idea and the government's intention to regulate this one issue that is burning. We've seen that it's about, I think, 100 million squares of land that's still owned-law unregulated. It's about a very high value of real estate, which we have property-legally unsettled. This Law, and we said so, needs to be linked to the amendments to the Law on Property and other real rights, and that is why there have already been such remarks in the reports of the Assembly's working bodies that it is necessary for the second reading to unite these two laws, and that would really be good. Because these two laws are interlinked and should be discussed as one whole. In any case, to greet her, the government has recognised where the problem lies and these are laws that offer certain solutions, and it is especially good that both are in the first reading so that we can really analyse them with quality and possible remarks, amendments to the second reading and fix them. What's most important to me in this law? The most important thing is to address certain doubts and certain difficulties that are in practice related to the social property of companies. In particular, Article 42 of the Treaty on the The Privatisation Act was one solution which established the properties that were assessed in the value of social capital in the conversion process, and for the purposes of entered real estate in land books. However, that solution within the meaning of this Act is not a tabular document and in the case-law the status of this solution is double. So, by law alone, we regulated the adoption of a solution that would define that the value of certain land, that certain land would enter the value of social capital. However, this solution was not a valid tabular document, so it was not the necessary document on the basis of which the right of ownership of a company would be entered in land books. This has certainly led to legal uncertainty, has also led to difficulties in regulating ownership rights and, as we can see, our case-law has taken two positions on these issues. One was implemented, based on such solutions, and the other were treated and considered to be a good basis and a good basis for opening new court proceedings, litigation in which judgments would actually be passed as documents similar to the registration of property rights. In order to resolve this, Article 390a proposes, I think very clearly and precisely, that the company as a legal follower of a social company after the completion of the social property conversion is the owner of the property which is on the day of the assessment, so that is important on the day of the assessment of the value of the underlying capital, in the process of conversion or privatisation, and is now looking for 3 cumulative conditions. In order to avoid the same uncertainty, it means that it is social property with the right to management, use and availability of a social enterprise that could have been subject to acquisition of ownership rights. So, you can't work like that, but we've heard, in practice, either on marine goods, forests and such properties that can't be the subject of acquisition. Third, the value of which was assessed in the capital of the company and which is shown in the capital of the company by the competent authority. So this is very important too. That the value of that property was in the underlying capital. Because if she was in core capital, that means she got into the price of it. So someone wouldn't have gotten something that wasn't covered with that purchase. Real estates legally alienated by the company as a legal follower of a social enterprise before the date of assessment of the value of the underlying capital in the privatisation process are considered to be assessed in the sense of the provision put here. I think that this standard, which I think is quite clear and precise, will remove all the doubts that are now really in our caselaw, we have in the land-booking process and that in many companies themselves it will facilitate the registration of the property rights of such properties in the land book. In fact, there was already one remark on the Justice Committee concerning paragraph 1 for this indent 3 where it was mentioned in this 3rd cumulative condition regarding that property whose value, it said, was assessed in the capital of the company and which, according to the competent authority, was shown in the capital of the company. So it was an observation to delete this word "was evaluated" because it was only about those assessments that so far were given that privatisation and conversion would take place in the future by eliminating any doubt and ambiguity. For all those actions that will take place in the future, it would indeed be the word to be deleted. It is also a good second intention and second objective of this Act, it is related to Article 391 that land owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government of those units can be sold at a fixed market price without the execution of a public tender, so that 2 categories, to the persons who are part of that land, are required to form an unbuilt building of a particle in accordance with the local permit or detailed planning plan, if that part does not exceed 20% of the surface of the planned building particle. It's possible, of course, today, it's not something new, but today it's more complicated. Local self-government units must call public tenders, the procedure of course takes place. It's a little complicated and not only for local self-government units, which here was the word, but it also complicates our citizens who are interested in such a legal action. Therefore, this standard is also good for local and regional self-government units because it facilitates their procedure, but it is also good for those interested entities who expect to regulate their problem in such a legal business. And that means they're going to get to the 20% they need to form that building particle, which is why, in any case, I think this norm is making a lot of and one big improvement in the regulation of such... There is something that we also said on the Justice Committee that refers to this term of market price, that market price is one term that can also be interpreted in practice tomorrow in one way or another, and I think there is absolutely one formula that will define exactly what it is and what the market price is to avoid tomorrow in the application of this Law any manipulations that we have actually witnessed all these years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The market price can be established either by a court expert, there may be information about that market price or by competent tax administrations, and certainly this should not be a problem in order to specify the second reading. What I would like to warn here in the light of the very proposal for a law on page 3 we are talking about Article 390, so we are saying that Article 390 states that the provisions of Article 360 to 365 do not apply to matters where the right to management, use and availability had former social and socio-political organisations to things that were not introduced into the social capital of legal persons in the process of conversion under the Law on Conversion. It is also stated that the provisions of this article are already consummated and are actually unnecessary, and in the very text of the Law we have not been redefined, we have not changed that Article 390. So if this is already explained, I think that we need to do another reading and change the content of article 390, everything that is in it, and unnecessary, is already consummated by other laws, we need to get out of it and make a new provision. In any case, I support this Law, well that in the first reading, for the second reading it should be tied to the Law on Tourist Land, there is undoubtedly a big problem, and as far as the second reading is concerned, we still have enough time to analyze both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52033	Thank you. Dear representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52034	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. Here I would look back at this Act which I am estimating is welcome, which we have been waiting for to finally resolve the legal gap and doubt the caselaw and the ine of the professional public about, about the general succession of former social enterprises that have become companies by converting and privatising, and about what they are documents and the basis of which such transformed companies then register their property on real estate. All that we heard today from colleagues Cain and other representatives is absolutely true that a number of illegal books have happened in Croatia, that many properties, squares of building land, thousands of squares of building land on which converted companies have signed up as followers, never paying for it, nor swearing to this state. Here's why I can't, I don't understand, and I don't understand today the MPs who said this law suits the tycoons, who said that my colleague Vujanic will be able to register today with social companies as followers of former social enterprises, to register without swearing on all the assets that are now in the Privatisation Fund. On the contrary, this new article... calls for cumulative assumptions for the registration of property rights, and this precisely requires that social property with the right to manage the use and availability of a social enterprise which could be subject to acquisition of property rights and whose value has been assessed, I am also clearly obliged to delete in this subparagraph the word "was" whose value has been assessed in the capital of the company and which, according to the competent authority, is shown in the capital of the company, only then can the owner of the property become a company. [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]] It is this provision that the new Article 390 is also accepting what I believe should so far be in court practice, which is in accordance with Article 42. The Privatisation Act, which states that the Fund issues solutions that determine properties that have been assessed in the value of social capital in the conversion process under the Conversion Act. The decision shall be issued at the request of the party, and for the purposes of the entry of real estate into the property of the book of the document, i.e. the laying down of the document, and equally in the work in which we fear what will happen with part of the social capital which is not assessed by the Privatisation Act of Article 47, says "shares, shares and things and rights which are not assessed in the value of the social capital of the legal person, on the basis of the Conversion Act, shall be transferred to the Fund, if there are no grounds for the renewal of the procedure, or if the transfer does not affect the existing technological whole". And here we can connect, like my colleague Bosnjakovic, I believe that these are two very connected laws, the Law on Tourist Land and this Law, but here we see the discussions are different, so colleague Kajin extremely welcomes the Law on Tourist Land and I think he is also welcome, that he is an excellent law that finally solves the issue of tourist land which has been extremely reserved since the conversion, and unfortunately which many hotel houses have been unfairly, free and without any compensation for 15 years, but this law has finally set out to solve this problem and this Law has said that this most valuable Croatian land, tourist land will not be sold, that it will become state property and as such will be protected. Clearly, in this context we should think about the former owners who were taken away and who did not receive a fair fee for it, and then in the debates we heard that it was also a law that actually introduced new nationalisation, citizenship, etc. So, the middle is as always, the truth is somewhere in the middle, it's a good law, but in the final text of that Law it is clear and loud to say what is meant by the return of land to former owners, that is, with a fair fee, but here's this law right here is this article 39a. is a key article of this Act which clearly and loudly states how companies as followers of former social enterprises will be able to enter property on property and will no longer happen that many have become rich, acquired enormous values, and in fact without paying the kuna to the state, illegally and would be able to write down the final text of this Act, then clearly and loudly, what will happen to the former illegal books and I personally believe that here must be a much stronger and more active role of the Privatisation Fund, I have warned our State Attorney General because I hold that since when the former Attorney General has become a part of the State's Attorney's Office that he must worry about the protection that "ex leg" is entrusted to him with the protection of state property regardless of the mandate of state bodies, state funds or companies owned by Croatia. And I therefore think that, together with the Privatisation Fund, the State Attorney's Office must take a much more active role to take over and look after these illegal books, the principle of trust in land books is not valid until 2007. Therefore, there is time to correct a lot of things and fix what has been done. The second excellent provision of this law is Article 391 which has been amended in its paragraph 2 and has now allowed that no public tender should be held and in the case of acquisition of ownership when units of local self-government alienated property and acquired it, so far it has been possible for Croatia to now be able to obtain units of regional or local self-government. And I also think that it should put a level playing field for a legal person in the majority, in full or large ownership of the Republic of Croatia. It should also be placed in the ownership of units of local self-government because we are now in a position that a particular city or municipality will not have to call a tender if something sells to a state-owned company but will have to call a tender if it wants to transfer some of its property to its own company in its own possession. And one more thing, I'm going back because I have a little more time on Article 1 that really introduces order into the legal system of order that I can't book special parts unless they're in accordance with the building permit or if they don't have a valid permit and I suggest in that part of the proposer that she try what her colleague Lalic was saying to try somewhere. We cannot, because of former inherited irregular relations or illegal ones, continue to encourage this mess by law today. What should be done in transitional provisions really because we have skyscrapers with 100 or two hundred apartments that are not registered and those who have built these skyscrapers and sold apartments have no interest in enrolling the entire building, and then perhaps for such cases of construction before 90 or I do not know what the key years to try to find some transitional provision but certainly that for all future and present cases, this provision should remain in Article 1 of the proposed amendments and additions. And these other articles that introduce termological differences and that make it easier for me to say, my colleague Cain said that well when it comes to poor people, but what if it's tycoons, so I don't really know if acquiring ownership and the Law of Ownership could write one for those up to the average income so much and for those with a little higher income, so it's unserious. I think it's a good idea for everyone to be able to get faster and simpler books to put order into our acquisition of ownership.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52035	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52036	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! Listen, as far as ownership is concerned, this is a serious issue, especially if we bear in mind that the Republic of Croatia is a legal successor of the Socialist Republic of Croatia in which two ownership regimes ruled. So we need to know that in the past Socialist Republic, Croatia has also become a ownership relationship. And all the legal dealings of legal acquisition of property from the former state are still valid today. Many such acquired legal transactions, legal properties have already been entered in land books or partly entered into some property of a land body are partly entered in land books, such as an apartment in a skyscraper that has neither a building permit nor a useful permit and the others have not entered it but is not therefore the non-owners. They're owners, but even though they're off-book owners, we've had that notion before. If we adopt such a principled provision as it supports, the aim is to address the problems created in the conversion and privatisation of the Property Act. It's just going to be hard to solve. We're going to have a hard time dealing with this because there's already a legal system. But, well, sometimes you should try. Therefore, the amendment to Article 73(3) aimed at resolving legal issues in the field of conversion and privatisation but will have minor effects. It may only legalise or register property that is created in conversion and privatisation but its consequences cannot be ignored that it will also be on other owners because in Croatia ownership is unique. So we say by one provision that those who are parts, the owners of parts of the property from today are not the owners of the property because according to the applicable law, and that does not change, property is obtained by enrolling in land books. We didn't see that problem. As a result, counterpart Lalic noted very well that the consequences of the law and objectives are not mutually harmonised. One more thing. It should be said that the applicable provisions of the Law on Land Books and the applicable Law on Property and other real rights have enabled so-called “the Law on Land Books” to be applied. The merger, the merger of two land and book bodies. So we have a combination that the land was a society, so people bought apartments, so they acquired land under the applicable law. But not everyone bought the apartments. Not everyone bought apartments in a building, so they became protected tenants, etc. And now we have such a situation that we can't just solve it with a law that will aim at legalising conversion and privatisation. That's not how we're gonna do it. So I repeat again. Of course, the goals of one time, even if that was the kind of conversion and privatisation, are to subscribe to the owners who have acquired real estate and movable property, rights and others are to be entered into land books as owners of these companies or as we call them. But these consequences can't be affected by the others because we don't have an overview of the rest of the condition. Let's just say, in case we had one of those, they used to be roommates. The concept of roommates no longer exists today, but the consequences of this relationship exist. So there was an apartment that used two families, had the status of tenants or tenants. Such an apartment may be registered today or placed in a book of IDs in a ransom contract but still stand two families. They're still co-owners and roommates. So property is very interesting. We can't even be imaginative of everything that's going on, so we take one move to solve it without looking at the consequences that's been going on for a long, long time. I just wanted to point that out. Therefore, the provision of article 72 remains the property of a specific part of the property, established by enrolment in a land book as a right related to a certain ownership part of that property, it remains and undoubtedly all contracts that have purchased such a part of the property, therefore, are not valid, we cannot cancel it, they have acquired property, unfortunately have failed to sign it for a lot of things, and even because the state itself has declared that by registering in land books, you actually become owners but it is not responsible for the correctness of the facts entered in that land book. So there are more problems. For the purposes of Article 390a, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 390a. Therefore, the company that made the conversion, therefore, all of its rights and obligations, recorded this, and the property could have been subject to conversion and it was estimated there is no reason not to get a valid correction and to register in land books. There's no reason, and so far, there's no reason for not being able to sign up. I agree that we should have all these four cumulative conditions for a tabular ID to be good. Therefore, that before the right of management, the use of availability could have been subject to ownership rights, that the value had been assessed and that it had been shown in the capital for conversion. Then we can say that it was a conversion valid. But what we're going to do is we've got cases of some company, some company bought in bankruptcy without a valid real estate list, especially real estate. And in bankruptcy he bought it and became a legally valid business. He bought it from the court, from the state de facto bought it, and then we're setting him conditions that we're actually doing reverse, we're doing reverse. Therefore, the court should give him correction, and how the court will come to this would be a second question if he had the right to enroll. And look at Article 2, the property that the company as a legal follower of a social enterprise has legally alienated, regardless of what has not been converted, we are now verifying it. That's what we say ok, he sold, before he turned, we say ok. Is that what we wanted? We may be, but we need to know what the consequences are. I think that, in any case, in some way transitional and final provisions should be said, and that is, I am convinced that the government also wants rights, therefore, real rights acquired until the entry into force of this Act remain the rights of the owner, of course if they are acquired in a legitimate manner. And in the end, you're the majority of the MPs were talking about ownership rights, the unit of local self-government. They're all right to say it's unnecessary to call a competition, of course it's more complicated, we know what it's about. But it says here at the market price. So we need to know when we're already passing an act, or the law on how we're going to get to that, let's call legal market prices. We cannot miss the speculation and the legal practice, we must say, the market price in terms of this law is the price which is the average land price in the area of self-government, or self-government or part of self-government. Which depends, of course, whether it's by the sea, if it's somewhere else. That's what we had. a fair price, if you know, and on the basis of the average price established, etc., etc., so that we do not leave at will when the headship is already determined as the executive body and not the representative body is selling and the price then we would really have to determine or at least determine what the price would be. So, of course, I support the issue of ownership and registration of ownership acquired in conversion and privatisation one time ends but thinks this way by solving this issue, I'm afraid we're going to cause more serious consequences than the positive effects of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52037	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52038	Thank you very much. Well, here you are, colleague Leco, unfortunately, you said about what's now the big deal of this article 390a. that cumulatively determines the assumptions of acquisition of ownership when it could actually be acquired so far, enter etc.. That's the problem. What has so far been entered and acquired and I claim illegal gain, was obtained without a kuna paid in the state budget or the Privatisation Fund precisely because in the case of court practice it was questionable and among the professional public whether it was a general superintendent, so, what was happening, I would compare it to the later found property in the case of succession. It happened that companies were going into conversion, that some properties were listed there, and the company was confirmed that the company was now being converted from a former social company and then a solution was found somewhere to assign a former social enterprise that had never been registered. And it was brought to the book and these companies said here's a solution to the conversion, we're the followers of this former social, social, and here's what we want to register. So you are booked these squares and squares and thousands of squares between inim and tourist land completely, completely illegal. And there's something else I want to say that there won't be anything, so I was saying what my colleague Lalić mentioned and you mentioned is the problem, but mostly with those houses and buildings that were built somewhere before the 1990s, it's not a property problem because there are no more unknown properties in the buildings, so the apartments are either bought out, the ones that haven't been bought are the other property of now transformed companies or are excluded from capital and have become property, cities, municipalities or state. So they will all be the owners of individual parts and co-owners of land that serves for the regular use of buildings. Clearly, the only thing that is controversial is the land that serves the regular use of the building, it is not yet clearly and loudly established and done in front of the administrative bodies. So there will be no dispute for all future cases of good that Article 1 has defined these changes, but for formerly built skyscrapers it would be good in transitional provisions to determine something that is if they do not have a useful license, which then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52039	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52040	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you're two things, two things you've been showing yourself to. Tell me who owns the apartments in buildings that can't send authority to the proper law, so I can't sign up for land books. Who owns it? He's gone, because property is obtained by enrolling in land books, by enrolling in land books. That norm is not controversial. She's not controversial. Who's gonna keep those apartments alive? No, no, and when it comes to Article 390a, if the interpretation understands well, then, by the very logic of things for the future, the entry into the land books of transformed companies requires cumulatively all four conditions. I don't know what you're replicating for me then. And what happened in the conversion that someone signed up without having any of these terms don't prescribe to me. That's what I didn't say or talk about. That's what I want to be involved in. Unfortunately, killing deadlines in a very formal land-booking process. Gone? ... I'm scared of everything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm afraid there's no... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52041	Okay. We'll interrupt the session now. We'll pick her up at 3:00. The first is Honored Representative Antun Kapraljevic and Emil Tomljanović and Ante Markov. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52043	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52044	Mr. Kapraljevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52045	Thank you, Mr. President. ... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52046	Please, you have no more words. Please sit down. Mr. Kapraljevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52047	... Well, I'm in, but someone's pulling me out. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] [[Intruder: Make yourself count there.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Here I would continue that morning debate that was being held on the Law of Property and other real rights. I hope that a bit of an assembly or an assembly will calm down. Thank you. I even thought about giving up the debate, but there's this important thing going on in this amendment and supplementing the law. What happens is that we're legalizing something that happened in the past, we're legalizing one part of the conversion and privatisation, we're legalizing one part of the robbery practically because Article 390a in paragraph 2 we're legalizing the part that was carried out legally, and also since we're legalizing what was done automatically, and the part that was carried out illegally, so I'm going to remind you that there are only some things that are the findings of the conversion and privatisation audits, and I'm going to remind you of what property we're dealing with and what amounts we're talking about, and what areas there were land, any construction facilities, so I need to remind you that it's about 48484 million marks or a billion kunas that are not according to the Law on Conversion and privatisation of fundamental capital of societies, and that's very well said the revision of conversion and privatisation. And there it is, it's about 2 million 774 thousand 577 square meters of land and it's about buildings of an area of 89 thousand 265 meters. I know that my colleague Lovrin was also talking about a part of the law that says in Article 47 that all these assets should be written and audited, that all these assets should belong to the Croatian Privatisation Fund. However, since the revision could not have seen whether it belonged to the Privatisation Fund, it only found that part should be entered into the Privatisation Fund. However, it also states in this article if there are no grounds for the renewal of the procedure or if the transfer does not affect the existing technological unit and that is why I doubt that all these 2 million 774 thousand square metres of land or buildings of 89 million square meters have entered the Privatisation Fund at all. And that's why I'm asking myself if this isn't the possibility that those who did this part in the meantime in any way went to dispute and weren't transferred to the Privatisation Fund, that we should legalize this article, because in the meantime they've made an assessment and they've satisfied everything we're looking for in this article 390's where we say these three things are tied up, but they're also satisfied and we're going to give them the opportunity to get the part that they've already robbed without compensation. And that's why I'd ask the secretary of state to explain this part to us, because from this review report, it turns out that this is going to happen because there's no record of how many companies, how many companies, not now more social than private ones, because in the meantime, privatisation has passed, how many private companies continue to search for this land that they didn't initially enter into their core capital. And that's why if we did it this way and we didn't know what it was about, I wonder if it wasn't a sequel to what was once started. If I didn't like to be told because the fact is that these people who have converted and privatized have come to some land, property or buildings or land cannot take it away, it's clear because they became owners. Which way they came at all now I don't want to discuss it, but if we're going to legalize it then that's what we have to say. So we're legalizing something that's been made illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52048	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52049	We don't legalize this robbery, I want to make it right, because this article 390, and it actually doesn't allow it to be transferred into possession of what's been robbed or what's kind of illegal. On the contrary, this Article 390a allows what has been assessed in the underlying capital to be assumed and paid so that they can book this company in their own ownership.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52050	Thank you. Now respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52051	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to split my argument into two parts. The first part relating to Article 391 for all matters related to the decision of the heads of the units of local and regional administrations and self-government, of course all considered in terms of the new proposed legislative provisions. What is really going on here and where I see actually these positive shifts, or changes that will allow cityal, municipal, primarily headships to have specific issues that appear to them almost in their daily work, have now a normative framework so that they can act in a different way or no longer in a way such as that so far, in any case both faster and more effective than natural persons in the first order that require a certain reaction from these units of local self-government and with decisions being taken when they are resolved on their rights or on their issues. What exactly is this about? Therefore, Article 391 of the Law on ownership and other real rights has been amended in such a way that local self-government units are no longer obliged to call public tenders in any situation to distribute property to their own. In the first instance, these problems are tackled in the case of a small square of these properties and these particles or parts of particles are needed to form building particles or thus resolve the land-mark situation or to produce appropriate documents in order to resolve their property-legislative problems for applicants in this regard. Therefore, the absolute positive shift in this regard as well as in the sense that several units of local self-government, or their chieftainships, do not have to call for tenders, which implies, first of all, the decision-making of tendering, and then the course of a given deadline, and again, the collection of offers, the decision-making of the most favourable offer, so all related to the flow of time, costs and decision-making. However, this is no longer necessary in the sense of amending this law, because when it comes to disposing of ownership rights to legal persons owned or owned by the Republic of Croatia, or it is proposed that the unit of local and regional self-government that this legal obligation would not then be, therefore, in one direct way but under the conditions of establishing a market price be distributed with such particles or properties owned by units of local self-government. There are certainly two basic preconditions in that first part when it comes to building particles. Therefore, they must, of course, always be in accordance with the local permit or detailed planning of the arrangement and, in terms of their surface, the legal solution which should also be supported that part which is therefore an integral part of the purchase contract must not exceed 20% of the surface area of the planned building particle. And the other part of my discussion and my presentation would, of course, refer to this article 390a, which my predecessors commented on, although one in one light, the other in the other light, that is, with a positive and negative sign. In fact, Article 390a regulates what is absolutely necessary, and such solutions should be absolutely supported by the way in which the right of ownership is recorded, filling in a certain legal gap that has emerged in the registration of property rights, legal persons or businesses as legal successors of social enterprises. And my view that such a solution to the law where the conditions of a certain legal person are cumulatively prescribed will be fulfilled in order for certain property to be entered into by a particle in its possession, so clearly prescribed by law, in fact, to cause one clarity and transparency of the way in which ownership rights are acquired, not in fact, but in the registration of property rights, of the legal persons concerned, and therefore of the companies which are the legal followers of social enterprises. There were a lot of words about the fact that in the case of illegal books and what problems arise when it comes to illegal books. This provision of the law regarding the situation we had so far will actually resolve all the doubtful situations or irregularities that we had in practice met, and they were manifested in various case-laws, reactions, in different ways certain land-based library departments of municipal courts because in a system registered in terms of transfer of ownership rights we had no clear provisions in the Law on Property and other real rights on the one hand and this legal void did not fill in the provisions of the Privatisation Act and neither the provisions of the privatisation law, i.e. Article 42, 47, which should have in a certain way detailedly regulated this matter. In my view, therefore, doubt in this sense does not, therefore, everything that is the basis of this Law will be in terms of the right of ownership as such, the courts will have a clear situation on the basis of an amended law which the real estate will be recorded and in which way and which cannot be recorded on the one hand, and on the other hand there will be a very clear legal situation, in a particular situation, so it may also occur that there have been illegal in the book, so the way is then absolutely opening up, or the possibility of revoking such books if irregularities in terms of the transfer of property rights have occurred or occurred in certain books of real estate itself. So I would conclude that, in one sense and another, this amendment to the law should be supported. Given that it is the first reading, of course certain remarks we have had on both working bodies and which could be heard today in the debate, I think that the Proposer will also consider and take seriously, and in this regard I expect perhaps in some solutions of even more high quality shifts. The absolute support of this law, and I think that a lot of the ambiguities that have occurred in this segment, but a very important segment, will therefore, regulate the transfer of ownership rights in practice, in a good way, resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52052	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52053	I thank Mr. President, and I thank my colleagues for explaining it so nicely, I fully agree with him. That's right, we're legalizing something, we're legalizing something that we now declare legal. What about what was done against the law, which wasn't done under the law, which wasn't evaluated, which didn't enter the underlying capital, what about when we say in paragraph 2 where we say that they're legalizing the part that was made by law. What about the ones that aren't made by law? In the same way that we're legalizing those who are by law, we're also drawing a line with those who made it illegal. Because many of these are on this list and it's about a billion and 200 million kuna. Many of these, meanwhile, with the Privatisation Fund, have solved all this and will now legalise under this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52054	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Snježana Bagic, please. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52055	Thank you, Mr. President, absolutely with this bill of law, there's nothing that's wrongly registered, absolutely not possible. This Law literally sets out what everything must, which assumptions must be fulfilled in order to be recorded by those properties that fall within this segment, therefore, a segment that has been drawn up, in fact, to which the right of ownership is subject by legal persons, therefore, by companies as legal successors of former social enterprises. I also said in my debate, therefore, if it was done or happened at any time or any illegal book book, and possibly there are such situations, however, it is very likely, given the number of books that occured, absolutely this law does not prevent, but for the sake of clarity of conduct, it is actually making it possible to see in which specific situations there have been irregularities, there have been irregularities, and what I have responded to and fellow Leki, in this sense ownership rights, to the recognition of the right of ownership of someone else who is entitled to a certain particle do not become obsolete, therefore, one who considers that his ownership rights have been violated, and if he has an active legitimacy to protect them, he will be able to protect them in a judicial procedure but which, in view of the recording of ownership rights and the way of accounting of ownership rights are now much clearer than it was before.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52056	Thank you. And final review, State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52057	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As it is said in the debate, ownership is a serious issue. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as proposing these amendments and the addition of the Law on Property and other real rights in the preparation of this Second Reading Act as a final proposal, will really seriously consider all comments and suggestions. Namely, arranged ownership relations deserve our special attention and are repeatedly debated here. I am also pleased to have recognized the need of course with certain remarks and suggestions on how to improve this, to finally question the conversion of ownership relations and social ownership systems to be rounded up and finished. The Government does indeed consider that it also allows these amendments and the additions of the Law to be for the provision of Article 390a. I don't think that's legal, let's rob or... tycoons than the other way around. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, there is a clear regulation here of what has never really been prescribed by the laws that have been converted so far, which is what a legal person, a commercial society in conversion could have gained. And so, among other things, what was against the company’s capital and what was contained in the statement by the competent authority, therefore, in the statement of the company’s real estate. So there is no, when it comes to what has been acquired, only what could have been acquired by the regulations and what could have been considered to be manifest and contrary to its converted capital. All other things that could not have been obtained legally, and what of course could then be the subject of a special procedure including judicial proceedings. Also, I'm glad you recognized the need to make an exception to the rules when it comes to... competitions, real estate availability owned by local administration units and self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government as a proposer will consider a suggestion to prescribe what is considered a market price to make these rules of conduct as clear as possible. I repeat, this is the first reading of the Law, and the government will really thank all the MPs who have debated and made their suggestions and remarks, and the government will try very hard to consider these remarks, respecting the text of the law as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52058	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on ownership and other real rights. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Act and other real rights is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 78 votes for, 13 abstentions and 2 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52062	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, the honourable gentlemen of this House last year, more precisely on 15 October 2004, passed the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and, from then on, it has been done in a way that the temporary director of the Centre has been appointed to prepare for the start of the Centre's work. He brought a provisional Statute, conducted the procedure for enrolment of the Centre in the court register and took action to establish the Centre's Governing Council. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has appointed members of the Governing Council of the National Centre and we have made statutes in accordance with all relevant regulations. We have referred it to all state, relevant state authorities and we have received certain remarks. All opinions and remarks are included, adopted, discussed. What I would like to add and ask for is that after we accepted opinions at the meeting of the Governing Council held on December 1st, we made the statute that was delivered to you, but in it, I beg you for an apology, in the preamble I missed that the date remained on December 1, 8, November instead of December 1. I ask you to respect my apology and thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52063	Thank you. The Committee's rapporteurs? No, I don't. Representative of the Government, State Secretary Željir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52064	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me just say briefly that I remember when we passed the law that we have really passed this law with one envious majority in the Croatian Parliament which actually confirms that the Croatian Parliament has recognized this project of external evaluation of education that we have not so far had as one very valuable project which can count on support and profession, but also the Croatian Parliament, which was based on the opinion of the profession and respected it. We are in the debate, I will remind you very clearly that we accept your suggestion that consent to the Statute is given by the Croatian Parliament, not by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as most often happens when it comes to such public institutions. That's why we're discussing the Statute today. And secondly, we have also committed to your suggestion that the National Centre with an external evaluation of education also submits a report to the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture at least once a year, so the first next meeting of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education in the following year will be in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. We do not need to talk specifically about the importance of the external evaluation of education. We are setting it up with this, and already in May 3rd, 4th and 5th, we will have the first national exams and the report on the first national exams will be given to the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I'd like to thank you once again for being at such a high level of consent to bring this law. I hope that happens with the Statute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52065	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52066	Dear Mr. President, Madam President of the Management Council, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, although it is a matter of some sort of formality such as confirming the Statute of a public institution established by this Croatian Assembly to us in the SDP, it seems important to highlight several important things related to the very measure of the work of the future Centre for the Foreign and Existing Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. In particular, given the fact that the proposal itself for the establishment of the Centre or the establishment of an institution that should carry out an external evaluation in education came from our Club at the beginning, in the middle of last term. That, as the Secretary of State pointed out, the law itself and the project itself was adopted with a high degree of consensus but also respecting the fact that there are extremely high expectations of the work of the Centre and the projects that the Centre should implement. The Law on the National Centre for Higher Education was passed sometime in October 2004. There it took a little more than a year to form an Administrative Council that would then be able, which very quickly did so, and proposed to us the Statute. We're a little sorry it took so long, but we're also glad that it's finally formed and we're hoping that right now the Centre will be able to start working competently. In the SDP, it still seems to us, we want to point out this also on this occasion that the introduction of a system of evaluation into education is a good step that can and certainly wants to encourage a number of changes in the system of schools because only, only systematic evaluation will give us insight into the right state of affairs, define some problems and perhaps offer the way to solve them. I think it is good that the government has accepted a proposal that was just from our Club that this Statute of the Centre is given at the Croatian Assembly and that the annual report on the work of the Centre is submitted to the competent Committee on Education because it is still an important topic, although we are very often prone to topics from education as many as we declare important things in the nature of things to be marginal. And it is important to us that the work of the Centre and the results of the Centre will also be discussed in the Croatian Parliament because I hope that, and somehow, our idea that the work of the Centre itself should have a great impact on the entire school system, on its structure as well as on the adaptation of the educational market, the education system on the labour market, but it is good that these problems and the public debate are also being discussed here in the Croatian Assembly because I think that there is a need to expand the base of interest for problems in education and promote the importance of education, but especially the quality of education. A few sentences on the metrics of the future Centre for Education or the activities of the Centre. We still find it important in the SDP to define quite clearly the concept and importance of external evaluation in education. External evaluation is a set of defined and clear measures and procedures aimed at assessing and assessing the effectiveness of the educational process and objectively monitoring the outcome of education. The external evaluation and according to our laws is carried out by the National Centre as an institution that outside of direct educational work, and it is some sort of separation from internal evaluation by schools or teachers and students themselves and an evaluation of their own success. We have established an institution that would deal with external evaluation and I want to make it very clear here and in the public perhaps the most challenging moment or part of the external evaluation it is a matter of state graduation is an important segment of external evaluation, but still only one element and it is necessary to develop other components of the external evaluation system and in this sense the whole concept based on both national exams and on some other measures that are envisaged in the work of the Centre we evaluate good. I would like to point out here what is pointed out in the Statute itself that it is very important to establish not just any very effective cooperation mechanisms of the Centre and other institutions, especially the Institute of Education, so that the data obtained through the evaluation process can be used as an indicator of the necessary changes in the content of the school, or in some kind of adoption of some new national curricula, but also in a system that primary education teachers both of the undergraduate and graduate and permanent training of teachers and teachers. I think that it should already be clear to everyone that only by functionally linking the external evaluation system to other segments of the education system we will achieve the goal of making this external evaluation a factor that affects and which should give an incentive to introduce innovation into the education system, to manage the system itself, and ultimately to lead an education policy. Because only if we're going to base the whole story on a very connected and complex system that needs to be based on high professionalism and ethics will we be able to achieve a goal that I think is consensually supported here, which is to improve the quality of educational work as well as to direct students to the desired goals of education that are then achieved by work and pawning, and not otherwise. And I would like to appeal here on behalf of the SDP Club once again in a way to the presidents of the ministries and only the administrative council of the centre that the limit between the good implementation of the external evaluation project and one public work is very thin, because it is a very sensitive matter and that it should be extremely careful in designing the system itself and implementing projects, because the poorly executed system of external evaluation, national exams and state graduations can have rather devastating influences since it is about students, since it is about children and not about other things where experiments are still allowed. The second, conditionally stated danger in the external evaluation system itself, and why we care very much about being well designed, well executed, with all of its constituents, is that in some way the purpose of schools is questionable, or the goals of school. And once again, we warn the ministry that it is really high time to start dealing with very serious things primarily by adopting national curricula or curriculative reform, because it seems to us that the chosen methodology as it has now started working in the ministry first of the catalogues of knowledge that have been renamed to a very strange methodology in HNOS is not a good methodology for the adoption of a national curricula. Because we believe, however, that the objectives and outcomes of education and the level of competence that are intended to be achieved at each level of education should first be designed, not in some way, to list the contents that students need to know without a very clearly defined and precise goal of education itself. A few words about the state's graduation which is one of the very important activities of this center. There's a lot about state graduation being written and spoken out in public, and every so many topics come up somehow on the agenda, but because of the vision of the closeness and simplicity of the topic, because we all have some personal experience about it, everyone feels competent about the state's graduation talking. But once again on behalf of the SDP, we would like to warn that the state's graduation will not, in spite of the very attached opinion as a magic wand, solve all our problems in school, but that the effect will be exactly the opposite. The introduction of a state degree will, with many expected and positive effects, generate a number of other problems and cause major earthquakes in education, as it will point to those shortcomings and irregularities and problems in the system itself. Therefore, it is a project of state graduation and I want to make it very clear that it is necessary to prepare very, very well and to carry out it gradually respecting the current situation in each individual school and respecting all differences in certain parts of Croatia. Our project of state graduation was developed based on one scientific project. Once again, we want to encourage the national centre and the leadership of the national centre to certainly respect the experiences of the countries that introduced the state's prom because there's no need to open up some kind of hot water. Because introducing a state degree, we need to see the introduction of a state graduation as the result of a single process, but as a process that should ultimately be a good project both for the benefit of the school and for the benefit of the students. It certainly wouldn't be good if one relatively bad performance of the state's prom was just another trauma for our students in the whole system. In particular, we find it important to point out that it is unusually important to form standards on which national graduation is to be conducted, because it must be conceived, these standards must be conceived so that during the entire schooling of water learning, teachers lead students to learn from some factography to solving the problem, from reproduction to creating some new values. One detail we discussed when we passed the law now somehow round the formal structure of the state's own graduation by verifying this statute. It seems bad enough we don't have a pedagogical standard yet. Croatia is one of the few countries in Europe where education and what school looks like, in which conditions this learning and teaching happens on some ordinary law, because we simply do not have a teaching standard. When we passed the law in October 2004 it was therefore a year and two months ago and when we from the SDP proposed that, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Primary and Secondary Education, the Government proposed that the Ministry propose to us at the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the pedagogical standard. Then we received the answer that here is the standard only to be here for the debate at the Croatian Parliament. The standard has not yet been seen, and indeed another request or appeal, or it would be better to tell the ministry that the sooner it really comes in line with the legal obligations proposed by the pedagogical standard here at the debate in the Croatian Parliament, because now we are in a position to define a system that will eventually interrogate all students after one exam, but that we have done almost nothing or very little to provide them with equal conditions for learning and teaching. One detail. I think that whole system of external evaluation and the establishment of a quality management system because that external evaluation should be. It will be incomplete if, in parallel with the external evaluation system, it will not be resolved, introduced or implemented by the internal evaluation system, and I think it would be good if the ministry prepared these projects as well. Yeah, they already did. Okay. In any case, I think it is commendable that some of the appeals from this Parliament come to the ministry, that the whole system would make sense. Since the activities of this Centre prescribed in Article 11 on behalf of this Statute are largely correspondence with these messages. We will support the statutes of this center with another remark that kind of indirectly stems from the very statute but is not quite accurate. In fact, what we would like to highlight is the modern trends in education that kind of shift the learning line. Until some time ago, learning, or education, was mostly in institutions. Now the whole concept moves towards a concept of learning that is not necessarily related to the very educational institutions in the traditional sense in which we know them and it would be good if the national centre in its activity was engaged in the evaluation of the non-formal education programme and certified competences derived from the informal and formal education programme, and I think that in that sense it would give a key message that the learning process is important, that what is new throughout the story is the acquisition of new competences, personal competences based on lifelong learning. And finally, we hope that despite the fact that it has been a long time since the law was passed to the statute itself, the centre will be able to team up with highly skilled and competent people with a proper profile. The Centre must also become a scientific institution, among other things, and we support the adoption of this Statute, indicating that we will closely monitor the implementation of individual projects in the school system itself in order to ensure that the announced objectives of improving the quality of education and promoting a new system of work-based values and competences are achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52067	Thank you. HNS Club respected deputy president Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52068	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen from the center and government. The HNS will support the adoption of this Statute of the Centre for External Evaluation of Education, given that it is a single step, in fact a complex project for training the education system in Croatia to operate on some recognizable and European comparable criteria. The main observation is the time in which we are discussing this status simply for reasons that are incomprehensible to me, the Statute of the Centre has been waiting so long and we are just today making rules under which the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education can function. It is clear that the external evaluation of education is one element in the system of evaluation of education, on the one hand horizontally, on the other hand vertically. Horizontally in so much that it only makes sense in combination with the developed system of internal evaluation of education, so the system of evaluation of education within schools by teachers of themselves and parents and users of education, which are students. Therefore, the development of an internal evaluation project of education is at least as important as this Centre for external evaluation, and in this sense I think it is necessary to take a little more energetic measures and steps to help establish this system of internal evaluation of education in educational institutions where teachers and students themselves have the opportunity to assess the quality and benefits of work and working methods. Secondly, we are now in a situation like a country where, for this kind of project, we are at our disposal of European funds. Therefore, if there is something in which it is possible and necessary and necessary to obtain funds from European funds, then it is precisely this mechanism of different aspects of the evaluation of education. And we would be interested in the HNS Club that the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education in this regard is taking on, whether there are projects that have already been running for funds from European funds in terms of development of the Centre programme, which are projects, because I suppose something has already been done. However, we are not informed about this, and this is something that is clearly a classic example and a candidate for funding from European funds. As I said, this Center for the External Evaluation of Education is not only one of the elements in this horizontal sense, so externally and internally, but also vertically. Therefore, the evaluation of secondary education is of course one of the elements in the system of evaluation of primary education on the one hand and of higher, higher and higher education on the other. And has its own reason for existence and real meaning as an integral part of this vertical system and as an integral element that also has synchronised, or harmonised criteria with those used to evaluate primary education, or to evaluate higher education later. Since the results of the evaluation of secondary education are also based on qualifications for enrolment at the university. Therefore, from that point of view it would also be very important and important to know what is happening in these other areas and when the projects for the evaluation of education will be completed and in what sense and to what extent they are in line and to this work that will work at the Centre for External Educational Assessments. It is clear and of course we also had a discussion on the board that the system of evaluation of education is a system that can only work if it is constantly developing. But on the other hand, some of the elements on which he leans must be placed immediately, because if they are not put up immediately then there is no point and there is a very real possibility and a potential problem for me in the first exams at the end of this academic, or school year to become a general chaos, that people begin to rebel terribly against the criteria that have been used, in the way of testing, to the mass of things that will be an integral part of this external evaluation and for that to be prepared and to see how they will react, who will evaluate... So all that is is the work of the Centre, but what in this business the Centre must predict and be prepared to react to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the elements of all research that is almost decisive, and certainly most important in the quality of knowledge with which students leave school is as research shows the time each student spends daily at school. In other words, one-way teaching is the main factor of student success in education. We're not ready for that. An integral part of this job that the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education here contributes to is the creation of conditions for one-way teaching. Creating conditions for one-way teaching means school buildings and means teachers who will perform that course. I remind you, we don't have any money for that in the budget. We in the budget remind you we don't have any money for additional teacher education. So what the Centre would have to do on some of the foundations for which there are finances is simply not secured. Finally, I want to remind you of the fact, which I suppose many of you know, that there exists at European level, as well as comparatively with North America, there are regular research which, on 5 subjects, 5 school subjects, usually native language, mathematics, foreign language, I think physics and history examines the quality of comparative, quality of education. So he's looking at the quality of education. Let's say the difference between Germany, Finland, Great Britain, Sweden so that we can also value the quality of education and knowledge schools provide for their students. For a number of years in the first place in these studies, Finland, as you know, is highly coordinated, so it is highly consistent with, these results of this research with the economic success of the country. The success in education and this high school is highly consistent with the country's success, economic performance in general. We recommend on behalf of the HNS Club that the Centre for External Evaluation of Education include Croatia, make an effort for Croatia to be involved in this research, such as Poland, and that we also have some measure in which our education train our people to function on that market, so that they function on the European market of educated people. Based on what we already advocate, which is that education is the main driver of the development of every modern country and so is Croatia. The HNS Club will support the adoption of this statute.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52069	Thank you. And the HDZ club, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52070	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, President of the Board of Directors, here we have today the Statute of the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. Already two colleagues have told the introduction what this centre means, and the prerequisite and quality of education is indeed a permanent evaluation of the system. In the last two years, Croatia has started a whole series of changes in the system of education, a strategic development document aimed at improving the education and education system, which has the task of training young people, children, but also adults for equal inclusion in the social community and the world, the government adopted on 9 June this year as a plan for developing a system of education and education. Croatia has launched a whole series of changes in its system. This year, the HNOS mentioned here with the purpose of discharging students was already brought here, teaching is based on the teaching process. Teaching is directed toward a student by respecting student’s abilities and proneness. The introduction of students in research-oriented teaching, this is what all this HNOS newspaper brings, and a state graduation is certainly being introduced for the purpose of improving and developing vocational education is being established. One of the important activities, and for the purpose of improving and ensuring the quality of education, is the external evaluation of education. By introducing national exams from the Croatian language, mathematics and foreign languages of the English language, already in the school year of this year, at the end of the school year we heard from the secretary of state in May, in the first classes of high school, these national exams already have some preparation, as well as a better preparation for the introduction of state graduation. It is essential to meet both schools and parents and teachers, especially students with a new system of learning success. Schools receive feedback on the success of their students and can compare them with national standards. The school will certainly use the results for self-analysis, self-valuation, definition of development goals and their plans. The evaluation research shows that the evaluation in our school is unstandardized and subjective. External evaluation shall monitor the functioning of systems and individual schools. They are being checked for students of desirable competence and how much agreed standards are being met. Legally, we have told the Law on the National Centre for External Valuation, which was adopted in 2004 and amendments to the Law on secondary education from this year. The external evaluation in Croatian education will be conducted by a national centre registered this year as a public institution, all the conditions for the start of the work of this institution have been created, the administrative council that adopted the statutes as a basic document has been appointed. The National External Assessment Centre is an independent institution. Article 11 of the proposed Institute defines external evaluation operations. The National Centre will report on its work what we were looking for in the adoption of the law, will report to the Government as founder, Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Ministry of Education Affairs. The Statute also provides rules for the protection of the confidentiality of data, the duty of keeping secrets, which is very important, which according to the tasks of the national centre is doing an extremely important thing. Teachers and students are expected to invest more in the quality of their work. The students are also expected to raise motivation for learning and learning, which is more focused on important outcomes and in teachers and teachers to improve the quality of evaluation, to achieve greater objectivity in the monitoring and evaluation of students. Students will begin to adopt a completely different attitude than they have in most cases, to simply say learning because of their grades and to realize that only learning, conscious work and pawning can achieve success in school and in life. Of course, in order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to carry out good preparation, i.e. create conditions that all students have the same opportunity to achieve success as the task and this centre. It is particularly important to say that I also protected the confidentiality of the test material, the quality of the test material, as well as the protection of the confidentiality of the data and the organisation of the examinations, and all of this is within the competence of the centre and is regulated by the statute. On the first draft of the Statutes submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Administrative Council of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education was an objection by the Government, the Administrative Council accepted the Government's proposal to improve the draft statutes, and it will bring the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community into line with the law by proposing to the Croatian Assembly to give its consent to the Statute of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52071	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And finally, the Statute of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. Giving consent. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the Statute of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education by the Administrative Council of the National Centre on 1 December 2005. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 75 for and 2 against, the proposed decision has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52074	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The reason for the reintegration of the proposal for this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Assembly Act on the agenda of today's session of the Assembly was the decision of the Constitutional Court of 23 November 2005, which, following the absence of the required majority of MPs, abolished the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly adopted at the meeting held on 12 July 2005. Since the reasons for the adoption of this law are the same as at a time when it was already voted, i.e. on the Parliament's agenda in July 2005, I believe there is no need for a new and additional explanation, since there are no new reasons or arguments but there are also arguments and reasons that were valid during the original proposal in July 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52075	Thank you. Committees, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system? I'd like the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52076	Mr President-in-Office of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed at its 55th session held on 6 December 2005 the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly, with the final proposal for a law to the President of the Croatian Parliament, etc. The Committee supported the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and does not object to the proposal for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure, as it assesses that it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the Committee supported the reasons of the motions for the adoption of this law because it believes that the proposed legislative measures and additions will contribute to better and effective protection of protected objects and persons and particularly foreign delegations. Therefore, he decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52077	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of LS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go. HSLS and DC.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52078	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. These are always really situations where a man, a politician, can feel ambivalent. On the one hand, we have the feeling that no civil right should be suspended in any way, and yet we must also keep account in certain and certain circumstances that teach us that no freedom is absolute, nor is freedom of public assembly. And we think that we should actually break one of the names that appeared these last days in our media, that the Constitutional Court abolished this law because it was unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court abolished this Law not because of the content that would be incompatible with the Constitution but rather from a simple fact which for this Law, since it is organic, since it determines certain civil and human rights should be voted on by 77 votes. In Parliament, the law did not receive that number of votes. It is irrefutable that this Law determines one of the fundamental political freedoms of citizens, which is the right to gather citizens. That citizens have the right to articulate their own certain, their dissatisfaction and that there must be a space that will allow them to have their dissatisfaction in a democratic, civic way and to articulate. But I'm saying, like we said, no freedom, so neither is this one. And our Constitution does not prescribe in any way how this freedom can be limited but leaves that very thing to be determined by law without endangering freedom itself. So, right now, the law determines the space, it can determine the space where this articulation, or freedom of assembly, is not allowed. I say, the Constitution gives no standard, and then we can apply to Article 11. European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And there we can read, everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful gathering and freedom of association with others, including the right to establish trade unions or join them in order to protect their interests. It's okay. And now there is this paragraph 2 of this Article 11 which reads: "no restrictions can be imposed on the exercise of these rights except those prescribed by law and which are necessary in a democratic society for the interests of the state, state security or public order or peace, or for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morality, or for the protection of the rights and freedom of others". This article does not prohibit the imposition of legal restrictions in the exercise of those rights by members of regulated forces, police or state administration. As is apparent from this, it is obviously true that the interests of national security or public order and peace can exist, I say, and certain restrictions. And what is really now the whole problem that has come up, what this Law actually refers to is the space where the three most significant institutions of the Croatian state are located. It is this Parliament, it is the Croatian government and it is the Constitutional Court. However, on the other hand, there is certainly an emotional relationship to this area which, in some ways, represents this sacred place of Croatian statehood, and now we are, indeed, on one foothold between this fact that these three institutions are on this very small square and small space. And I say, on the other hand, after these recent events in the world, especially after 9/11 2001, that a certain view of this security must certainly be changed. But what is clear and certain must be said, and that is that there is no need to fix only on this space but to actually try to simulate this situation when it is said that this is really a 100-metre circle. That means that if the Constitutional Court were to sit in New Vinodol or, say, Dubrovnik or somewhere else, it would be with the fact that the Constitutional Court is sitting there and that 100 meters. The same goes for the government, the same goes for the Croatian Parliament. So, it's not just about fixation in space, it's about St. Mark's Square, but it's really about the very institutions that are pulling this particular right behind them to be somehow insured. And on the other hand, I say on the other hand, this provision of this Law does not apply in any way to this Upper City but simply refers to this very fact that this space relates to the protection of these three institutions. And exactly, I'm saying, if possibly some civilian pressure groups were to really insist in some way then it might happen, I don't know, if the government were to stay on the Sava so that it would be this very fact that this provision would be attached to that space on Savi or not somewhere else. What seemed to me, in the debate of July 12th of this year, was just that it was this fact state and what some way it was then managed to become both certain representatives and clubs who were against this Law. What seems to me on behalf of the club is very important to say that we, however, it is high time to impose the importance and seriousness of certain institutions in Croatia as well. It seems to me that after the 1990s, there was just a rather nonchalant, differential relationship between these institutions and that nothing really is sacred with us. Reading these days, some texts of the government of Gotovina have actually come across a brilliant thought that says that the most serious people who make fun of us are taking it seriously. And it really seems to me that, in recent times and in the media, the same thing is that we ourselves allow certain institutions to question, i.e. by not knowing, that we are members of Parliament, or of the Government, or of the Constitutional Court or of another institution, that this is, in fact, a sufficient reason for them to be treated really as they please and as they wish. I don't think it's good and that it's just a guarantee of Croatian survival and statehood can really be just our institutions because they're actually permanent, we're transient. And the relationship to the institution does not depend on a particular composition of Parliament or government or I do not know, the Constitutional Court, but on the fact that it is indeed the institutions of the Croatian state called the Croatian Parliament or the Croatian Government or the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. And it seems to me exactly that this aspect of security really needs to be taken into account, the more this very European Convention actually allows. And this Article 11, in particular, I say, this 2nd paragraph, which says that even in democratic societies for the sake of the interest of state security, they can really set certain limits on these fundamental, one of these fundamental civil rights and freedoms, as is the right to gather. Indeed, there is no reason for the decisions of the city councils, the councils, to really determine the places in which they can freely be gathered, in which they are free to articulate their opinions and attitudes. And for these very reasons we will indeed appeal that in the City of Zagreb or any Croatian city there are indeed such places where people will be able to freely articulate their views with certain decisions, certain phenomena in society. Because alone, this does not mean that Croatian democracy will in any way be threatened if people gather and articulate their own political or intrinsic views, on any economic or other issues. But really in line with these good European customs as well as, I don't know, I've been to Budapest recently. Let's say there's a Parliament fenced like this and it really just doesn't suit you no... you can observe in Parliament, i.e. the one who has to enter, and not from demonstrations really in this way, directly as it has been possible for us so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not possible there, but I'm saying it's not Hungary itself, I took an example as a transition country, I don't know in Italy it's the same thing as some of my decent 200-thins, 300-metres that also exist because it doesn't mean that politicians don't have the right to hear what the citizens think, but really I say we have to keep an eye on some of these details, after all, this is the historic place of Croatian statehood, on this side there's this church of St. Marka, a monument of culture belonging to our cultural heritage, or practice, a recent practice cannot be sufficient argument to continue with this,... well to tend to relativize things and to tend to how someone acted at what time, but it simply seems that today's date 8 December is quite a good date to in some way recognise this fact and not the sanctity and untouchability of these institutions, but rather the fact that in some way we, as a policy, must educate citizens and in some way defend the right of these institutions to a smooth work, and as I say behind us, does not mean that this does not result in criticism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I'm concerned about personally, and I'm also against parking near this Parliament and, please? ... Yes, it is one not only ecological but I just think it is not only ecological but also aesthetic consciousness and it is also not the same in this I say, on the side of what it is to say to the Presidency of Parliament that is here every day, but it is really very easy to do it, a certain protocol that we will very precisely. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52079	Comrade Cain, you will keep your speaker's disapproval when you speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52080	So I think that my colleague Cain agrees with me that there is really no point in packing in the immediate vicinity of Parliament, but I am saying that here we are talking about this right to freedom of assembly I also think that here today I hope that the President of Parliament will not blame me for the same word and that we have the right to freely express our opinions and today I think that there has been one good opportunity and a situation to give full support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, first and foremost to Prime Minister Sanader, to what happened to the great mortgage from the Republic of Croatia taken down, to show that those estimates that the general is not hiding in Croatia, that the whole series of lunches have been all guilty, that this will actually enable us to open these more free political relations and this freedom of negotiations, that the great mortgage has been taken down, that we can continue to become a pre-summup of innocence, no one is guilty until it is proved to him. He does not have to prove his innocence, but the court must prove someone's guilt, that good messages have been sent, that indeed no one will be excluded, and that on the one hand this is a great and good opportunity to achieve full solidarity between the opposition and the position in Parliament and those who in some way try to retain their right to their opinion and in such special situations. That is why the HSLS, LS and DC club will support this bill and we think that, but also that we must leave enough for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. leave space where they have the right to demonstrate any satisfaction and dissatisfaction and that in some way no one has the right to have any fundamental human right to political freedom in any way put into question. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52081	Thank you. The HSP club has given up the debate. A SDP club, a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52082	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, today is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. In fact, it is identical to that bill that this Parliament passed almost 5 months ago, but then with an insufficient number of votes and, among other things, the SDP club also filed a constitutional action, and the Constitutional Court recently made a decision that abolished the disputed law because it was voted in a way that there were not enough votes, with the Constitutional Court saying that the law remains in force until 31 March next year. For this reason, in practice and present, or abolished law is still in effect when we voted on the agenda, we had an observation why this Law should go into emergency procedure at all when there is enough reason to pass both first and second reading. In addition, by 31 March of next year, the Constitutional Court decided that the government would enjoy the atmosphere of the coming holidays in a peaceful manner because even as the Constitutional Court decided, no unsatisfactory would spoil the peace of the holidays with its whistles, banners, or perhaps tents and chains. However, despite this unblemished peace, the government has again sent this bill to an emergency procedure identical to that of 5 months ago, even so identical that you did not bother to correct or correct the wrong date, which is inside which we then warned, because the attack on the skyscraper was on September 11, 2001, and not in 2003 as it stood in that proposal, and it is in this proposal. This only leads us to conclude that the government, or the ruling coalition, must have found a sufficient number of votes to vote on this bill. My colleagues and colleagues, as well as for the first time and this time, the SDP club will be against this bill. Last time, we even tried to ease the amendments to this bill. I was then on behalf of the club even in some way trying to understand your efforts to reconcile on the one hand the need for the security of state institutions on the one hand, and on the other hand, of course the right to gather citizens, but you have then smoothly rejected these amendments, this time we do not think of any attempt to fix anything in your proposal. With this proposal today, you again, for the first time, prohibit any gatherings, peaceful protests, showing dissatisfaction with the actions of the primary government within 100 metres of Mark's square, even for those groups that are less than 20 people. Secondly, this proposal gives you peace for your eyes and ears because we realize that it's hard to listen to whistles since you've been on the other side of Mark's square. You're just showing how inconsistencies and unprincipled you are, because I'm asking on behalf of the club what was different in the period, for example. From September 11, 2001, when a terrorist attack occurred in New York until November 23, 2003, because during that period, you were in opposition, and you were in favour of protests and tents and throwing eggs and pâtés, etc., and of those people where the police later found the entire arsenal of weapons. Today, when citizens with lizards would probably come to you under the windows and ask you for their wages, for their rights, for their businesses, for their right to the costs of transport, you explicitly forbid them by this law because these questions do not matter to your ears. And finally, with this bill of law, you're throwing another stain on the democratic face of Croatia with which you like to come forward when you're outside the borders of the state and in front of Europe. You may even be able to sell yourself out, but you can't sell yourself out here anymore. Finally, as far as the SDP Club is concerned, the gain for the security of the institutions is almost nothing. Well, let me just mention that there's recently been a robbery of mail here near the most important institutions of the state under your nose. But that is why you further undermine Croatia's democratic standard, and you are very consistent with that. Unfortunately, the government, that is correct, has received five of the six union leaders for this bill of law. What they got in return will show you the time, it goes to you and to them. The SDP club will not vote for this bill and we announce that if this time it is adopted with a sufficient number of votes, we are announcing a new constitutional suit this time because of the content of the law that we are assessing is limited by the Constitution of certain fundamental human freedoms and the rights of citizens of this country. And in some ways, the government and the ruling coalition join the bill to mark the International Human Rights Day, which is in two days.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52083	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52084	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a colleague once again claimed that if this law prohibits a public gathering, which is completely incorrect. This law regulates a public gathering, so that's it. So do you even know how long it took English democracy to get to Haydn Park, so to reconcile those who express dissatisfaction but others that they can work in peace. And secondly, it wasn't just our mail that got robbed. I guess it's in your best interest that it doesn't happen in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52085	The club of representatives of DC, HSLS, LS respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52086	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I thought we ended this debate this summer about this law, but apparently someone fits to be, like, copying some institutions like China does. Beijing has a square of celestial peace and Zagreb is offered to have "the square of Croatian unrest". Well, I think every responsible man in this country should think in such a way that this square of St. Mark will not be "the square of Croatian unrest". No square in Croatia is disputed, only the disputed square of St. Mark. I don't know who that suits under these circumstances. I'm sorry, we shared that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52087	Wait a minute, buddy. Earlier, Zlatko Kramaric spoke on behalf of the DC Club, HSLS and LS. Unfortunately, it's already been spoken by a representative on behalf of the club, the agreement has not been made and you will report in an individual debate. So pluralism of clubs sometimes leads to situations like this. You see how clever they are of the mind that they appear here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not easy when there are clubs that are created, dissolved, brought in. Dear Representative Damir Caine Club IDS. Well, I know, on behalf of your club, someone else spoke a few days ago. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52088	Mr. President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed gentlemen of the council! Well, in one part of the current topic, Mr Kramaric touched among other things, he was given the opportunity to say something in two, three minutes, so I will use it around General Gotovina and say, indeed, that at this point the government has the support of the opposition. That's what I'm saying. But that the country, as in the case of the indictment against General Bobetka, should have heard the message that the responsibility for Croatia is not only in power but also in opposition, that Croatian democracy is unquestionable, that Croatia is not at risk and that Croatia will not experience any earthquakes. 99th might have been different when we had $10 billion in debt. Today we have 35. And who would get hurt? Those who are the most vulnerable, those who live on welfare, defenders who live off their budgets, the unemployed who live out of help at the Employment Service, pensioners who expect help and so much should help the government of Ivo Sanader and try to change the election of HDZ president. But now he needs help. That's what I was gonna say. Public gathering law. IDS is against this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52089	The theme, Comrade Cain. It's not about changing the Prime Minister or anyone else. It's about sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52090	The law on public gathering or ban, as I call it, protest in Mark's square. It's nothing but a ban on protests in Mark's square. And I think that in some way, in all these unnecessary involvements and representatives of a state that neither requires that prohibition nor needs this prohibition as set out in Article 2(2). The Croatian square of St. Mark is in some way Hayd Park, it has always been and I don't think that its status was a weakness of Croatian democracy, it was precisely a willingness that everyone here near this House, the Croatian Government, the Constitutional Court could express their position or court. I was, for example, deeply solidarity with Sljemen's demands. I am also aware that their problem did not arise in 2005 or 2004, but one thing I would really forbid is camping and overnighting in St. Mark. Never, never would have banned a public gathering. But as far as these nights are concerned, I wouldn't let that happen. As for the public gathering in St. Marka, meaning this cult place of Croatian statehood, democracy approach means it must be free but we here have to agree that these gatherings can be between 9 and 18 or 8 to 17 hours, that they cannot be maintained when, say, receiving some foreign delegations or Thursday's session of the government. And you'd also be willing to talk about it easily. We would be clearly happy to say that there is no education, that our social map is about the same as Austria or Sweden but we will have to wait on it. The way the people live sometimes is best seen right here in St. John's Square. Mark. By the way, if we are already concerned about the security of foreign delegations, which is absolutely logical, I am holding that "vis avis" of the country would be equally logical that from the budget of the city of Zagreb or the state of Croatia this Mesnička ulica, the street down here Čirila and Methoda, because they are a disgrace to the city of Zagreb, and hence the state of Croatia. When a stranger comes to the government or to the Parliament to see Mr. Seks, he sees those streets, and then it's clear to him what kind of country he's in, that it's a poor little country.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52091	I'm doing... The streets, not the team. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm good at the streets, not the team.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52092	Okay. I'm coming down these streets. Because if someone doesn't, I say the same thing, to the institutions they won't even hold to the ground. And as he sticks to, say, foreign policy, maybe seven days ago, he showed us the best Kacin in that show at Stankovic's "Sunday at 2". I also believe that in Croatia there is complete destruction of institutions. Often and from part of state media that are in a more privileged position both from ministers and from MPs, and if we do not change this relationship to institutions, this country has no chance of starting. I'm clear absolutely to the independence of the media. They have to be a matchmaker in society. We're not sacred cows, but the Parliament needs to preserve its dignity, too, because if that's not the case, if we run out of power, I'm talking about an institution right now. The opposition has never had it anyway, the same means power will be concentrated exclusively in large-scale media capital, executive power, and above that should be imagined by those working in the media themselves. Let me get back to this topic. But let's get those facades in order one more time. Let's get them settled up. In the past in St. Mark’s Square, there was a whole series of protests and gatherings and nothing was wrong with anyone. And there's so much IDS against this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52093	Nothing unfortunately happened to anyone?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52094	Fortunately, fortunately. Come on, nothing bad happened to anyone. Let's say some gatherings on that you reminded me now organized by the government itself. Consider, for example, the 1997 convention of defenders at which Mr. Sušak, the late minister spoke. Let's remember the gathering of workers of Belje, PIC Vrbovac, and then there were workers of the First Maiden from Rasha. So there were gatherings of support for Norc. Let's remember the meetings of fired officers, the pyrotechnicist Mungos, and finally the worker Sljemen again. The inauguration of the president of the country is clearly taking place in this market. Foreign delegations are coming, but that's still no reason for us to ban these protests. The truth of the former opposition, which is who you are today in power, you've supported, say, protests by these officers, you applauded as Mrs. Sobol says, shooting those officers with the rotten eggs of the former prime minister. The current opposition clearly supports protests against this government and it will not be possible to change that, but we can agree that in this cult place Croatian democracy does not deny protests but that this camping is banned from the other side. And clearly, from the moment foreign delegations arrive, if they so require, they also rule out the possibility of protests as well as the moments when the entire government is sitting here. If anyone wants to protest, for example, I do not know against the arrival of Bush, today against Carla Del Ponte and so on, then let them do so in Zagreb. It's not a question. But not in St. Mark's Square. Let's say it's down here on Radic Street. As for individual demonstrations, when individuals protest there is also no reason to drive these people out of St. Mark's Square, it is already necessary to understand that it is the desperates who chose the last way to draw attention to their unfortunate fate. I'll make it clear one more time. If foreign delegations come, you need to ask people not to interfere with protocol functions, but the square I think cannot be usurped by law enforcement authorities. I'm also so forbidden to protest, let's say, in front of diplomatic missions. Or embassies. Clearly, no one can be threatened physically, but the protest has always been a way of speaking politically. It means I'm back to the point. Protesting yes, camping no. And if we need someone to be an example of what it looks like, then let's say it could be a land of primal democracy, like the United States. Clearly, I don't think the workers of the Sljemen camped. Let me fence myself from it right away. They fought in this way for their rights and I supported them, but I thought that if someone wanted to decide to do so, they had to do so in another square. I'm talking about camping. The effect is always the same, even though we are aware of those people's who are closer to the fire, that they are clearly better heated. All in all, I think this law is an acronism. It can end up being the paradigm of a government that pretends to not know what the problems in this society are. This law will eventually become a place of mockery with power, and that should not happen. And that's why you really think about it. A protest, yes, a sleepover. There's one clear problem. These are protests on public roads, on roads or in front of borders. border crossings. I'm absolutely against closing border crossings especially in the season, I'm against road closures, but I also keep it legitimate, for example, when truckers from Istria were 4.6 of them 174 in some way not blocked but slowed down the protest on Y because what was happening to them there wasn't normal until then. Lastly, I think the biggest culprit for banning protests is the unions. That's what I'm gonna say. I'm gonna do it again. The biggest culprit is unions. They sold workers' rights to represent the union membership fee. And I think that's the point. And that's what I'm willing to say. Just imagine how unique they were about that case. I can't agree on a week's work, even though I think it's an absurd Sunday if it happens to us. However, in this particular case, trade unions were very unique with the government. I'm going to say one more time, I don't think we should ban Sunday's work, because it's going to lead to the collapse of thousands and thousands of small merchants, especially if you ban them from working in the season, but I'm also going to say that the budget doesn't fill either the church or the unions, but it's being filled by these little merchants and these others are spending budget money as well as some other institutions. So, Mr. President, as you should let the merchants work, as you should let the workers protest, i.e. Citizens to protest in this market of St. Mark so I don't think there's any need for this law to be adopted in this House, although I am that, once again, I will ban the protest of nights, camping and banning protests when foreign delegations arrive or when the government is sitting on Thursday. [[Intruder: Public gathering, not working on Sunday topics.]] So elsewhere in the world, so be it in Croatia, but let St. Mark's Square remain a place in the future, a sacred place of Croatian Parliamentism, Croatian statehood and that one way of expression in which anyone can simply express or not express agreement with the moves of the Croatian government or any other institution. I think it's a minimum of what this government must insist on and what it can and must provide to its own under quotes "subsidists".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52095	So be it. Only what the Fairy Alliance and the campers' associations will do if they do. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52096	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the first false quote from fellow Cain is that in this square, Mark's square, no one was killed. At a grand gathering, Mattia Loser was killed as far as we know. But there's something else I wanted to say. Mr. Caine says state media contributes, inputs I don't know about unrest, confusion, things like that. The state media, Mr. Cain, provides here a hand of reconciliation, respecting the Council's consistent decision on electronic media to give any false information, for example. you can be denied on the show in which it has been published, so we expect you to be in the journal at least half of the journals, you, every journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52097	Okay. Mattia Loser wasn't the victim. It was a forced public gathering. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52098	Mr. President, it's in vain to correct everything a colleague has said, so I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52099	It's a waste of your time. And the esteemed representative of Dragutin's vulture, the same correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must correct my colleague Cain's claim that the unions were unique in support of this bill. Probably because of the high concern and state of the facades in Mesnica, he did not notice that there were trade unions and those who did not agree to this bill and in the first procedure of its adoption, which was possible for counterpart Cain to inform himself that he had read the newspaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52101	If the facades that are in pretty bad shape can crash, then that only speaks for itself, except for fixing the facades. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, Club of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, in connection with this urgent procedure of the law that came before us again, the first two dilemmas. Is the majority in this House 76 or 77 votes? Obviously still low in the clear, which means most of the total number of MPs. Because if we knew that, we'd be voting on this bill if 76 weren't the same as 77. So maybe we should do it again. Secondly, is this law organic or not? The Constitutional Court decided it was an organic law. This is not the first dispute on whether some of the proposed laws are in the so-called so-called. The category of organic or non-organic, and in order to avoid possible disputes, conflicts and polemics in the future, might be that at the time when the President of the Parliament directs a single bill before us, except that we specifically mark the law of the European Parliament with the P.Z.E. It is already noted in that submission that it is an organic law, i.e. the proposal for a law which applies most of all MPs. And then in the later procedure, there's no longer any slowness. As soon as it comes to organic law, there's no doubt whether it's 76 or 77, and then the Constitutional Court would have had less to do, and even fewer disputes would have. If that's possible, I'd like to do it that way. By the very content of the law, this is the law that Turns Gornji City into Forbidden City and I believe that the City of Zagreb Tourist Board will place in the offer of foreign tourists a visit to the Forbidden City, which is open only to foreign tourists, as is the reputation of the Chinese tourist offer. They also have the Forbidden City and they charge tickets there and they're doing well. It is indisputable that every public gathering, just in support of the government, or that it wants to perform, say, some of the popular actresses or singers, or pantomimeists or anyone else, in Mark's square is no longer possible. Croatian citizens if there are more than 20 of them, and they are reading newspapers in Upper Town, there is a valid reason for the police to record their personal data and to decide whether it is a public gathering or not. But if foreign tourists in a group of 40 visit Mark's square, they stay here for 2, 3 hours, I don't think anyone on duty at the M.O.P.'s gonna ask the officers to sign them up. A colleague Kramaric also mentioned the experiences of Budapest, so he called on us to do the same. It is a good example, because they have a good tradition when Janush when he introduced the practice that Hungarians must not even smell the parliamentary building, let alone enter it. And I would not accept that we are handling Budapest but perhaps those where foreign tourists can enter Parliament, or could enter, without great procedures, not that their national parliament can only look at from a decent distance. And to make sure they won't be subject to surveillance. What is the purpose of this law? This law also speaks of a public gathering which is not or does not necessarily have to be a protest. A public gathering is not only when someone is protesting disagreements with someone or something but is when they can express their social, political, religious views and all that is quoted in the law. So, we forbid every public gathering 100 metres from Mark's square, and in our debates and outwittings, we only talk about protests. So I remind you that this law treats not only protests but public gatherings. The government says no gatherings in Mark's square, and I want to believe that it does not really refer to foreign tourists, for example. However, is this law generally necessary? I don't think so. And that was proven a few months ago because there are far more effective methods of banning gatherings on Mark's square. In a wide range of these possibilities is archaeological excavations. And I think this problem of Mark's square is extremely well solved by archaeological research. The fences were erected, they started digging into Mark's square if they wanted to, they couldn't, and they don't need the police to stop the protests at Mark's square. There's probably another way, except for archaeological excavations. I just hear there's been a lot of dispute whose idea was to open archaeological works. I won't judge, but whoever remembered before the law was passed has brilliantly solved the problem of any whistle, siren, pleasure and dissatisfaction in Mark's square. And because of that, I really don't think this law should be forced because as long as these excavations are completed, before, the elections of parliament's new parliament will be so that the application of the law will not be necessary objectively. And I end up with the next one, says counterpart Caine that he's for public protests, and gatherings are a broader concept, but not for camping and overnight. That he deeply supported the workers of the "Slemen" but he's against nights and camping. You know, when someone asks for something, they will, when they protest then the use of different kinds of pressure has different effects. So if the workers of the Slemen came here when we were on lunch break or when the government didn't sit, believe me, it wouldn't be the problem of the Slemen solved the way it is. And I was just their act that they persisted here for 24 hours 36-37 days was the use of one of the most brilliant pressure methods and the very purpose why they came here. And now to say that you are for them to protest but not as they wish, is hypocritical. If we're in favour of freedom of gathering and protest being the thing of the organization and the citizens we allow it to be, then the selection of who we are and who we're not exactly the end of. This would be the same if we were trying to ban any public gathering on the street or square in front of the city's headship in Pula and to prevent in advance the possibility of protesting the strange results of city elections in the city of Pula which will probably be the subject of the talks only which, the times to come. That's why we're not going to support this bill this time. I hope this time it won't be disputed whether it's organic or not and whether most of it's 77 or 76, but I say when it's brought in it won't have to apply because these methods of action are far more effective than the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52103	Thank you. We only have nine corrections of incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Lesar, Gornji Grad was not a forbidden city, there was once a forbidden city, and Petrinja, Đordićeva, Zrinjevac 7 were a free zone for Croatian patriots, and you well know what time it was. I can't listen to you anymore, that's the worst.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52105	Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52106	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Lesar made an incorrect and somewhat unconstitutional claim asking the Government to determine in the proposal which law is organic within the meaning of Article 82. The constitution, he asked the government for what the Constitution does not have. So the government could manipulate the assessment of what is organic and what is not organic law. The Constitution reserves this right only for the Croatian Parliament when voting, when deciding on the law and the Constitutional Court after deciding on the law. Therefore, it is not possible for the government to assess which law...... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Read the stenogram and you will be corrected. ... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Neither can the President of the Parliament, nor can the Parliament. The President of the Parliament is just the president, not the Parliament. ... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52107	Okay. In the case of the signature and the labelling of the bill whether the law is organic or not organic or other, the Constitutional Court has, on several occasions, resolved what is an organic law. One interpretation of the Constitution may, when the Constitution says in that mentioned Article 82, that organic laws all those laws which are governed by the Constitution of the freedoms and rights of man and citizen other than the electoral judiciary and others may take the view that each law lays down certain rights and freedoms of man and citizen and I cannot assume that responsibility, and the Constitutional Court has taken a position in several of its decisions and judgments which are under the Constitution of established rights and freedoms of man and of citizens when they are elaborated, where these are organic laws, and in which other rights and freedoms of man are not organic laws. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52108	I must admit I never mentioned Janos Kadar at all and how much I know Janoš When he was never the President of the Hungarian Parliament, so bringing in any way in connection with my interpretation that I do not know myself in some transition countries works and in the interpretation of his colleagues Lesar there is one really great discrimination. But already when he pulled my tongue like this, then we really have to ask him, he's like a respected union leader, how long until he was 90 he dared to make a public protest, say, in St. Maraca or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52109	You are right about this first part of the correction of the incorrect allegations, Janos When he was not the President of Parliament, and this second part was... Yeah, that's it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. ... That inquiry you've sent to counsel Lesar, I mean a representative can't ask a question, but that's a rhetorical question. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52110	Thank you, Mr. President. We had a chance to see that Mr. Lesar spoke to a unionist in the front row after all. But I'd like to correct that part of his exposure where he criticized protests and camping. Well, I think, Mr. Lesar, that at night, he wasn't a parliamentary representative here or the government or that it made any sense and for the sake of the dignity of the protesters themselves. I'm sure it can be protested all day, but I really don't think night protests have to be. And so far, the police have had mechanisms to prevent protests, we know that all protests over 20 people have to report to the police and that they have had the possibility of banning. It means this law is too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52111	Thank you. Honorable representative Valter Poropat, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52112	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting the quote of the esteemed representative of Lesar from whose exposure could be determined that Cain is against the protests in Mark's square. Mr. Lesar, Cain is not against protests in Mark's square.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52113	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52114	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Lesar, I think it's absolutely not true that this fence on Mark's square was erected for archaeological excavations. I think it's actually a place where one day legally elected representatives in the Croatian Parliament could find a place of refuge in front of the attacks of hypocritical journalists and trade unions that you're carrying out, you're taking the lead in the performances of your modesty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52115	Honorable representative Ljubica Lalic, club representative of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52116	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a new proposal, which is only slightly different from the previous one, after the Constitutional Court abolished the Law on Public Assembly for procedural reasons. It's in the part where cultural values are excluded. What does this law mean? Simplifiedly speaking, it means ban, protest, procession, and other similar public gatherings, the organisation at the top of public expression of thought or the achievement of political interests of citizens. As the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia recognises all citizens the right to a public gathering and a peaceful protest, it guarantees freedom of opinion and expression of thought, with freedom of expression of thought involving, in particular, freedom of speech and public appearance. Of course, the law could not say no to a public gathering, and that is why it did so to the limitations. This restriction is reflected in a provision of at least 100 metres from the facilities in which the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Government and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia are located or held. Of course the government denies it's a ban, but it's true. It must not be sat in front of the eyes and ears of the Government and the people's representatives, fellow representatives and that is us. An explanation for security reasons. People’s representatives should not be afraid of the people even when the people have objections to their work and when they are dissatisfied with their work. A representative in the Parliament doesn't perform on his own behalf. It is his duty to represent the views of the voters who voted for him. It happens that during the term of office, MPs step down from those positions that represented in the pre-election promotion. They cannot and must not be untouchable until the next election. If they are not reached by a variety of letters, if individual suggestions and remarks are not followed, then it must be possible for citizens to express their opinion in an organised manner and to realise their political interest. Not even in the cover of security, they must not be prevented from doing so, so where will the most effective and loudest express their opinion? Well, of course, where they are heard, where they hear those who need to hear, and that is the Croatian Parliament and that is the Croatian Government. Why be afraid of the voice of the people? Some of us were sitting in this House when protesters under the window were giving us calls to go out to be tried. At that time, though, those who for security reasons are moving away from St. Mark’s Square were then instigating a protest, on baseless accusations that resulted in an inciting hatred. We were accused of national treason because of co-operation with the Hague court, and then the government gave no one up. When the new government was doing it quickly, there was no protest. Strange, but true. And today, when there's no cry for "suspectors come out to be tried" but there's "enable us to realize the right to pay, let us work" now these protesters have become undesirable, even dangerous. Today, they are removed far from the eyes and ears of those who are obliged to make political decisions that would remove the causes of the need for protests. We do not doubt that by the will of the parliamentary majority this law will be passed, the possibility of public expression of dissatisfaction will be removed, but dissatisfaction will remain. It would be politically wise, and it would be useful for both the government and the Parliament to start thinking about the reasons for dissatisfaction and the need to express this dissatisfaction. Of course, there is no reason for the satisfaction of our 300 thousand working citizens who are not allowed to consume the constitutional right to work. They were promised to launch Croatia, which gave them hope that work would be available to them as well. Consuming the right to work is the best way to restore dignity to man as the greatest value of human society. Unfortunately, the promise remained only at the promise level, which is why we deny them the right to remind those who made the promise that they had given them confidence based on the promises they had now forgotten. We will launch Croatia was a promise to those who at the time worked to make their safety, who at the time worked that their safety would not turn into uncertainty and job termination. Unfortunately, recent workers remain without the right to work, and now this law prevents them from warning the government and the parliament of incorrect policies that leave them out of work. The workers come to Mark's square to ask that the employer pay them their wages. The government says some demands from the employer. Well, they did, but the employer was deaf. Even more so, while paying their wages, he didn't pay their contributions. It would be normal for them, as in all the rule of law, to seek the exercise of their rights before competent courts. They have the right to do so with us, but because of the situation in the judiciary, they will wait for years for a court sentence and then it will be only a right that will not be realised because there will be no capital society and no employer. If the state government did not create mechanisms to protect them from the employer's will, if it did not establish an effective and up-to-date judgmental authority, then to whom others will express their demands and their dissatisfaction. No one else but the Croatian executive and legislative authority who tells them this law "that you have the right to express your dissatisfaction with us and our work, but only where we don't hear it". We can fool ourselves as much as we want, but not as long as we want, but in our people, there is growing bitterness over the corruption of society. There is almost nothing that can be realized by regular and normal means. It is claimed that it is not possible to enroll children on a regular basis in high school, let alone college. It is claimed that normal means cannot be realised even by health insurance and health care rights. It's about resolving the law before the state administration authorities not to speak in the first place. So who's obliged to suppress and root out corruption in society. Of course, state power. Who do citizens have the right to present their demands for the control of corruption? Well, of course, before the legislative and executive authority of the Republic of Croatia. And they say by this law, yes, you're right, but only where we don't hear it. The restriction is manifested not only in at least 100 metres from the Parliament and the Government but the law says that an authorised official of the Ministry of the Interior can prevent, or end a peaceful gathering and public protest if there is a real and direct danger to the health of participants and other persons. Simplifiedly, the interior minister can ban any protest where, on its own or on someone's orders, he will assess that there is a real and direct danger to the health of participants and other persons. Such powers do not belong to the democratic society in which we are classifying ourselves and allegedly want to belong. I remember a statement from one of our colleagues who said that this law introduces a police state that he opposes. I don't know if he's still against it, but we at the club of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party were opposed then, and we are opposed today. Under the Convention for the Protection of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Protocols of the Council of Europe, there cannot be any restrictions on the exercise of the right to freedom of peaceful gathering and freedom of association with others other than those prescribed by law, but not on any one but those which are necessary in a democratic society for the sake of the interest of national security. Such restrictions, which actually mean impediments, are not necessary in a democratic society for the sake of the interest of state security. There were also protected persons at the time of the 2001 protest, but they were not banned, even more encouraged by those who now prohibit them. You can ban the expression of dissatisfaction with certain segments of our society, but the dissatisfaction exists and remains, so the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party cannot and will not support the proposed Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52117	Thank you. At 17 and 10, it was time for a single debate on this agenda point. SDSS representative club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52118	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If St. Mark's Square were the last place to defend democracy in Croatia, I do not believe that there would be any representative or representative in this House who would allow democracy not to defend itself, but colleagues and colleagues regardless of the differences in this possible story, and I will also remind myself of some differences in the time when the law was being prepared, this place is certainly not the only place, and it is not the last. It is not the only one to defend, it is not the only one to strengthen democracy and it is absolutely certain that we here should not contribute to the fetish of our policies and roles, our role in this fetish, such as some colleagues and colleagues here have looked back on it. If this city space were different, that by any chance the government or parliament buildings were in some other place, more accessible, more spatially organised, it is quite certain that no one could move in any way the question of the possibility of organising protests at some distance, whether against representatives of the government, government or parliament, is quite certain, but unfortunately it is not so and it will not be so until the government building is moved to a suitable and suitable place, and in that sense I am truly not sure that this is the right place after all that we prove our democratic commitment. If we can't prove it in the last place in Croatia, if we can't hear the voice of those who are poor in Croatia, destitute and whose rights are being questioned but we need to hear them here in front of our own window, then we better not sit behind those windows. If we are not in a position to visit all these people and see and hear how they live, but wait for them to come to Mark's square to listen to them, then of course we better not sit and wait in Mark's square for anyone. So if we are not able to be in daily trouble with the representatives of the people we represent, then let us not call upon that opportunity when the people come to us to share his troubles and his misfortunes and hear what he actually has to tell us. That this is the time of the mentioned Gobec, that there is no far-sighted woman and I don't know what else to do and that people can't come in other ways to express their views, dissatisfaction and criticism, then I would understand that this is a key place to hear the voice and defend the voice of the people, but this once again actually makes a fetish institution, and it's not fair to those we call upon in their troubles and in their misfortune. It's not fair, and it's not realistic to offer them what we can't offer them, which is to come to this place in the number in which many would like to gather together and tell them what they think of us or what they think of the government. And now allow me two words about something that is still a matter of political consistency, and even when it goes to its own harm, even then. Some of us participated in the preparatory talks on this Law after some elements had already been agreed and then we were told that agreement had been reached between the former government's representatives and the current government's representatives. We, I'm sorry, we were listening, of course, and we wanted to hear what arguments were made in favour of it. The arguments were different from the eggs and further, we expressed different degrees of skepticism in terms of what extent it was necessary to limit it, and everyone knew and all agreed that some kind of restriction should be introduced. Some more radical, some less radical. So here we've heard that some in the meantime have decided to position themselves differently, which is, of course, acceptable in politics and imagined, but I'm going back to the first part of my exposure. It is neither an opportunity nor a place to prove the extent to which we are attached to the troubles of the people, and to what extent we are ready to be with the people at the moment when they express their dissatisfaction, about how we lead them, how we lead them, and how we represent them. We notice we defend in every place in the country, we defend in every possible public media and real state in the country, the right to see how we live, and that people can say that we live, but we don't make a fetish out of place and ourselves because we're going to get the same situation that we got with these somewhat privileged thousands or I don't know how many 2,000 for not knowing what kind of needs we have in the supplement. In that sense, I really don't think that this is a key and real issue of defending what is fundamentally right, and this is the right to gather and to protest, but let's create assumptions that this is really possible in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52119	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52120	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Pupovac has claimed that the bill is neither a place nor an opportunity for us to express ourselves as much as we are for democracy. It's completely incorrect. That's what he said literally. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, colleagues and colleagues, the bill prohibits a peaceful gathering, even in Katarina's square. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's a principled question. Even in front of Palain, it is not possible to organise a peaceful, peaceful gathering, even if they pray to God to give the government the wisdom to let a citizen say what he wants, not even allowed. If that's not the right way of defence, no matter what we think, whether we keep going to the citizens to meet and hear what they think, but the citizens are asking to come here and say they're unhappy with us and with the government, and we would ban it from them in a peaceful way, organised and calmly, even saying that I'm just saying they're wearing prayeraries to enlighten the government's brains and wisdom that they can hand it over to them. He can't do that either. So let's not beg. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52121	Thank you very much. My colleague Leko, Pupovac, said, I followed very closely that this isn't the only place. He didn't say this wasn't the place. The difference is very important. And it's not the only place. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's from Pupovac's representative. So he didn't say it wasn't the place. And the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52122	The same, with perhaps a more correct quote. Same correction. So, fellow Pupovac that this is not the only place or time to identify ourselves with the sufferings of citizens, that's what the formulation said. It's a fellow Pupovac. This is the only time because that's exactly what we're discussing. And this is the only place because this is the Croatian Parliament where laws are passed, across the street is the Croatian government that makes decisions on the fate of citizens. Where to protest, in Maksimir, in the Zoo, where it's here in front of the government and in front of the Parliament. With all due respect and all due respect for your coalition position and the need to justify why you will probably vote for this bill, this quote is completely incorrect to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52123	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52124	Mr. President, I think the draft law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia may be satisfied with the Constitutional Court's decision because the law is returned for procedural and not essential reasons. Indeed, not only is the law not contrary to the Croatian Constitution but it is not contrary to the Council of Europe Convention because all restrictions on freedom of gathering, protesting and supporting limits on the principles of national security, public order and peace, the prevention of riots or crimes, the protection of health, the protection of morals and the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. Despite the fact that this is almost normative and international legal perfect law, I will certainly be against that law. The reasons are principled. I'm very happy that my SDP colleagues are protesting against this law. It is obvious that democracy is developing in Croatia because indeed 15 days ago, the party's president reached the presidency of the Assembly of Consensus and supported the bill at the time and now, as far as I can see, there are intellectual offers against the content of that same law, which is only good for democracy. And it is good that for the freedom of gathering, protesting is fought precisely by a party that practically for 50 years has maintained the psychosis of verbal delicacies and because of one sentence of an interview not to put people in prisons and thus enriched even Croatian publicist when it comes to the president of this House Vladimir Seks, who wrote a beautiful book about his peer experiences. So, what comments would I make in relation to this particular law? The first is about the title. This should be the Law on public gathering, protesting and public support. We keep thinking negatively, but in the bright future we will face positive processes that will express support for some projects, advocate women's rights, children's rights, etc. And that should be supported. In the definition of peaceful gathering, I think this is Article 4, it should be said that under peaceful gathering and public protest, every organized gathering of more than 20 unarmed people involves. This element of non-armament is present in over 80% of Croatian countries and it has a substance value. And for that reason, it should certainly be included because then it provides public order authorities with great opportunities for people who come with weapons to be excluded from such events. As far as Article 11 from which the ban on gathering in front of cultural monuments and cultural institutions is concerned, I think the seventh or eighth is so defined as to give today's legitimacy to the revolution's balvana. For example, a gathering on highways and highways could be prohibited and a rebel group of workers, peasants, ethnic communities could be allowed to block not highways. When it comes to the institutions themselves, it is really unnecessary to protect the Office of the President of the Republic, which is "the tower of elephants", to which it cannot be crossed at all, it is a reprotected institution. The Constitutional Court, the Parliament and the Government are not protected by the Supreme Court, which is also the Supreme Court of the Legislative Authority. So there are several conceptual but even more fundamental problems. And now something about the essence of which I will vote against this law. Because Croatian protesters are the best protesters in the world. If an analysis of the protest was made in Croatia since 52nd year, when Zvonimir Markovic ended up in the dungeon until today, and especially in the Upper City, none of the protesters had ever threatened the threat. The threat threatens terrorists, bombers, individuals and various other institutions. So, I am against doing this not because this law would be contrary to the Croatian Constitution, it is not, not because it would be contrary to international conventions of the European and those of the United Nations, but because it is contrary to sound logic and common sense and to Croatian tradition. If you forbid the only thing you'll achieve is resistance. Everything forbidden in Croatia has a contrast. Therefore, if you allow, if you call for coffee, you will have less effect than if you say 100 meters. People will have some kind of challenge. You remember what it looked like here at night until we introduced a system of scribbles of parliamentary issues. Night and night, people used to spend it in the halls, fight like it was a matter of life and death. You can't get 20 people to ask questions today. Therefore, if you allow this to happen easily. And I'll end up with an anecdote from Bratislava. We were in Bratislava and what fascinates those wonderful people, and people who were there can testify about it. There's Professor Turic's colleague, Florian Boras, and our esteemed president. There was practically no security there. That dear world I met in the central square in front of their national theater called the National Divadlo, our prime minister and their prime minister. They were among the ordinary world. We still have a system of inherited war protection of government officials, and this needs serious consideration. I am pleased that our prime minister made a statement yesterday that unserious claims about the threat to him are personal and Croatian governments. Intelligence, security, police are often overestimated by security threats. There is no such thing in Croatia. And there's to be something optimistic about this brief association with our dear Prime Minister and Prime Minister of the Slovak country we've discussed this friendly relationship, some experiences, and I wanted to establish some kind of balance. Since our prime minister is too tall, and the Slovaks are too low, I've achieved some balance, so I picked up a beautiful kid off the road and I asked the Slovak prime minister to put the baby on his shoulders. And he was very happy and that picture went to Slovak media. So I'm closing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52125	And that was his baby, wasn't it, Slavene?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52126	It's not his. It's from his secretary child, a beautiful child. And if it was his about that then. So democracy in Croatia is progressing with huge steps and I am pleased that there will be SDP gentlemen on my side this time. I'm going to be energetic against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52127	The ways of the Lord are strange. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52128	I thought you guys went to Bratislava to cheer for our tennis players, not to catch kids. But good. The esteemed representative Letica says he is surprised by the SDP discussions he is having, which are heading towards the adoption of this bill because an agreement by the SDP has been reached at the Assembly's presidency on the adoption of this law. It's just not true. The SDP has shown its readiness to participate in repairing the i.e. The liberalisation of this bill that would allow certain types of gathering but that by the government is not accepted and it is clear that this bill is unacceptable for us and we are glad that our colleague Letica will finally be on our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52129	I've been to that Parliament presidency, so I've got someone, I can't comment, but some consensus has been reached from which it later gave up. And respected representative Marin Jurjevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52130	It's not the exact quote... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52131	And he, uh, he asked that, uh, he asked for it, and he didn't come around to catch kids because it wasn't. ... Let's make it right, yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52132	... abused the institution of correction of the wrong allegation and respected co-worker Pupovac and co-worker Piplić, and you, too, president, because you know that an interpartial consensus within the presidency has been reached. [[The speaker is turned on later.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52133	Interparliamentary. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52134	It is not true that fellow Letica that the SDP, which was eventually formed in 1990, has ever persecuted anyone for verbal delinquency. If my colleague Letica thinks of the Union of Communists of Croatia, then you are a colleague of Letica who has been a member of the Croatian Communist Union longer than many who sit here. And of which the good part was never a member. And besides being a participant at the last convention in SKH in 1989 in Zagreb, it would be good if you were brave then to speak at the convention about the things you should have talked about, what you should have talked about. And your courage has grown suddenly here lately, I think. When you were a member of the SKH, you could do it bravely to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52135	It's a mixed identity. I wasn't at the party congress, I was at the Admiral Saint Letica. And he's been in the game a long time. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] So there are some things mixed up in your head.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52136	Okay. I recommend my book Verbal Delicate. I recommend my book Verbal Delicate, the fourth edition comes out almost Yeah. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52137	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is as is known and as already on behalf of the Club several times mentioned the Constitutional Court has abolished a law which today almost entirely identical. We're arguing because it wasn't brought to the necessary majority. However, the reasons for this decision show why the Constitutional Court holds that it is precisely an organic law which requires the number of MPs to be 77. It is just explaining its position on the legal nature of the law that the applicant, as the applicants themselves, has pointed out, and the Constitutional Court also accepts, that the article states, as in Article 42. The Constitution states that each person is entitled to a public gathering, a peaceful protest and, in accordance with the law, to such a right. That political doctrines are part of the Corps of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms. So, from the reasons itself, the norm itself, the form that was needed, and which is still necessary, of course, for these kinds of laws, speaks and points to the content itself. And that is why it is unacceptable for the government to file an identical law of identical content in the parliamentary procedure. What seems important to me to point out right at the beginning is that, with this kind of legal proposal, the government actually shows and proves to me that there is a great gap between official official policy and the needs and interests of citizens on the other hand. Why is that? It is hard to understand that the government that is declared, which wants to be largely democratic, has not realised that democracy is communication. That protesters armed with transparency are not terrorists. That civil initiatives and civic actions are not a danger. They're no danger to this government. They're not terrorism. And I would agree with those who said that the Upper City is not and must not be a forbidden city. The Upper City must not be a place of political discretion, it must not be taken away from democracy and civil freedoms. This is how the government sends a message that it fears its own citizens, that it fears its own citizens, that it only needs you and such citizens when it is time for the elections and when it wants to deceive and kidnap them. Since independent Croatia, there has been protests here in Mark's square but there have never been any special incidents unless we ignore here the mention of throwing eggs and yogurt at former Prime Minister Ivica Racan. What happened then, yes, yes, and our colleague Slavko Linic. Which was then welcomed by the opposition with great and undeniable sympathy. However, it is a fundamental constitutional law, and we can conclude as a whole that there has never been anything in Mark's square from the obstetrics, from the whim, that there has never been a full stomach. Both this law and this proposal, if passed as a law, is a brutal blow to democracy, as well as to Croatian unionism as its important accompanying phenomenon. Many, many union leaders and so did the leader of the Croatian school union "Renaissance" who literally stated: "We are not prepared to replace the basic democratic gains for small material benefits.". True, it should be confirmed that not all union leaders have done so. And that is precisely what may have been the occasion for the leader of the Croatian school union "Rebirth" to come out like this. The members of the government simply don't have, and not only the members of the government, but we also have no right to personal peace here until the workers have it. And they were forced simply to protest. And so the government is now closing Mark's square instead of its Open Door program. So that's one great quantum leap. The government has to understand that it exists because of people. This government obviously does not want to see or hear dissatisfied people. Their presence only disrupts her beautiful picture with the most characteristic motive on the Zagreb postcards. So the government that advertises the open door closes Mark's square and would be so virtually only open in showing its own picture of itself. Let's just remember the images that went around the world of the one before the law was passed, so before the year 2000, that's the boy of the protesters and the specials. Do we want to send such a picture from Croatia to the world? The fundamental human right is to gather and protest. The law only limits those rights when protecting other people's freedoms and rights, as well as legal order, public morality and health. That's what the Constitution says, and that's what the government needs to know. Each restriction shall be proportionate to the nature and need of a restriction in each individual and specific case. The constitution is clear here. Any restrictions must be prescribed very, very specific. After all, the existing law says that there is no protest in the vicinity of hospitals, schools, or kindergartens. Does the government want to protect it, as well as to join protected kindergartens? With kindergartens working a lot longer. This existing law, or one that was passed before the one that was abolished, and unfortunately still in force, is very liberal, modern. It is in line with the European Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and in 1999, following the fierce pressures of the international community. And after the intervention, let's remember and then the Constitutional Court in earlier law. And the most obvious example is to play the right of citizens to a free gathering, that conclusion of the Zagreb City Administration before 2000 on the ban on gathering in Ban Jelačić Square. Therefore, the Zagreb conclusion of the then Zagreb authorities was lifted by the Constitutional Court. There, the government justifies itself by God's fear of terrorism. But it's certainly just a cover. We see here that Protestants have never been terrorists, that it's easy to control them. Unfortunately, the government should deal with armed robbers who here in broad daylight, along with all possible guards and guards, rob them uninterrupted. And as the police have decided to kill such people, not bring them to justice, there is a question and a threat to all of us, including well-intentioned tourists. What's the government doing? The government is clearly training the strictness of those weak, those rejected. This is where I hear jam and disdain. Of course, I feel sorry for having to remind you of that, but you only remember these free protests and what was then spoken freely in Croatia until 2003. Let's just remember the Split Riviera, let's just remember what HDZ President Ivo Sanader said at a protest in Split that Split is entering Croatian history and that nothing can be the same anymore. I quote: "In Croatia there are now two concepts, a Split Riviera and a handful that won power on January 3rd, which was an obvious misunderstanding. We are telling Racan and Mesic that we are not traitors, but traitors are those who retired Croatian generals, and now they are arrested, who led and won the Homeland War.". There was also a different iconography, and the following contents were written: "The jihad red rats took a raid of the carriage operated by Carla del Ponte, and the wolf is Mesic and Racan", then "Know Croatian people, you can't betray all Croatian people", then "Arise Zagreb crow calls you. Judge traitors, not heroes. Holy war don't touch.", "Go, comrade.", addressed to President Mesic, not to mention all the terrible insults that are not being shown, which were addressed to then Prime Minister Racan and the president of the state, including one of our representatives. Therefore, what should be pointed out in particular is that here is the Croatian Government once more to consider, to withdraw this final proposal or to think carefully, given that it is facing another control by the Constitutional Court, of course not only in terms of form, but also in terms of content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52138	Thank you very much. We have three corrections. It's Mr. Markovanovic first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I am correcting the inaccuracies of a colleague that this government does not want to hear or see dissatisfied and bitter people. We've all witnessed that for two years, the government's representatives have been looking at and listening to you, even though you're chronically dissatisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52140	Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52141	Correcting an incorrect quote from a colleague... Can I? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52142	Don't, don't say it either when you haven't got the word from the bench. You didn't get the word and you can't speak. He was given a representative of Tomljanović. Mr. Tomljanović got his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52143	Here might be something to contribute to this debate. In fact, a colleague said, "Police have decided to kill."The police decided to kill, not bring people to justice."and what kind of behavior is this besides that of an incorrect alleged parliamentary representative, former minister of justice, so it is precisely a disgrace that says in the Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament, the police decided to kill by commenting on the latest armed incident when it happened with the fatal consequence of... Well, it's unacceptable behavior, so it's an insult to the institution, and it's a former minister, for the entire police force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52144	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52145	Injury 209 of a colleague abuses the Rules of Procedure. These are the words that, wait a minute, these are the words spoken by the leader of the police union, and they were also heard by the leading people. Mr. Jagic literally said that. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52146	You have called for Article 209 unfounded, unfounded, and even that it is true that a union representative said it was not an official representative of the police, if he said so, but a representative of the union. And you can't talk then, because the union president can't speak for the police. On behalf of the police, the one who's a representative of the police may speak. And the union is a union. That's, uh, not to go any further, so let's move on. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52147	Mr. Vice President... The colleague incorrectly repeats the claim, and only now is it possible to call on some quotes, the police were defending themselves, the police were doing their job, and let each service do its job as the Croatian police do. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52148	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Ponzimir Mršić's turn. Excuse me, she has a replica of Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52149	Thank you very much. My colleague Antičević, we are not nervous, we listen carefully. You reminded us of many, of public gatherings, but somehow these memories only come to Split's protests, and you don't remember, say, protests and gatherings before 2000, when some today's MPs and those MPs were together with the ministers and ministers on tractors, and then after 2000, the same peasants, when they had peaceful protests, broken parking tickets, charged fines and... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52150	Ms. Ljubica Lalic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52151	Well, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 209(2), because my colleague Lovrin, using the abuse of an institution to correct an incorrect assumption, merely said inaccuracy and complete inaccuracy. ... But this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. in the replica, she said completely inaccuracy and complete untrueness. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In order to argue, especially other slanderers then that part must be known, however, a colleague abuses the Rules of Procedure unfounded, unargued and inadmissible... others defending his failures.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52152	The advantage is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and Ms Ljubica Lalić did not properly report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure because Mrs Ana Lovrin had a replica, and you cannot do so through the violation of the Rules of Procedure. ... Well, the replica, I didn't say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, let's do it. Let's move on. He has a reply to the replica of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52153	I fully agree with what my esteemed colleague Lovric said, and I would further add that precisely with her favor and her sense of democracy is just as long as the time of the mayor's license was issued just for putting a large two-metre, four-metre poster of General Ante Gotovina, who was arrested today and unfortunately here you see how times change, the current mayorate, it took away the right of that association to highlight that poster because the Toby walls have now become very old and are protected monuments of culture. Then we still have the Split Riviera, perhaps you will agree or disagree with it, where there was shouting on the waterfront – there were times when the authorities were able to sell Croatian people for the Jews, we will not allow Croatia to become a socialist international protectorate, not our sons, our best Croatian generals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52154	You've shown how opinions evolve and how some people get better, and some never get better, they always stay... Let's move on. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. Mr. Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You see, there's some strange irony in the fact that today we're discussing this bill for two reasons. For two reasons. Namely, if this law is passed on Friday, it will be a day, just the day before December 10th, the Day of Human Rights, the International Human Rights Day. This will mark the international day with the original parliamentary majority. I guess we'll be unique in the world that day ahead of the International Human Rights Day, we're passing a law prohibiting assembly and protest. The second irony, the second irony, is that we are talking about the right to gather and protest today on the day that news came that General Gotovina was arrested. This may not stand in a direct relationship, but be remembered, be the memories of February 11, 2001, when 150,000 people gathered on the Split coast. Then, in accordance with the right to protest, according to the right to a gathering which is forbidden by this law, the authorities were sent, will you send the creators of the state to The Hague, if it is necessary for you to go to The Hague? They were carrying banners. Judge traitors, not heroes. Know Croatian Jews cannot betray all Croatian people. Today's prime minister was at the rally, and speaking of The Hague and Mrs. Carla del Ponte, I quote: "Croatian people will never bow their heads" and today we experience that this same Mrs. Carla del Ponte warmly thanked him for his cooperation on the capture of the escaped general. I saw a statement on Carla del Ponte's TV and it seemed to me that this congratulatory card, that this thank you was not curtoatized. Carla del Ponte is truly truly grateful to Prime Minister Sanader for everything he has done with a heart attack on General Gotovina. Sincere congratulations come from other parts of the world. Serbian President Boris Tadic also sincerely congratulated Sanader for helping catch Gotovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52156	We'll probably be congratulating him soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52157	What? I didn't hear you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52158	Congratulations, it is not your responsibility to convey world congratulations, but I have commented. If Tadic congratulated Sanader, he will most likely soon be congratulated by Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52159	With these congratulations, Prime Minister Sanader will join us with enthusiasm and we will join in advance when he congratulates Serbian President Tadic, but so far, Tadic is congratulating him for helping catch Gotovina. The history of the ban on gathering in Croatia is interesting. During the first HDZ administration, protest assemblies were banned. Let's just think of a set of support for Radio 101 when the HDZ government then wanted to subtract the concession from Radio 101. Citizens gathered, news came in the afternoon, Radio 101 called for a gathering by evening in Ban Jelačić Square, the needle did not stop. All the streets were filled. President Tudjman was then hospitalized in Washington or where he ordered the meeting to be banned. Then Minister Jarnjak disobeyed him, which cost him his duties. But that's why he listened when he banned a union protest in Ban Jelacic Square a few months later. There were special forces in masked uniforms, armed to the teeth, and banned that union rally. In 2000, when I first came to the session as a newly elected representative, we passed barricades that remained with HDZ authorities. The entire square of Mark was blocked by those iron ramps and was there by the police who protected the entire area and protected it until January 3rd, or until the new government banned it by means of a ban, and the ramps and the police removed it. And it began to protest normally, as anyone wanted and for what he wanted. And I won't forget Slavko Linic, I'll never forget him, that statement came out in Dnevnik. He said, "Get the cops out of the government building, move the security there and let them beat us if they think we're guilty of beating us. They chose us, they have the right to ask us for something, they have the right to tell us what they want." But it's Slavko Linic. It was never prohibited at the time of the coalition government to protest against anyone and anywhere. Never. Even when everyone knew, when it was white, it was protesting, these protests were organized, they were instrumentalized, they were ordered by HDZ, not even then. Not even when the prime minister was hit with yogurt, and I wonder what a bomb was instead of yogurt. Because the guy who threw yogurt or pâté, he threw the pâté. The man who threw the pâté at Prime Minister Racan found it after the entire arsenal of weapons and did not fall behind from the war somewhere in the attic. He hid it in a double wall. In a double wall. Where was the current prime minister then as head of the opposition to take care of the security of politicians? He encouraged such people to throw pâtés, to gather, to camp, to roar, to make a mess, to threaten, to call for the overthrow of power, to call for a coup. He encouraged them. No one is ordering protests today, but he is today's prime minister, and today he is unacceptable to protest against him and his government. He's sorry he's doing this for the protection of state interests, and we all know he's not. It's the protection of the political elite. Political elites and not her. This is not an expression of rational policy, it's a move of frightened order. Why isn't it a rational policy expression? You see, he defends himself in front of Parliament and the government. So where to protest like I said? Where? In Maximir, in the zoo? Well, they don't mind the behavior of wolves or bears. They have something against government behavior. Where to protest than before the government? And secondly, look at the present, why isn't the expression of rational policy? So today's law obliges anyone who intends to organise a protest to inform the police, to say how many protesters they expect, to say when the protest will begin and say when the protest will end. And the police are therefore doing a security assessment and deciding whether or not the assembly will approve. So if she thinks that a set of security aspects is unacceptable, she doesn't have to approve the rally. So let Minister Kirin use his powers. So let the government use its right to allow or not allow some gatherings. So if he thinks the rally is dangerous for security, let him forbid it, but let the government do it because it's her job. And not to send us in here to the Parliament such legal proposals that should cover the government's indecisiveness to ban an assembly itself and to say clearly in front of everyone, we're not going to let you protest. But whether you pass this law or not, you people won't shut up. There have been attempts before you, and the laws have been infamous in that first Yugoslavia, on the protection of the state, nothing has helped anyone. The more you defend people from speaking, the louder they will speak. It's already embarrassing for you, and it's going to make you even more uncomfortable. Therefore, in your own interest, give this up. Give up on this, at least you'll save your chance of democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52160	Thank you very much. We have two replicas and two corrections. The first is the replica of Mr. Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52161	I didn't mean to answer, but under the impression of General Gotovina's arrest, and some words here, I must say a few sentences. Ms. Carla del Ponte has reason to thank the Croatian government and Prime Minister Sanader because as the "index" portal recently announced, our Croatian agents have discovered where General Gotovina was hiding. So they located him, and he was arrested by Spanish police officers. But let's put that aside. More shocking for every true Croatian patriot, and I believe that all of us are at the heart of our Croatia, is Serbia's congratulations on the arrest of General Gotovina. But even more shocking is Mr. Bebic's statement that he hopes Sanader will also congratulate the Serbian prime minister. Because that's how far we've come to equalise Ante Gotovina with Mladic and Karadzic. It's a shame, though I hope it's a lapus.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52162	You don't need to raise your tone and create an artificial mood. I said that soon, Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader may also congratulate Mr. Tadic. Well, whatever you guys figure it out. Let's move on. Replica, Mr. Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wouldn't go that far and talk about this one. I would have talked about something that happened in this House five minutes ago. ... It is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You mentioned human rights and said what you said. I'd say anything and everything, remember from closer and past, and from closer and further past this and that. I'm really asking you if you remember your colleague's statement said five minutes ago that the police decided to kill her. Will you, yes, that's what she said. Will you, colleague, apologize for that statement as a fellow representative on behalf of the club or in any other way? Even if that statement was made by accident. Will you do it for those guards who were recently killed by bandits or on behalf of those human rights you have called upon? Please be clear in your replica, don't talk about Anti Gotovina again, I'm not talking about that right now. I'm asking you, I'm asking you honestly and openly what are you going to do with it? That's a big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52164	Answer, Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52165	I won't talk about Anti Gotovina, I'll talk about you, I'll talk about you. My colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinovi debated 15 minutes ago, you didn't answer her line, it took you 15 minutes to figure out what you were trying to say. So much for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52166	Replica, Mr. Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52167	Here's the esteemed Mr. President. I have answered the replica deliberately so that Mr. Stazic can answer me if he will and others who mentioned here on several occasions this afternoon, just this afternoon mentioned and the Split Riviera and step forward and General Ante Gotovina. I'm here to say that General Gotovina fled Croatia not from Croatia, not from The Hague, but from then on, because then the government prepared the indictment. If he hadn't, you remember another man's statement to the coalition when he was talking about inappropriate generals. If it hadn't been for that power back then, then today General Gotovina would have defended himself from freedom like General Cermak and General Matach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52168	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52169	Look, please. You see, if you just happened to accept that it's true that General Gotovina escaped from the government at the time, not before the indictment, so why didn't he come back when you returned to power? Why didn't he come back when he had so much trust in you? He didn't come back because he knew what was waiting for him, and in this respect he was more intelligent, I won't say from who, than you who defend him, I'll say, because he would have been arrested here as Croatian agents have arrested him outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52170	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52171	On several occasions, Col. Stazić incorrectly named the proposed Law. In particular, can you hear me? You specifically said it was a law banning public gathering. It's not exactly the law on banning public gathering, it's the Law on public gathering. This Law does not prohibit but regulates, and as regards the work of the intensity of the motionors in terms of memory and memory, and who remembers during what period of time he remembers or recalls, so remember the position of your club and you in terms of discussing and accepting the first bill that has almost identical solutions to this Act, and in a particular segment and even more liberal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52172	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52173	Thank you. Well, my colleague Stazic incorrectly claimed that this law was a move of the frightened government. So, this law is not a move of the frightened government because against this government it is impossible to gather 100,000 protesters as against yours, your problem is how people experience you and this Law fellow Stazic continues to allow, under this Law you can still gather 100,000 people on the Split coast, and this Law does not allow, can you even imagine that you are gathering 10,000 people on... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's my question for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52174	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, but it's known that this institute is used for anything anyone wants to say, so there's no need to... Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Nenad Stazic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52175	Well, quite exactly, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, you've found that this isn't about any correction of the allegations, this is a clear warning, this is a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm asking all of you not to give any notice to the MP because I doubt it would seem educational.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52176	It's my business to assess whether I'm going to say it and refuse to give a warning because such cases happen at any moment and I could share hundreds of warnings here in the Parliament. He answered the word after Mr. Stazic, but I had to make corrections and this, State Secretary Mr. Ivica Buconjic. ... I didn't see what to do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Lucky I'm on this side, I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52177	I'm calling even though I didn't want to answer because I didn't expect this qualification to kill the police instead of bringing them in. Perhaps you'd prefer that the MPs were killed, if they hadn't implemented the law and protected the safety of citizens and property. I assure you.....the noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52178	Aggressivity won't help you. That's enough of you, you answer your word five times, I haven't given you a warning. ... Let me react, because you won't let me talk at all, because you're up here in the voice of you 10 speaking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let her finish and then you'll... I didn't give you my word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't give you my word. I didn't give my word. It's been raining here for half an hour, Mr. Linic, so I've been going over that intrusion into the word... We don't get an empty name, sir. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He got his word. Finish the debate. ... It won't help you radicalize. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Secretary of State. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Finish the word, Mr. Secretary of State. ... /The noise in the hall./... Finish your presentation, Mr. Secretary of State. /The noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52179	The police will protect the safety of all citizens. /The noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52180	Are you giving up or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52181	If it helps the situation I'm giving up. It's just not right for me not to say what I wanted to say. /The noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52182	[[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52183	No quote indicated. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52184	If you're done, Mr. Secretary of State or are you giving up?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52185	I'm not done, but I'm giving up on purpose... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52186	You give up, you are not allowed to speak to the end of your life.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52187	It's not true that it wasn't brought... /The noise in the hall. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52188	Mrs. Opacic, come in. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52189	Mr. Vice President, I'm asking you nicely to set a ten-minute recess for the club session.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52190	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, please pause for ten minutes for consultation [[10 minutes off the same thing.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52191	On behalf of the HNS Club, I'm looking for a ten-minute break. [[Intruder: The same.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52192	I'm setting a break of ten minutes. We start at 18.32 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52193	We're moving on with the session. SDP representative club, respected representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52194	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. It seems to me that something less than maybe 10 or 15 days went by when we had one situation like this when we asked for breaks and then I warned here about an atmosphere in a hall that wasn't good, a way of communication that wasn't good. Because every time the right arguments for discussion run out, then insults, qualifications and something that doesn't belong in Parliament. There's room for a heated debate, but there's no room for insults and qualifications. Unfortunately, then we detected another problem, which is that each time the President's desk has no uniform practice and does not react equally and that as long as there is going to be such a situation. There's been a conflict here now. Namely, our colleague Ingrid, who in her debate made some sentences, what she had done wrong, made a mistake so much that she did not state that it was a quote from the president of the police union. And I'd like to say, if that quote was incorrectly cited, my colleague Ingrid is willing to apologize for that. But what we're going to do with the secretary of state who got up here and accused the MPs that they would certainly be happier if a police officer had been killed. It's a very rude bribery by the secretary of state and anti-business behavior. For the purpose of Article 109 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Rules of Procedure of the Government's 2nd Representative present to Parliament and working bodies, I quote: "He participates in the work of the Government, represents the views of the Government, gives notices, expert explanations, declares the amendments submitted if it is authorised, and informs the Government of the positions and opinions of the Parliament, i.e. the working bodies". Mr. Secretary of State, there is no right for you to come here and in this way to set up representatives and communicate with MPs in this House. Therefore, the question here now is what we will do with representatives of the government who continuously violate the Rules of Procedure and insult MPs and have not been warned once by the President's desk. And finally, one more thing. We of the SDP Club will make our full contribution to discussing the arguments in this Chamber. However, every time we are not protected from insults by the President's desk, we are forced to protect ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52195	Order! Order, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52196	No one can force us out of the assembly, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52197	Order, Mr. Vice President! I chair the session, I give my word, and please don't. Let's all stick to the Rules of Procedure together. Let him say what anyone has to say. There's a procedure. HDZ club, respected representative Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I estimate that every opportunity is used to create an electrified atmosphere in this House. Who needs it and why it needs it, I have an opinion on it. If it was from the president's table, on the charges already on the second occasion there was no equal treatment, it was my fault that Mrs. Anticevic-Marinovic did not give a warning after she said it. That the police decided to kill. And then when I didn't first warn, and then I walked away from Mr. Slavko Linic's assembly that's been creating the atmosphere around here, throwing, jumping off the bench, hitting the bench. I am guilty of not giving him a warning or even of creating riots in the assembly and preventing the normal work of the Parliament, I have not removed him from the assembly. I am guilty of allowing the secretary of state after repeated search for words and after numerous corrections and incorrect allegations and replicas that followed to finally receive the word. He wasn't allowed to finish a sentence, let alone that I could react because in that noise and noise I didn't hear at all, even now I don't know what Mr. Secretary said. Because I didn't hear what he said at all, and I didn't hear it for you. Now, sensitivity to insults. All these days, we've been arguing about who insulted whom, which is rank and weight of insult. I believe, for example, that the entire HDZ is offended by the statement that two representatives of Letica and Lončar are doing the dirty work of HDZ, so HDZ produces dirty jobs. I was deeply offended when no one answered when we were identified as a criminal organization but you kept silent in line with perhaps a long time ago assessment that the entire Croatian democratic community was under investigation. And the sensitivity of you to everything is enormous. You're so sensitive when you're not listening to what your MPs say. In the opening statement on the budget on behalf of the Club, the entire exposure was the demeanor, disqualification and insult of the Government and HDZ by your representative. As today's opening statement on this point was disqualifying at the border of insult. Listen to what the HDZ representatives and others say, but also what you say and your representatives say, and then judge who insulted and insulted whom. No one's an Indian cow world to get away with it. Everyone needs to be sensitive, everyone needs to be as objective as possible, and then everything will be easier. So, if I started to make a mistake, I began to make mistakes about Mrs Anticevic-Marinović and Mr Linic's statement, and then, I admit that I am not giving any warning about correcting the incorrect allegations, that I am allowing it to spread and that it has nothing to do with the debate that it is about. Then it's over, part of the debate about Mr. Anti Gotovina, and we're about this law on public gathering. Mr. Stazic in each of his discussions is at the border or is crossed by insults and disqualifications of HDZ. All the time. So when your president warned me that compared to Mr. Boras to him, Mr. Boras found the strength to come here in front of all of you, to apologize for what he did on the board. Also, Mr. Shuker, after insulting not Mr. Church but Slavko Linic, was invited from the presidential table to apologize here and he apologized. I don't remember any of your excuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52199	All right, wrap it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52200	Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52201	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52202	Honorable President, Secretary of State, Honorable Mr. Representatives. I regret every life lost in the Republic of Croatia, I regret the loss of life and the Croatian criminal, but the two robbed the Croatian bank, shot the Croatian police, wounded the police, and not one of them expected the police to throw candy at them, but that they would shoot clearly. They defended themselves and their 4,000 kunas to allow us to have 15 thousand kuna deposited in the bank and that's true and ask the citizens what they think. The ministry claims to be congratulating these guys, you don't have to call them, those guys fenced their own mother if it's exactly what I had to read. We have to stand aside as a Croatian Parliament policeman, perhaps in a thousand cases they are wrong, when someone calls me 0.1 or 2 proms or because I drive 10 or 20 kilometers faster, but here they were right and they acted as Croatian police officers. I also regret that Croatian police officer who was wounded, I also expect Presidents of the Parliament and Croatian President Stipe Mesic to simply honor these boys. In this year, 400 may have been committed in Croatia. Next year, maybe 500 or 600 will be committed. When the SDP comes back to power again, if that happens in 2007 or 2008, 700 or 800 or 900 will be done, and that's what we have to stop today and so many of these guys need to be thanked. I'm also aware of the fact that it will be difficult to behave in power if there is a change of government as it was in 2000, but one problem we won't do if we're in that position we were in in 2000, we won't have to deal with it, and that's the case, Gotovina. The opposition couldn't even solve him today's or former government. She couldn't solve him. Because of "Storm" I argue, I openly, that's what I've always said about this speaker, Gotovina is not guilty, but I also think that Gotovina must defend himself in The Hague and that Croatia must help him. Today and I said that two, three times after this pay phone, the government of Ivo Sanader in the Gotovina case should be supported. President Ivo Sanader, president of the HDZ tomorrow, should be destroyed. My list was the only one who won the list of Eve Sanader and I'll do anything to make it happen again in the next election, but today, in this case, it has to be supported. Tomorrow he will come to power again or he won't come, it doesn't matter and he'll have to deal with serious problems again, and that's why it is necessary to prepare clearly for power and not our intelligence department discovered Gotovina in Maljorka or I don't know where he was, that's what the Americans, the English, have informed us that we are simply taking part in it. Don't be children, so it's just like that and we all know it, but it has to be done to make Croatia higher than its citizens who live from that social, from that pension, etc. We could go without a mortgage ahead and support the government today in this particular case, and tomorrow we should try to get the HDZ president out of power, but not in the Gotovina case.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52203	Gentlemen, stick to the subject for which you asked for club sessions. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52204	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Yeah... Kill him too many words? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some say that the word has evil power, and it seems to me that we often use that evil power of words when we don't need it. I understand the atmosphere today in Parliament, not only in Parliament, but in all of Croatia, and I understand both the emotions and the stress and the fears and the inconveniences that it... I can really understand that, but it must in no way be the reason for the atmosphere between us if we are discussing something quite different and I really don't see any reason for both tragedy and police action to be the reason that the Secretary of State is addressing an individual parliamentary representative the way he was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do we want? Too many words, and in that case we used in the media when criminals killed the guards, so we asked where the police were, now that the police were going to be where they were supposed to be and do what we're asking them to do, it's not good again. So what do we expect, with the slingshots, those who go into the banks, walk into the post office and the banks? Every life that's lost is worth regrets, but we've sent the police here with the task of doing their job. I'm sure the people who were in that action deserve recognition because they acted right and did a lot of work for those and in the future to understand each other. Why do we bid on it here and in the media? Why is it even a topic of big media statements when something like this happens and... That they killed cops, they killed cops you or similar, maybe even those same cops in Međimurje, and that's why they were the subject of our competition and reckoning in the Mark Square Act, or public gathering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We tried a few months ago to sort things out with the Rules of Procedure. I remind you colleagues and colleagues that this Rules of Procedure, the addition of the Rules of Procedure, failed because of a single provision, because of a single amendment, we failed to vote and amend the Rules of Procedure, all clubs agreed that we should also develop a consensus on the content of the proceedings. Only one little thing was for a reason... Because I now propose to them this, and it is the responsibility of the Presidency and the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, that we make an effort early next year to renegotiate this business because clearly the arrangements are not the subject that you could respect, and I am sure that this time we will do business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The chairman of the Constitutional Committee and the Rules of Procedure is competent enough to do so to succeed this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52205	PGS club, SBH-, MDS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52206	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Let me, first of all, express my deep disappointment that once again in the House, it has shown that the debate in this House can go away from the metrics or that we can find ourselves in a situation where we can't see a tree or we could count a whole series of such proverbs that speak very eloquently of how it is possible with adrenaline and pseudoadrenaline to cloud the water so that no big fish can be seen in it. We're talking about the Public Assembly Act. About this law on public gathering Mr. Secretary of State, my club which is a small club and I absolutely don't think that often in this assembly will respect our opinion, we in this small club think that this is not a good bill, we think that the entire Croatian public has been in continuity since the first proposal until today has actually condemned an attempt to prevent protests on Mark's square, we think this is an explanation here that says that the configuration of Mark's square is the basic reason one reason that doesn't hold water. That's what we all think and that's why we're not going to support him, but we think that you're the ones who are the legal promoters and we're holding that on one topic we shouldn't go to on the other, on the third, on the fourth, and on the fifth, and we don't really know what we're talking about. For this reason we express our disappointment that once again it has been shown that the Croatian Parliament is at that level that such things are absolutely happening. We hold and so we would also like to express the apropo of this break, we really don't see why we should discuss the police for the constitutional role of the police to argue, because of the constitutional role of the police to which we, I am convinced we all care from left to right and lead to situations like this that the citizens think a big circus is happening in the Croatian Parliament. The citizens of the Croatian Parliament and of us individually think very badly of us for reasons which are objective and for even more reasons which are not objective. It calls us for some strange money we don't have, it calls us for the privileges that those who call us. We're called by people who have twice as much pay as we do, and with all this, we're making them even more successful. I think it would be justified to say why we support something or why we don't, and whoever has the majority should bring it in so he will pay the price or win the prize in the next election that's our attitude. We don't support this proposal. We think, I remember the 1995 protest from, to me, the most unpleasant protest by Croats from Bosnian Posavina in 1995 or in early 1996 through some others to police and Mungos protests. We've all always stayed alive and I don't think we should defend ourselves with such measures. It's my personal opinion as a representative and us at the club and, but we also think that in these situations we shouldn't come especially because we come beyond the criteria under discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52207	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSLS DC, LS's respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52208	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I would correct or supplement Mr. Bebić when he spoke earlier who he apologized to, and I must say that my memory serves me well that my colleague, Mr. President of the Parliament, also apologized to him for a sentence which was said, I know it was during my stay here in the Parliament. This topic that we are discussing today, colleagues and colleagues, has been present between us for six months now in various ways through various media, various media information, and stepped down politicians and so on. However, it was unfortunate that here today we begin to discuss this Law. That our general was arrested today. Thus, both were likely to have an impact on a little out of the context of fine conduct in order to suit the parliamentary representative and this House of Commons. Likely, many of us are irritable and sensitive. So I attribute a large part of that electricalized atmosphere to one of those facts. Our colleague Ivo Bagarić, in his debate about an hour ago, tried to defend how he is here on this market, this fence that it is not because of archaeological research. I claim to be a colleague that's precisely because of archaeological research. And I'll confirm that for what? A grain of wisdom is sought in this square beneath that asphalt, the wisdom of our greats who were in this hall, who were in the Bane Courts, who were in the Constitutional Court building, seeking the people of this grain of wisdom, which they will probably, when they find it, give to us here to the council representatives and other officials. This grain of wisdom is always needed and especially in situations like this where we are at times and so on. As a parliamentary representative, I appeal to my colleagues that indeed there, this important gift that God has given man the gift of the word to use in the way it suits him. Culturally, reasoned and not to insult others and not to spread through this lie of falseness and so on. A word is indeed a very dangerous weapon if a man does not use it as it is appropriate. And two three words about our police force. I think our police have earned far more respect than was shown to her here in this hall today. What the police did to protect the constitutional order she did in accordance with her powers. We therefore owe it to her as parliamentary representatives and as citizens of respect. And after all, I think it's inappropriate, that it's not worthy of a parliamentary representative to put a cop together with a criminal who burned his father's body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52209	We continue the debate, Honored Representative Frano Piploić. Here you go. He spoke on behalf of the club. Now it's your turn to discuss. [[The intruders don't understand.]] What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52210	No, I didn't, I didn't say I was giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52211	From what, what? [[Intruder: Everything's fine.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52212	No, since the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52213	So you have a debate now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52214	Yeah, yeah. I know and I understand. I didn't realize in the first wave, Mr. President. Nothing, colleagues and colleagues here I will continue my debate in, related exclusively to the subject we are discussing here. I'm a little bit caught up in this, this situation that right after the debate on behalf of the club, I'm in a situation where I have to argue as a parliamentary representative here. First of all, I will say that I simply support this bill for the reason that I have not found enough arguments that are offered here during this debate that it is a violation of human rights, rights and freedom. St. Mark's Square since, in fact, he is the main, main subject of the dispute he is actually one cult place of Croats, but politicians have actually turned that place into a place of protest. Between the cult site commitment and the place of protest, I opt for St. Mark's Square to remain a cultural place for Croatian citizens and so on. Those who offer to limit human rights and freedoms, I don't think they've offered enough arguments here to make it more effective or more accurate. The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Article 11 states when appropriate gatherings may be prohibited or appropriate gatherings may be limited. It is said that these are rights enjoyed by members of the armed forces, police or state administrations. So nothing in the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights by this act, by this act offered to the Croatian Parliament is, they are not, they are not, at risk. What does this look like in countries in the European Union? In Austria, gatherings are banned within a 500m radius of the building of parliament, government and so on. In Slovenia, it is a gathering limited to 30 meters from the government and parliament buildings. In the Czech Republic, that's 100 meters. In Lithuania, there is a minimum distance of 25 metres in one situation. In another situation, the smallest distance is 75 meters from the government building. In Latvia, too, distance means forbidden, forbidden gathering at a distance of less than 50 metres. In Estonia, too, 50 metres and Hungary is not listed as a metric but is indicated if police can prohibit gatherings within 48 hours of his announcement for two reasons. The first reason is if the gathering threatens the functioning of parliament or courts. And two, if normal traffic can't be secured in some other way. Therefore, I would not continue to owe this debate because I could talk a lot about the markets themselves, that the markets were a very interesting sociological category, that the markets were a historical, cultural, civilizational achievement, that the markets were agoras, forums, etc., that they were places where dictators forced fear into the bones, but also that the markets were places where the people were determined by the fate of dictators, that the markets were a place of gathering and various folk delights, that the markets were places of entourage, rulers, differences between the regiments and other ecclesiastical ceremonies, etc., etc. Therefore, if we are in good faith and in good faith, I believe that this government proposal will be understood in a way that needs to be understood, and believe that one who is maligned enough can find enough arguments in the Bible to prove that there is no God. So, as well as in this proposal, we can always chop up a lot of things and show that it is actually a violation of human rights and freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52215	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52216	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on public gathering, i.e. amendments and additions, has a really interesting way of adopting. This law was passed by the Croatian Parliament on 12 July 2005. However, the problem arose when it was found that there were not enough hands for its adoption. We at the SDP club pointed out that it was an organic law that required the majority of the votes of all MPs, the ruling majority of them, and said they had denied it and claimed that the majority of the votes of all MPs needed for its vote, that no majority of the votes of all MPs were required. The SDP club filed a complaint with the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court ruled that it was an organic law and that its adoption in the Assembly was not regular. The law has been annulled and the government has now referred it back to the Parliament for adoption and it is interesting that we now have a proposal for a law on the same text as that first proposal that this House made on July 12th. So the Constitutional Court annulled it. Why do I say that's interesting? Well, because in the case of this proposal of the Law on Public Assembly, the government gave up its already somewhat common practice. In fact, we have already had the opportunity to convince ourselves that the government hastily made a decision, so when the public hastily reacts negatively to that decision, then the Government withdraws that decision. Let's remember the Bechtel case, let's remember the Liburni hotel affair, so here's the latest Volgs Deutsche affair where the government without the knowledge of the president of the state as co-creator of foreign policy at one of its closed sessions there sometime at the 9th month decided to return land and property to the Danube Germans, Austrian citizens. The public reacted extremely negatively and now it is a matter of when and whether the agreement will come to confirm in parliament. The public has also reacted explicitly negatively to this proposal to amend and supplement the Public Assembly Act. But the government obviously does not give up as in previous cases but is very determined to protect itself from dissatisfied citizens. So in this case, fear of public dissatisfaction in front of the government's headquarters is much stronger than giving in to a negative public attitude as in previous cases. It is not incomprehensible if we bear in mind that it is a government that first convinces itself that it is doing very well, and then convinces the citizens that everything this government is doing is primarily for the benefit of the citizens. This is the first half of the mandate was primarily aimed at the European Union, so a little neglect of the internal policy, but now that is behind us, the negotiations have started and in the second half of the mandate will turn to the country's life problems and very soon the citizens will feel the improvement of their standards. Surely in a situation where he wants to convince himself and others publicly criticized, he does not respond because he disturbs the world of illusions. And then the government decided on this bill. Citizens will no longer have the right to public gathering in Mark's square. So in front of the government building and the parliament, but that's why they'll be able to gather and publicly protest near cultural monuments, which was now not allowed by the applicable law. And then the government, in its explanation of this bill, says that in this way the number of restrictions on the place of public gatherings is shrinking. They're right, because Mark's square is only one, and the monuments of the culture of the zeroth category have filled more, and that logic really reduces the number of restrictions. In light of the need to pass this law, it is said that the adoption of this law is necessary for the sake of the interests of national security or public order and peace in order to prevent riots or crimes, to protect health or morals or to protect the rights and freedoms of others. It is further stated that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly is aimed only at the most necessary restrictions necessary for the sake of the interests of national security and to protect the rights and freedoms of others. Furthermore, the government also calls for the need to ensure the protection of both the president or the head of foreign states or governments because visits by foreign delegations have been frequented. The government finds its justification for adopting such a drastic ban on public gathering in the specificity of building configuration in Mark’s square, so it is not possible to provide wider space with appropriate fixed technical means of prevention, but rather, according to the Government, it is only logical to regulate such a provision, i.e. determine the appropriate safety belt. Maybe it's the only logical solution for a government who doesn't want to hear publicly criticized criticism, because the criticism is disturbing the illusion of excellent work results. And I believe that with a little goodwill, with a little bit of good political will, other logical solutions could be found that would ensure and unquestionably necessary security for all those who act in buildings on Mark's square without at the same time prohibiting public gathering of citizens in that area. Because I'd like to remind you of article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia recognises all citizens the right to a public gathering and a peaceful protest. Article 38(1) and (2) The constitution guarantees freedom of opinion and expression of thought, with freedom of expression of thought involving, in particular, freedom of speech and public appearance. All this guarantees the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the government says the only logical solution is to ban citizens from gathering in front of the government building. I think only one conclusion can be drawn from this decision, which is that the government is afraid of its citizens, afraid of their protests and publicly expressing criticism at the expense of the government's work, I don't know why. I don't know why that fear when this government as Prime Minister Sanader himself is doing a great job, so I guess citizens should be satisfied, or maybe he doesn't believe what he's saying or saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52217	Thank you. And a respected representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52218	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will not be able to personally, and I believe my club will also support this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Assembly for both material and legal reasons, but of course also for political, social, cultural, so if you want democratic reasons. Let me give you the argument. First of all, I'd like to remind you that it's Article 42. The Constitution of each one secured as constitutional right, the right to a public gathering and a peaceful protest. Second, to regulate this right in accordance with our Constitution, with the same Article 42. Third, the same law which regulates the exercise of those rights is possible in accordance with Article 16. The Constitution shall restrict certain rights, of course, if the freedoms and rights of other people are protected, and the legal order, public morality and health and, of course, that restriction must be stated in the Constitution of Article 16, paragraph 2, the proportionate nature of the need for a restriction in each individual case. My colleagues and colleagues are also asking me a personal question based on the practice of experience so far, in which segment human rights and freedoms of other people, legal order, public morality and health have been compromised if people have been protesting in St. Mark. I didn't get a chance to see that. I had the opportunity to see and experience realized that they had achieved their right to a peaceful gathering and public protest and had achieved their sovereignty's right to in this way publicly control and call power for good rewards, and for bad moves they criticize and challenge. Namely, which restricts the right to a peaceful gathering and public protest, the sovereign Republic of Croatia, or if you want part sovereign. I would like to remind you of Article 1(2). The Constitution, which states: In the Republic of Croatia, the power comes from the people and belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens, and in this respect it should be kept in mind that these people who have gathered are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that they have constitutional right to a peaceful gathering and public protest and that this right can only be limited in the cases referred to in Article 16. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It seems to me that such conditions have not met and that in such a situation it is simply not necessary to prohibit the gathering and peaceful protest in any square in the Republic of Croatia not only in the capital but also in... the second question is until when and under what conditions this gathering may take place and whether and when a ban may be limited if the threat of protected rights and freedoms set out in Article 16 of the Constitution arises. The other reasons are actually the following. We have the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Gathering which at the same time does not take account and in this respect it is formal, so if you want to and not technically unsecured about the fact that the Constitutional Court is for a reason so-called. formal non-constitutionality due to an undefined qualification, the required qualified majority in the adoption of the text itself abolished the constitutional law. But the same law that the Constitutional Court abolished in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision remained in force until March 31st. So the question arises, in fact, what are we changing, the Constitutional Court's decision or the text of the amendment and the addition of the Constitutional Law. We are not changing the text of amendments and amendments to the Constitutional Law because this Constitutional Law is the same, the provisions are the same as those that have been abolished, which are, namely, not the Constitutional Law but the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, I am sorry, which the Constitutional Court has abolished because it is exactly the same, and at the same time we do not state in the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law that have ceased, that it will stop what is now, in effect, when, the Constitutional Court decision does not approve that. When will this law that abolished the Constitutional Court end? It's not in the text of the law. This is the second reason for the formal nature of which should be taken into account and which in this respect absolutely this text of the law is undetermined. Third reason. This proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on Peaceful Gathering and Public Protests, Public Gathering and Peaceful Protests is proposed by an urgent procedure. Dear colleagues, all the reasons set out in Chapter IV. for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure... first of all, because the same text that we now need to discuss is in force and is in force by the Constitutional Court's decision until 31.3. next year. Therefore, what is the reason why we are making all this, especially if we have not asked the question, in fact, when we stop or when we fulfill the Constitutional Court's decision by amending and supplementing this Law on the termination of validity, amendments and additions to the Law on Peaceful Gathering and Public Protests. Fourthly, respected colleagues and colleagues, you know if the representatives of the people, the sovereign, want to exercise their sovereign rights of public control of the government because don't forget that the Constitution allows other ways to achieve that authority not only through direct, through its elected representatives but also through its elected representatives, the people are being exercised power by election representatives and direct decision. Let us not forget that the people can request public protests and peaceful gatherings at which they will collect signatures, that the referendum actually states on this issue. So do we need that? Is this what we need when all of the experiences of all the protests from Dubrovnik, from here to Slavonia and from the north to Istria, from Međimurje to Istria, all of these protests that we have so far had were actually protesters, cry out to the people, or for social rights that were threatened by them, which were protected by the Constitution or by human rights and freedoms that were potentially threatened by the authorities, not against the authorities or reactions if the government had sinned, which often led to the government, or in certain situations, reacting and correcting its decision. So what's bothering us? I don't see the reason why it bothers and why it would bother if it could only be on Mark's square. In addition, it is a very interesting fact that the solution is that 100 meters from where the Assembly, the Government or the Constitutional Court or the President is located, there are no peaceful protests and public gatherings. But I would like to remind you of the historical facts, of this history, that we had a session of the Parliament and outside the building of this Parliament not only at the City Hall of the City of Zagreb but also the building of Ina in Zagreb, but also its working bodies outside the metropolis. I would like to remind you that during more occupation, the board of the Croatian Parliament met in Germans in the occupied area, among other things, because we wanted to show this session that we would never agree to the occupation. So we want to ban peaceful protests there that can be protests not only of challenge to the authorities but also of support from the authorities to address such situations... I would like to remind you that our government has a common rule of conduct now and this and the previous government, that sometimes they hold their sessions in the areas of our counties. [[You don't understand.]] Will we then apply such provisions? I don't think such a provision as we have is good. We can discuss the protection of values that protects the Constitution and the proportionate dangers of their possible threats, limit such peaceful gatherings and public protests but should not adopt such a provision as a general provision relating to measured meters of air lines and then you happen to know a paradoxical situation that is impossible you know, we must call upon it, that, with the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Peaceful Gathering and Public Protests in the area of ban is carried out robbery that actually carried out by robbers by robbing mail. So we weren't able to protect that moment either. And in such a situation quite certainly for the debate, it is in fact that from case to case should be made possible to the Government if the legal conditions that should be laid down by law are obtained to limit, that it can limit the peaceful gathering and public protest but should not be given general authority, because it then impairs me in the rights of free citizens that, in fact, by peaceful protest and public gathering, they can expose their position both as free and as equal citizens in order to actually exercise certain rights and warn the Government of possible failures that are taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52219	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52220	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-08-0.u52221	It'll do without. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 10 a.m. because we have about 20 points of the agenda discussed, voting, numerous points, laws, amendments. Yes, the keys should be taken, thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's all for tonight. Tomorrow is just a vote at 10 o'clock. We'll continue on Tuesday with a long-awaited long-sighted theme. We're going to vote. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly. This Law requires most of the 77 MPs. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 83 votes for, 2 abstentions and 29 against, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly was passed, as proposed by the Proposer.
