ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46551	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs. You have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Social Care Act, and I'd like to say that maybe, as far as I know, it's the fifth amendment. However, I would ask you to support this proposal for the following reasons. This proposal to amend and supplement the Law actually makes only two important things, and this is proposed to abolish the Croatian Institute for Social Work. Since the last amendments and additions to the Social Care Act, the situation has actually changed significantly in relation to the formation and the part-round work of the ministries, especially in relation to the centres for social care in the area of family legal protection and criminal legal protection of children and youth with behavioural disorders. A shared competence has been introduced between the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare would carry out services in the field of family legal protection and criminal protection of children and young people with behavioural disorders, while the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity would carry out the tasks of counselling and other preventive jobs in relation to the same category of users with the establishment and beginning of the work of the Croatian Institute for Social Work. It would introduce a third authority's competence, which would not contribute to timely action within the system. Therefore, the abolition of the Croatian Institute for Social Labour under further circumstances is a valid and acceptable solution. In addition, the Croatian Institute for Social Labour does not exist at the moment, it blocks the ministry and therefore, those powers for which it has been given the law are practically not enforceable by the ministry. In addition, the Croatian Institute for Social Work until today, as I said, has not come to life. However, we have before us a big contract with the World Bank, which you will also get on the benches, a major reform of social care that has actually started almost three years ago. And in this reform of social care, we predict that such an institution as the Croatian Institute for Social Work is not adequate to what we predict as a reform. This means, if you remember, the Croatian Institute for Social Work is a facility that is practically centralized, it would, in fact, be one parallel to a practical ministry and also with its headquarters in Zagreb that would centralise all possible experts in one place. It is more acceptable for us to share all those jobs provided by the Croatian Institute for Social Work in such a way as to decentralise it, i.e., that we do not have a practical let's say as one cathedral with two peaks, one is the ministry, the other is the centralized Institute for Social Labour, but that it is decentralised and that we actually have something as adequate as it was imagined as the Croatian Institute for Social Work. Because it is practically known that by centralizing all the institutions in the city of Zagreb in one place, experts are actually centralized and everyone is practically coming to Zagreb, and the terrain, as we popularly call it, is left without an expert. In this way, experts would be kept in the areas where it is necessary, or in the counties, and thus could be better planned, better controlled in fact by the situation in the counties. The second newspaper that caused this amendment and the addition of the Law is the introduction of the Family Center. In accordance with national family policy, the proposed provisions on the establishment of family centres allow for the improvement and development of the network of support institutions of the family. The development of programmes in the community, volunteering and work of citizens' associations that support parents of families, children of youth, persons with disabilities and other socially sensitive groups of the population will begin. It also unites and coordinates the development and promotion of non-institutional forms, support for families, children and youth and other socially sensitive groups of the population, and promotes the implementation of programme activities aimed at parent and youth education, as well as the sensitisation of the public for family values. I'd like to point out here that it's not any newspaper that's being introduced, for example. in Croatia. We, even today, now there are certain counselling centres in some centres for social care in Croatia, such as Zagreb, Rijeka and some others. And therefore, it's a pure prevention that we would do further, in fact, these counseling centres but would be called the Family Centers. Why the Family Centers? Because, I said, I mention, it is also in line with national family policy, and on the other hand, consulting how it is in some European Union countries we have seen that we have family centres in most of them. So, by approaching the European Union, we are also approaching the standards, i.e. the names that this European Union knows. In addition, we used this opportunity to improve the solution of the current law in those parts in which we actually comply with the other law. For example. It is thus amended to amend the composition of the Board of Directors of the Centre for Social Care and Home Social Care in such a way that one member represents all the employees of the Centre. This amendment will achieve compliance with the provision of Article 166. The labour law. Medical nurses are also given the right to pass an expert examination before the examination committee of the Ministry of Health, although they have done part of the training practice in the home of social care and in part in health institutions. The possibility of hiring experts from the list of experts to carry out expert supervision of social care homes and other legal or physical persons carrying out social care activities, i.e. provisions on the professional and inspection of the supervision of social care institutions, is also introduced, and will ensure that supervision is carried out in accordance with the newly established structure and the work of the ministries. I would remind myself that after many situations that were also known in the public, often experts and others said that social care institutions are not given enough concern actually to professional work, that there is inspection and administrative supervision, but it was said that this is run bureaucratically perhaps cold, especially towards children and that there should be stronger professional supervision. We studied it and realized that the best thing to do is then we have a list of experts that can actually be chosen from ours, from our well-known experts who could enter such a list and then carry out expert surveillance. I note here that there would be no confusion, as it has been on some committees, this is about professional surveillance while that inspection and administrative still normally run the ministries. In a clearer way, therefore, we have even here prescribed how an adult can settle the price of accommodation with his property, i.e. what all the contracts should contain in order to contribute to a better application of this standard in practice. It is also precise that certain transitional and final provisions are particularly related to the shared competence between the two ministries. It is also prescribed to the Ministry of Family Affairs to decide on the establishment of family centres in the counties in which, until the date of entry into force of this law within the framework of the Centre for Social Care, a consultation and the obligation to take over the documentation of officials working on these jobs has been established. It is also specified that, if a family centre is not established, it will continue to act as a counseling centre within the Social Care Centre. I would point out here, since it was also questions on some of the boards that because of the introduction of family centres, about 89 people would be employed, so the question was that it would only strengthen the administration, that it would only strengthen red tape. However, I note from these 89 experts, there is exclusively, I think, workers, it is exclusively about professional persons. So, defecologists, pedagogues, psychologists and lawyers. I thank you, and once again I say, we are prepared to comment on all possible observations that you will give us and the answers, and I ask you to support this amendment and the addition of the Social Welfare Act so that we can really, in time, because we have made the distinction between the two ministries, introduce a special phased family centre. And so that we can continue to work uninterruptedly on social care reform, together with the World Bank, and with all possible experts, because two social care laws are being prepared and a working group has been established and a new Family Centres Act has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46552	Thank you. I read that the debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality, but it wasn't because there was no quorum, so we don't have his reports. Do the committee's reporters want a word? Legislatives, labour, social policy and health care? Young man, family and sport? President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Davorko Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46553	Your Honor, Mr. President. At the 23rd session held on 9 November 2005, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, which was submitted by the Government on 30 September. We have considered this bill as an interested body. Following the opening presentations of representatives of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the Committee members supported the draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act. In the debate, various opinions related to the proposed abolition of the Croatian Institute for Social Labour and the establishment of family centres were presented. There are doubts about the effectiveness of the proposed changes, the achievement of the fundamental objective, the greater decentralisation, the more efficient social care system. All participants in the debate supported the idea of prevention of social conditions and expressed hope that the new concept of the system will contribute. But Committee Chairman Davorko Vidovic, in accordance with Article 51. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expressed an opinion which warned that the proposed changes, although about small, meant changing the overall concept of the welfare system, i.e. the reform policy mentioned in the strategy of the development of the Republic of Croatia, "Croatia in the 21st century, the Strategy for the Development of the Pension System and the Social Care System". He also warned of the seriousness and multiplicity of the proposed changes in a highly sensitive system. In addition, the Committee members agreed that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act should be adopted in the proposed text as a basis for further discussion. After the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously with 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46554	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46555	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. So we have one law that actually turns or otherwise sets up, cancels some of the solutions that have been made, that is, reached in the last year of the term of office of the previous government. And this case, as well as a number of other cases, shows that it's actually hard for us to expect continuity and that this government is making all the very important moves of the former government, which were taken somewhere at the end of the term actually cancels out and doesn't want to work for them. What does that really mean, given the mandate of a future government or perhaps some instruction to this government? Don't try anything more serious to do in the last year of your term, because if this is how the next government is going to behave, then you won't actually do what you planned to do, it won't be possible to do. That's what happens here with this welfare policy, the welfare centers. And this happened in a very drastic way when the new government, i.e. this government, abolished the decision to modernise the hospital system in the Republic of Croatia. The system that weighed 7 billion kunas, which planned to modernise and improve health care within 7 years, with loans, etc. The government has abolished everything by saying it's illegal, and that's what's happening now with these welfare centers. What it would really mean is that if we continue to act this way that in the last year of the term of office, you must actually do nothing more serious because if it is not the same government, it will no longer or less have a tendency to support, especially some of the more important solutions of the previous governments. So it's kind of a note regarding then and the actions of course of each, or of this government in this term. Otherwise, social care centres were attempts by the former government to establish something within the social care system that would then be a professional institution that would provide advice, recommendations, analysis of this administrative section in the operational part of the social care system. Although, of course, expertise is very difficult for us, and especially there are no complications of what we are constantly talking about, which is some kind of profession that would be independent of politics. Unfortunately, there is very little in this country, but this was an attempt to create such a thing. And I think that try, that should be examined. It's easy, of course, after two years when you haven't done anything to realize any legal solutions, and that's what happened here, to say that these welfare centers haven't come to life. So they did not live, for there was nothing to do with them. That is why these centres have not been revived, and it would be interesting to try whether this model of the professional parts of the administrative apparatus that would be independent would in some way represent the interests of some kind of profession and the opposite of some policy, whether it could work and what difficulties would be made in this regard. Of course, it did not even try to do this, but after two years of doing nothing in this sense, it is easy to conclude that social care centres have not come to life, and then they need to be abolished, or amended in that sense by law. Something similar happened, but perhaps not as drastic as here, with the Croatian school office. This institution was established within the Ministry of Science and Education, today and sport, as some professional institution that should take care of the professional aspects of education, reform in the system, etc. However, we know from the past two years of the work of this institution, that the Institute has not reached the scope of the activities planned and that the minister is actually more relying on some ad hoc groups because he obviously manages them more easily than some independent institution, which gradually builds its autonomy and really represents a profession in this conflict with politics. This of course did not happen with the Croatian Institute of Education, and this was an attempt to set up such an institution in the social care system and so this idea was definitely abandoned. It will come to order, but we have lost not only two years but we have lost at least four years, because as you can see not only that two years have done nothing but here this institution, this solution is completely abolished. As for the other more serious, important solution to this law, it is the establishment of family centres as a new institution of social care. Of course, a very important issue is being raised, and this is because these institutions are being established outside the social care centre, the question is what kind of coordination will be. It will be an institution that will not have direct ties to social care centres as it has been so far. The consultations were within the social care system. Part of these centers with some problematic or non-problematic forms of coordination. Now these family centers are completely detached from the social care system and, of course, the eternal issue of every organization and every administration, which is the issue of coordination. Whether this coordination is going to be good, so here it is talking about forming a special coordinate apparatus that should coordinate all activities, and I think it is better wherever it is possible to avoid coordination than organisationally connecting various functions so that coordination is as close as possible because coordination is one of the most complicated forms or models of public administration. In that sense, in the name of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Liberal Democrats, I am expressing my skepticism towards this solution. It is, of course, difficult to say in advance, a negative court, to see what this coordination will look like, but in terms of the first solution and this is the abolition of the Croatian Institute of Social Care, I am sure that it is a wrong solution, a wrong relationship with the continuity of the government, towards the continuity of the administration, but it is also a wrong solution, even if it is a solution that is here, so that the independent professional institution is long-standingly complicated, difficult, but it is not easy, but this way we need to go, regardless of the changes of government and not contesting the right to lead and direct therefore the basic processes, however, created some kind of independent, more or less professional, more or less independent systems that could then manage and help that our complete administration, and in this segment, has some continuity. With this, it's actually hard to expect, and it's particularly problematic to say what it actually seems to be somewhere near half the term of office. It would then be much more logical if it had been done immediately in the first year of the term of office and then it would have been seen whether this mechanism would be effective. I am afraid that what has happened before, and that is that the preparations for the establishment of these new institutions, the creation of conditions for their action will come again before the end of this government's term, again into some election period, and again we will not actually have clear indications at the end of the term of office whether this model for which the government has defined itself is successful. So these are all the reasons for the Croatian People's Party's Skypsis Club according to these legal proposals. The club did not decide that it would uniquely support or reject this legal proposal, so it would be left to assess club members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46556	Thank you. HDZ club, respected representative of Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46557	Dear President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Social Care Act in first reading as a beneficial shift in support of the family, the promotion of community work, volunteer work and all according to national family policy. It is good that the debate takes place in two readings, given the importance and sensitivity of the matter regulated by this law, in order to bring attitudes into line and adopt the best legal proposals. Croatia is a social state. Our goal for the future is to move from the social state to social society, where according to the World Bank's research into poverty and social assistance users, the truth is for 2000. So we have 10% of the population is below the national poverty line 4.8% of the population is below the international poverty line that is $4.3 per day per parity of purchasing power. But we also have a relatively high gini coefficient of income inequality. He is with us 0.352 while, for example, in Slovenia is 0.168. But let's go back to the data that says that Croatia is a social state. This shows the share of aid and compensation expenditure in the gross social product compared to the countries of the European Union. The UK is true of 6.4% of the social product for these expenditures, Ireland 5.1, but therefore Sweden 0.8, Norway 0.7, Finland 0.4, Luxembourg 0.4%, Iceland 0.2 and Greece 0.1, and Croatia 0.57%. The European Union average is slightly more than 1.7%. But certainly the needs of our population are greater. In view of unemployment and the age of the population, the share of people over 65 in Croatia has already passed 16% in the total population, which puts us in the old peoples, and thus the need for social assistance and social care. Employment and unemployment are then one of the specific needs for social assistance. The second is the level of income that is achieved in many countries, low irregular income is an important cause of poverty. The system of social assistance and care should be fair and accessible. Righteous to receive the help and care of those who need it most and can make it as easy as possible. The system should encourage both work and responsibility. Each individual is obliged to worry about meeting his life needs, as well as the need for persons who are legally and otherwise obliged to abstain, and only if they are not able to comply with clear unequivocal criteria then these are social assistance and care measures. The system of social assistance and care also includes fees, cash donations and services, care for elderly and powerless persons, mentalally ill adults, children without adequate parental care, persons with disabilities, children and youth with behavioural disorders, children and adults victims of family violence. All of this is carried out through 80 Centers for Social Care with 25 branches, then 67 state homes for older and powerless persons, but also 63 private House of Social Care. Then there are foster families, 2,000 and 587 who provide 5 thousand and 788 users, of which are 2 thousand and 331 children. This set of care should be encouraged, because for users it is more acceptable and humane and for society cheaper, but it should be monitored continuously. One of the objectives of social care reform is deinstitutionalisation where housing of socially endangered persons in a home would be the ultimate solution, and assistance would be provided in their families and homes or the establishment of institutions for living and half-day stay in order to keep others integrated in their environment and I think that this process has already begun. But back to the proposed amendments and additions to the law. It is proposed to abolish the Croatian Institute for Social Work which has not been revived by its work. In the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, I find this move justified, because in fact the Croatian Institute of Social Labour would go, it would be run by a centralized one system, and we need decentralisation, I think we all agreed. However, there has been a change in the structure and division of the ministry, especially in relation to the Centre for Social Care in the field of family and legal protection of children and youth with development disorders, a shared competence has been introduced between the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity. The Ministry of Health and Social Care would carry out self-defense activities, i.e. domestic and legal protection and criminal protection of children and youth with behavioural disorders, and the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity would carry out consultations and other preventive tasks in relation to the same category of users. I have contacted about these amendments and the Social Care Centre and their professional staff, they do not object to these amendments, but certainly the work must be coordinated, that in the work of a particular service, regardless of which ministry they belong, they should be complemented rather than overlapped. Another newspaper that is also proposed to introduce family centres. In accordance with national family policy, and worthy of family as the main focus of individuals and society, the establishment of family centres is promoted by the development of a network of institutions to support the family, encourages the development of community work programmes, volunteer work and the work of citizens' associations, which is very much needed with the purpose of supporting parents, families, children and youth and other socially sensitive groups. Next, the implementation of programme activities aimed at parenting and youth education, as well as the sensitisation of the public for the value of the family, is enhanced. During 2004 and 2005, a contract was signed for the establishment of 7 family consultations at the Social Care Centres, Dubrovnik, Split, Sibenik, Karlovac, Krapina, Koprivnica and Vinkovci. In 2006, it is planned to take over consultations in Zagreb and Rijeka, which are set up in front of the Social Care Centro, as well as the establishment of 5 new ones. The bill regulates that these consultations will be established in 2006 as new institutions of social care, i.e. family centres established by the Republic of Croatia, and the means of work would be provided from the state budget. In Article 80a, point (a) is replaced by the following: It is said that the family centre is established for the area of the county, or the City of Zagreb and that the family centre can be established in the area of the county, i.e. the City of Zagreb, one or more branches. We believe that it is necessary to set up branches in existing centres and they already have set up wards to protect children, marriage, family, perform counselling jobs, so if there were no branches, it would be one step back, because advisory and preventive work should be brought closer to the users and not removed. The truth of article 34 speaks in that sense. We remain open the possibility that local self-government as well as during 2004 and 2005 will be included in the insurance and space and other assistance in the work of the consultant. The 2006 and 2008 plan means 20 county centres and one family centre in the City of Zagreb will employ 132 professional workers, psychologists, defectologist, social worker, lawyers and accountants, and I do not think that this is an increase in the administration, but we really need professional staff in these services as well as in the Social Labour Centres. Article 4 states that the Ministry of Intergenerational Solidarity may conclude a contract with social care institutions or other legal and physical persons to provide assistance and care services to older and powerless persons. And now there is a program of assistance at the home of older people, and this measure is particularly well accepted among the older population, and it is also employed by about a thousand and 350 people, most often women without professional training, not to mention the housekeeper, which is extremely useful and good. However, the same possibility that contracts are concluded also has social care centres, so this area needs to be regulated specifically so that there is no overlapping of rights. We support the changes that give health care professionals the right to pass an expert examination before the examination committee to the Ministry of Health, even though they have done training practice in the homes of social care and in part in health institutions. Also, nurses who have already passed a professional examination in the social care system may access a professional examination within a specified time limit. The possibility of hiring experts from the list of experts to carry out expert supervision of social care homes and other legal and physical persons performing social care activities is also introduced. The provisions on professional and inspection supervision of social care institutions have been improved. These changes are expected to ensure that surveillance is carried out in accordance with the newly established organisation in the ministry's area. We suggest that the applicant review whether or not to appoint inspectors, because let's just say the board of directors at the Social Care Centres is appointed, so it might not be appropriate for the inspectors to just deploy. Then, as inspectors, a person with 4 years of employment in the profession is appointed, of which at least 1 year of social care activity and passed a state-of-the-art exam. For the Chief Inspector, these conditions are eight years of working hours in the profession and 1 year again for social care activities. We think that this experience of social care activity is too little, because let's just say a training internship at the Social Services Centres lasts 20 months, so it would turn out that the minister who's assigned has less training than one trainee. We consider it particularly useful to make it more clear how an adult can settle the price of accommodation with his or her property, or what the contract should contain, which should contribute to the quality of application of this standard in practice, but also to reduce potential abuses. All of these will contribute to effective protection, especially sensitive groups of our society, and since the law in the first reading is I believe that the proponent will take into consideration the comments made in this debate and the Croatian Democratic Community club means it supports the proposed law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46558	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46559	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Lalic who said this law is in line with national family policy. Completely incorrect, this law is a difficult falsification of national family policy, the only thing that is inside is exactly the prescribed titles from the national family policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46560	Second correction, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46561	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect quote of a colleague who says that the budget separation shows that Croatia is a social state. That's just not true. Only separation does not show colleagues that we are a social state, the social state needs to create a system in which we really need social assistance most. We don't have such a system and that's why we're not a social state, and what we're singled out might in some cases not want to believe in the biggest cases that it's just... Let us prove our sociality by building a righteous system so that those who are most needy, those who are poor, who are powerless, and who are sick can truly get out of this isolation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we don't have these criteria, and in practice, there's often a opposite of what you wanted really hard... Because our economy does not allow for greater separations, we can do little to set aside justly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then we're a social state.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46562	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46563	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. They say that when a law is changed, especially when it comes to the field of social care or social work, then for the first year, two, the work of extensive research, then slowly prepares the professional bases, and then goes to pilot projects, and choose the environments, etc. And to make a difference, it takes 10 years. Now, in a young Croatian state, of course, we were brought into a situation in the early 1990s that we could not afford a serious studio, a serious, systematic system work to prepare the law and that a lot of things were done as quickly as possible and could at a certain point. And that's for me to understand. To understand is to make mistakes, not to see something, to get something out of the sleeve. For 15 years, however, we have existed as a state. In 2000, in the face of the need for refultic projects in the field of labour, social policy, the social security system we said O.K., for a time behind us, let's now do what we do to a modern, orderly, social state. We have implemented a pension reform which has experienced very positive assessments everywhere. It is taken as a model of well-prepared reform of the pension system in transition countries, we did it relatively quickly with not too much cost with a high level of social consensus in society, without earthquakes. We've reformed labour legislation, labour markets. There were constant resistances, so I'd say even folklore opposition and resistance, for example, the union, which I'm listening to yesterday, don't touch the Labour Act, it's the most labor law in Europe. Because, if you like to say it now, here you are putting down the level of social rights, today the unions defend it as a good, balanced law that gives employers etc. The possibilities. I mention these two successful reforms because of one which, unfortunately, we have not been able to make exclusively in our intention not to make a mistake, not to make a mistake. In 2001, therefore, with a constant delay of one year thanks to the donations of Great Britain and Japan, we were able to form 7 expert teams composed of international experts and all experts, relevant experts in Croatia, to prepare a reform of the welfare system. So I am sure that no reform in this country is better, better quality and more professionally prepared than reforming the social care system. My government colleagues said more when you're leaving. We said better a little later, but to be thoroughly prepared to move us to discretion from political, volunteering and not know all the approaches, that in one extremely sensitive system such as the social care system did not make a mistake, because it was thousands, millions of users. And we don't have the right to play reformers here and potentially harm our fellow citizens with our own moves. And when that expert group is exactly subordinated to dynamics, those 7 groups when they did, prepared etc. The entire reform system, and when we were to move into its implementation, took place in 2003. I am convinced that in fact absolutely no one can question what has been prepared, because that is what the profession has prepared. It wasn't prepared by the minister, it wasn't prepared by the minister. Nor did I consider myself competent to determine or anyone in politics, we have defined by any means the objectives, in accordance with the highest European standards and norms. It didn't occur to me that someone would be so unwise that what they had done, prepared immediately, didn't begin to implement it, it was unimaginable to me. In order for someone to go and spoil it like that for two years in a completely anonymous, alienated, broken and destroyed system for two years. We have a minister who's completely incompetent, he doesn't know anything, and why he should know, he's not in professional terms competent, he's politically qualified because he's got a mandate, he doesn't know about it, and I doubt he's too interested in it. Is there a huge health system that requires reform, expensive, and who is left to worry about the welfare system? Also the secretary of state who doesn't know anything about it. And why would he? Besides, she, even though it would be good if it wasn't for political functions, she knew it. According to my professional training, I have no intention of offending you because your colleague is certainly professional and competent in another area. Why would I bring that up? So because we were preparing this reform, when we set up the Law on, the Department of Social Work held a debate on 5, 6 months 2002, we held a debate in all our institutions, at the Faculty of Social Work, at a study on psychology, that defecology, all and one professional relevant and serious man we invited to help us prepare the strategy and reform project of the social care system. Everyone who knew something was invited, we got hundreds, hundreds of views, opinion of professional associations, social workers, lawyers, psychologists, defectologists, unions. Professional associations, specifically all of them advocated the establishment of a institute within the reconstruction of the ministry at the time, which, by the way, was preceded by certification for ISO 9001, the first and only ministry. So one well-organized system has been preparing him for four years, which has been broken in parades and the whole system has been broken down not by what the administration has broken through these ministries that were later established. The purpose of the introduction of this institution was to distinguish business and decision-making levels that would only include setting a strategy, goals, policy setting, legislative normisation, supervision of the structure, and there is the ministry. Second level, the level of governance that should have been the social service. It includes resource planning, process standardisation development, implementation organisation, resource allocation, implementation control, etc. and the level of implementation is the planning of various forms, ways of implementing social care, first-degree procedure, medical, field, general etc. and these are our social care centers, which would be much better to call social work centres. For some reason, the term of social work was abandoned, and they were naturally doing social work, not just social care. This means that they also had family legal protection, etc. All this stuff that's now going to be done in family centers. We have this in the social work centres, which, by the way, were created in socialism and were highly rated by people who deal with social policy as a good basis for implementing and implementing social work and social policy in one country. So we had one good institutional assumption. So what happens now? Here comes the Ministry today with a request for this office to be abolished. It comes with a promise that we'll get a new law. I really do now until I know what this is replaced by, what makes up for, I can't accept this, because this is a new contribution to entropy and system collapse. It's hard to raise your hand for that. If we had received the concept, even if it were something else from what the profession gave, and I doubt that the profession, the same profession, the same experts could offer some radically different concept then I would see what the point is or we could see what it is to introduce a family centre instead of not knowing, or why it is being isolated, why it provides so much money instead of strengthening existing centres for social work. There's no... Centralization or decentralisation that was taken here as an alibi possible for these changes has absolutely nothing to do with this. [[You don't understand.]] Tell me who's gonna take care of what's supposed to be the office's functions in this country. Data processing, information at the level of the entire system, so neither the one in Benkovec nor the one in Požega can do it. The whole system needs to be processed. There is a need for a net analysis, professional bases, someone to evaluate these measures, someone to prepare a proposal to improve their activities. Well, it won't be the secretary of state. Who's gonna do that? And six lawyers or ministry officials, so they're not educated for it. Starts a programme of education, concepts of social programs, laws, etc. Gentlemen, we cannot support this proposal as a SDP club because in no way is it tied to any strategy, it is only a step and this is the fundamental consequence of the destruction of the social security system as we can see it from what we have obtained as an explanation at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46564	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46565	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Vidovic said the welfare system is estranged and scrawny, that the minister knows nothing about social care and neither does the secretary of state. It's nice to think of yourself as the only competent person who knows something, but it's just not true. The system is neither scrawny nor alienated, it is a humiliation to all employees who work in welfare centres and are committed to doing their job, and the minister and secretary of state know and have co-workers who know the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46566	Second correction, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46567	Well, Mr. President... /The speaker has been turned off and re-enabled./... counterpart Vidovic said in his statement that the minister is not competent and neither is the secretary of state competent to implement this reform, which is incorrect. Well, they're not the only ones doing the reform. They've included professional people, and you don't think that's why the system of social care sucks. Well, Mr. Vidic, you're not exactly what you should be doing. You were and you were a professor, so for the work you were doing while you were Minister right now at this pay phone, you've done quite a bit of praise.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46568	Thank you. HSP club, a respected representative of Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46569	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that the announced amendments and additions to the Social Security Act for a moment were naively thought that it was about the changes that would enter into the very essence of reforming the social security system, that is, its basic part, social care. I thought this was the right time for a government demonstration of her social sensitivity and determination. It all pointed out that perhaps the time has come to begin the concrete implementation of the government's pre-accession economic programme in 2005-2007 and the criteria of which it is important to implement a complex reform of the social care system as an composition that plays a very important role in countering poverty, as well as to mitigate its consequences. With regard to the fight against poverty, Croatia is still in the adjustment phase to the European and world standards on which such systems rest. By 1998, it was not possible to statistically display poverty levels in Croatia, and thus to develop a quality strategy to fight it. Today on statistics, the situation is far more positive, and further development of social statistics Croatia should have the data necessary for the integration and harmonisation of research with the countries of the European Union. But statistics don't reduce poverty. The aforementioned government pre-accession programme states that relative indicators of poverty in Croatia do not differ significantly from the indicators of poverty in the Member States and candidate countries in the European Union, but although the rate of poverty of 18% is considered a low level of poverty for Croatia, it still means that as many as 800,000 citizens live below the poverty line, and without social transfers and pensions 40% of Croatian citizens would be at risk of poverty. All of these data are already in the pre-accession economic programme, which contributes to the government, i.e. its serious approach to the problem. So many conditions for fighting poverty have been created. The family ministry and defenders and intergenerational solidarity have brought national family policy. The latest amendments to the Social Care Act have launched decentralisation of the system, improving cooperation with NGOs in the field of humanitarian action. A programme against poverty and social exclusion has been adopted, a process of nationalisation and information of the system has been launched, and as part of the reform project of the social care system with the World Bank, the emphasis is also placed on raising the educational level of employees in the social care system such as postgraduate studies, as well as on continuing education. With all this in mind, I can't help but feel disappointed with these amendments to the Social Care Act, and not because they and the Priors are bad, but rather because of administrative maneuvers in the expectation of real capture in the face of social security problems. Although I have no doubt that the government and the involved ministries have the best intentions to carry out reforms in the social care system, the question arises, will these administrative maneuvers bring significant or any shifts? These changes do not talk about the problem of the system, they do not talk about how to fight poverty, about helping socially endangered layers, or about family and protecting children. These amendments are addressed exclusively to the administration, wanting to define within institutional relations as a presumption of future action. Of course, the criteria must exist, the rules must be respected. However, I must express concern that a new procedure regarding the jurisdiction of the institutions is being easily approached without the question of what happened to the last procedure. The first thing that enters the eyes as a basic issue that is being regulated by these changes is the abolition of the Croatian Institute for Social Labour. Previous amendments to the Social Care Act in June 2003 established the Institute as a public institution whose task was to provide social services and to monitor the conditions for obtaining them and the minimum standard provided by the State, up to expert supervision of the provision of these services. After more than 2 years, the Institute has not started working, so it is perfectly logical for the promoter to abolish that institution and try something else. Of course, that something that doesn't work should be abolished, but I would also like to think that we, as Parliament's representatives, who founded it by passing the law deserve a concrete explanation why the Institute didn't come into practice. It's not just a matter of liability for law-abiding, it's about learning from mistakes. Unless we understand the reasons for the failure of the first administrative maneuver, how we can be sure that it will not happen again with the family centres whose establishment is proposed by these changes. The proposal speaks of the sharing of competence between the Ministry of Family from one side and the Ministry of Social Welfare on the other. Such distribution is conditional upon the establishment of family centres, i.e. the sharing of jobs of current social care centres to preventive, advisory and family centres. Those jobs that are trying to alleviate the state of social danger. I welcome clear sections because they are necessary for the efficient functioning of the system. In family centres, 6 to 7 employees, defectologists, psychologists, social worker and lawyer work in each county. The director shall be appointed by the Minister on the basis of a public tender. The status of nurses in welfare institutions is harmonised. The composition of the Board of Directors of the Centre for Social Care has been amended, etc. These are all in principle good solutions, but above all assumptions are made and the basic purpose of the system. True, in the loan agreement of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is on the agenda of this session, one of the main components of development is strengthening the management and staff infrastructure of the social care system. Finally, I must point out, regardless of the critical tone of my move, how the HSP Club will still support this proposal because it is in line with the project of reforming the social care system on the basis of which we receive the loan from the International Bank. The provisions legally do not bring any harm, but neither do any good. These provisions are a dead letter on paper unless there is a clear strategy and a good will to deal with the real problems of the welfare system. I'm afraid we're re-entering administrative reorganisations without making a precise projection of the work of these newly established bodies and that in a few years we're going to discuss the abolition of the institutions that we've established, and that no one will even wonder why that happened. Never mind, we'll start new ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46570	Please. Respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, IDS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46571	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The draft law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act should be one of the most important laws. Even more than that, of course, this is one law that was delivered to us on benches in an emergency procedure. Come on, we managed not to have an emergency procedure, but the real law and systematic social care reform of this law has nothing to do with it. Also, since the announced decentralisation, there's nothing. The abolition of the Republic Institute for Social Work is also questionable, and a new institution is being introduced, the Family Centre. It should be insisted, once the Social Care Act has already been amended, that a new law be made indicating all kinds of reforms and all alignments with the European Union, as well as the deadlines to be carried out. Decentralisation can mean, in addition to pathology and problems, fiscal decentralisation which will apply responsibility and decision-making to regional and local self-government. In addition to abolishing the Institute and all its functions are transferred to the Family Centre, following the fact that family centres will be under the authority of several ministries will result in them being everyone's and nobody's. That in part there is a large centralisation we can read from this Law, not as the secretary of state spoke about decentralisation in her opening statement. I'm just going to read you a few articles from the law itself. Article 80, here in these articles we can see what ministers or ministers can do, so we can consider them supermen or "superwoman" or "women". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The conditions regarding the space, equipment and number of necessary professional and other workers of the Family Centre and the branch as terms and methods of achieving the services of the family centre will be prescribed by the minister responsible for the family. The head of the Family Centre appoints a minister responsible for the family, based on a public tender." I wonder why not the administrative council. The head of the Family Center is again resolved by the minister. The Statute of the Family Centre shall be adopted by the Director, with the prior consent of the Ministry of Family Affairs. Why doesn't he bring in a verification of a representative body like kindergartens or schools? The head of the branch appoints and resolves the Director of the Family Centre again with the previous consent of the minister. The content and method of keeping records and documentation and deadlines for delivering the report shall be the responsible minister for the family. The amount of compensation for the family in view of the age and needs of the users shall be determined by the minister. The content of the professional training programme and the selection process of education projects to be financed by the state budget, as well as the annual professional training programme for social care professionals, is again brought by the minister. The way in which professional supervision is carried out and its contents will be prescribed by the minister responsible for social care affairs and by the minister responsible for the family. Professional surveillance can be carried out by experts from the list of experts brought back by the minister. So let's go so far that the contents and forms of the inspector's card that conducts inspection and supervision of professional work are again prescribed by the minister. Home service prices are brought back by the minister. Article 29 of the Institute replaces the words of the Ministry of Social Affairs, i.e. the conduct of tenders, contracting and service prices. So everything about the center itself is actually going to be done by the ministry or the minister. Just because here is a systematic centralization we in IDS see this law as truly rigid centralization and no matter what goes into the second reading we can't support it. Perhaps the very intensity of this family center is good, but what is related to this law in our opinion is not good. The same question arises why the Croatian Institute for Social Work has not been revived so far. Maybe this government didn't even want to live. We can say that now, instead of the institution, we have a center, it's not a neck, it's a neck. Two years ago, when the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare fusiond in our opinion, it was not a good move, let alone when it was added to it by the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, and as they agree with the many interrelations of who is responsible for which time passes and problems are not solved. The biggest problem, of course, is in the social care segment: money, working conditions and powers. As far as money is concerned, fiscal decentralisation must be the basis for any change in the system. The conditions under which social workers work are extremely bad, one thing is that there are few, and the other is that at the level are still rubbers and pencils, and computers are "space shuttle" or something really unattainable for them. Local self-government units go out to meet them, so they get computers and resources to work for them. If we are talking about further education of social workers, psychologists, educators and medical staff, it should be imperative for us to operate well, but of course it does not give us through the form that the minister determines the way of education but in 2004 a new programme of study, social work consisting of a four-year pre-school study of social work and a one-year graduate study of social work and social policy was adopted in line with the Bologna Process. In the framework of the reform, it was taken into account that the social workers' education process ensures a well-known knowledge of the wider social processes and ways of resolving them, as well as a good knowledge of the social intervention technique. The international community has high expectations for social work. A document of the Council of Europe’s recommendations on social workers, which clearly states that social tensions can be expected during the period of globalisation of current political and social changes, additional pressures on a family that contributes to non-compliance with individuals, families and groups. It is the social workers and prevention and resolution of these problems that contribute to improving social cohesion. In the opinion of the Council of Europe, social work is an investment in the future well-being of Europe. Secondly, as regards the social care system in Croatia, we know that they operate in a way of subsidiarity, decentralisation and transfer, but in this case only problems in lower forms of government and solidarity through a complex network of services and institutions. In addition to the war, Croatia went through the transition process, economic and social changes result in social separation, a large number of unemployed, relatively low pensions and social benefits, and a large number of pensioners. As far as the powers are concerned, we see that through this bill, how much seriousness and importance is given to local levels, we are free to say nothing. Everything is concentrated in the ministries, it becomes a can for everyone, not contacting the terrain, but solving the problems from the chair in a way that is dealing with objects, not people. And to conclude in the end, given all of this, changes are necessary in this strong centralised social care system as it exists today. The reform of the Social Care Act should change the institutional framework within which a gradual decentralisation of social care should take place, as we can also in some way give recognition to social workers who have made up for the lack of money by their great effort and efforts. We propose to withdraw this proposal, to redefine the social care strategy, i.e. to implement a systematic reform, and above all to implement the decentralisation of money and powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46572	Thank you. The HSS club, the respected representative of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46573	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the fifth amendments and additions to the Social Care Act adopted in 1997. We at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party represent the view that the welfare system must be adapted to the needs of citizens, but also to the material opportunities of the state. That is why, even in the adoption of the amendments in 2003, we pointed out the need for the adoption of a new law that would establish a system of social care that would rest on a completely different philosophy, a philosophy that the Nobel and the greatest fighter for the interests of poor Mother Teresa had said and elaborated in a simple and understandable sentence "do not give the hungry fish, give him the hook and learn to hunt". Despite the data that clearly point to a continuation of the social decomposition process in which the rich are increasingly rich and the poor are increasingly poor, that the medium layer is gone, and its remains disappear despite the fact that material opportunities are not such that they would make every poor person and the fact that the means of caring for the most vulnerable do not often come to the most needed. The government of the Republic of Croatia is not proposing a new Social Care Act that would change the system, but is proposing the fifth amendments and additions, in the original proposal on an urgent procedure. At the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, we opposed the urgent procedure for the purpose of discussing the subject matter in detail and trying to find the best possible solutions in the current situation, and the explanation, I quote: "It is proposed that a new law be adopted by emergency procedure so that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity can form family centres" on the part of the Rules of Procedure unfounded. So for two years, the ministry has had enough time to discuss their vision of improvements and the development of a network of family support institutions in the regular procedure. And it is good that our opinion and our opposition have finally been accepted and the proposal is now in the ordinary procedure. So in Croatia, we in the peasant party believe that, instead of amending five amendments and supplementing, we need a new law that would adapt the welfare system to the needs of citizens and material opportunities of the state, which states that the Constitution requires such a system of social care that will guarantee special care for the sick, powerless and abandoned. Such a system of social care could monitor the country's material opportunities. Under the existing conditions, there is greater separation for social care than the existing one we do not think is possible. By looking at and listening to the problems of the needy, we will conclude that the distribution of the tormented means is not fair. The impression is that the one who is closer to the fire and the one who adapts faster and more fluently to the legal conditions and achieves so-called. Your right. It is generally known that various forms of social assistance and compensation are also obtained by, for example, self-invited singles without receiving or insufficient income on the basis of their own statement that they are not under criminal and material responsibility to live in isolated households. Reality is very different. I don't get it. I don't get it. singles live in the same household with their economically very powerful descendants to whom they transferred all their properties as well as the higher-value movables that are registered in different registers. Since there is not enough resources left without help, those who have no income or offspring, who have less assets but who are unable to work and cannot do so. Most of the time, they can't even get to the welfare center, let alone social assistance. Following its material possibilities, the Republic of Croatia is not able to give each of the necessary fish, and this is why philosophy and the system must be changed to give a hook instead of a fish and learn how to hunt it. In such a system, a workable, unemployed person cannot be a social assistance user. It is his responsibility to enable the State to grant social assistance for the so-called so-called “social aid”. Public service. In doing so, we must walk away from the belief that no job is humiliating and even less embarrassing. Obviously, we lack the political will to establish a system whereby one who is healthy and working without work can not get a single drop of taxpayers. One Sweden that is a symbol of the social state for us does not give its unemployed citizens unconditional social assistance. It is conditioned by certain work obligations from the night-creation of hospitals, schools, institutions until the tour and assistance of the elderly, the sick, the powerless and the abandoned. Instead of reforming the system, it resorts to changes aimed at eliminating the Croatian Institute of Social Care, introducing and proposing the fully unclear functioning of the family centre and sharing competences in the sphere of social responsibility between the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. As an explanation and justification for the abolition of the Croatian Institute, the applicant states. Since the Law amending the Law on Social Welfare has been in force for more than two years, its abolition in the given circumstances is a valid and acceptable solution. So, not a word about the inexcusability of existence, about the failed concept of its establishment. So we, as representatives of the people, ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia why the Institute did not bring it back to life in practice. Its role and jurisdiction are clearly defined by law. Among other things, the Institute should carry out internal control of the use of funds in welfare institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Croatia and other social care institutions and are co-financed from the state budget. It should carry out capital investment, investment and investment maintenance activities in welfare institutions established by the Republic of Croatia, etc. In short, the role of the management institution includes resource planning, development and normisation of the process, organisation of implementation, supply and distribution of resources, and monitoring of implementation. Therefore, the aim of the establishment was to ensure responsibility for achieving the maximum effectiveness of the social care system. How interested the government is in achieving maximum efficiency shows that it has done nothing for two years to bring the law into practice. When you don't know how to do this, then it's really the easiest thing to do is to shut down and let the system continue to function uncontrollably. That's the real point and the purpose of abolishing it. We oppose such a relationship with a system that must be just and effective. Furthermore, the promoter says one of the main consequences that would result from these amendments and additions to the law is that jobs in the social care system are limited to jobs related to preventive and advisory work and to jobs related to mitigation, reduction of cause and state of social hazard. What the Proposer meant to say was completely unknown not only to us but also to the Proposer because there is no detailed explanation in the introduction and neither in the amendment proposal. So the law prescribes the establishment of family centers. The amended article of the 79th Law states that social care institutions, the family center and the welfare center, the home of social care, and the care center. The institutions shall be entered in the Register of the Institute of Social Care. The changes show that there are actually going to be two importers. One in which social care centres, social care homes, and relief and care centers are enrolled. The register is run by the ministry responsible for social care affairs. In another register are registered family centers and run by the Ministry of the Family. If so, the law should make it clear and write it, not as it is in Article 7. What the family centers are going to do is completely unclear. The law says it performs the tasks of advisory and preventive work and other professional jobs relating to marriage, child rearing, adoption, disability problems, raising the quality of life of children, youth and family, organising child learning, accommodation in preschool institutions, etc. Theoretically understandable but translated into practice completely inapplicable. And if seen from the point of view of counselling, understandably. Does this mean that future child adoption jobs will be run by family centers. If so, it should be fully worked out throughout the law. With this undeveloped system, there is a overlap of jurisdiction and complete confusion that can only work one thing and that is a general mess and confusion. It's unclearly regulated and the way it's set up. It is founded by the Ministry of the Family, and co-founder can be a municipality, city and county, but we don't know how. As ordered by the minister, that's what the law says. The power and awareness of the minister is also reflected in the appointment of the director appointed by the minister and assessed that he has the appropriate knowledge of advisory and therapeutic work. It gives consent to both the statutes and the appointment of the head of the branch. So, the co-founder may be county and city, but these co-founders who theoretically can possibly have a bigger stake in these centers have no influence on the management of these family centers. A provision would be simpler in the law, which reads as follows: "Family centres with the structure and powers of the minister's regulation are being established." Because actually when we look at the law, it all comes down to it, and to the legislative body, this Croatian Parliament that the law is to be passed is actually proposed by an unknown who just needs to raise his hand. And unlike our colleagues from HSP, since we've given such a critical reference to this law, we can't support it. We can't support him because we think he's completely missed. Family centres do, because they are in line with the national family policy strategy, but family centres that would be regulated by private law rather than violently incorporated into the Social Care Act in the way it is proposed. Well, we heard the secretary of state who said that a group was established to build a law on family centers. For these two years, not only was there enough time to establish a working group, but we could have here today a proposal of the Family Centres Act that would really develop and implement the policies and philosophy of the national family policy strategy. And of course, in that case, there would be plenty of time for the end of the term of office and for politics, not just a declarative representation. Yes, we imitate that policy that was drawn through the national strategy in 2002 and accepted in this House, but when it comes to implementation, we are looking for an alibi for our own incompetence and our own ignorance. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party club cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46574	Thank you. At 10.51, the time for the application for a 10-minute debate was up on this agenda point. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46575	... In her presentation, counterpart Lalić said that the role and activity of the family centre is completely unclear, which is not true. [[Specially enabled.]] In Article 80b, point (b) is replaced by the following: It is taxingly listed everything that this family center will perform.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46576	Second correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46577	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting... the speaker has been disfellowshipped. The first allegation refers to the fact, she said the minister would regulate it by regulation. Ministers cannot make regulations. Regulations as a sublegal act may only be adopted by the Government, and ministers shall adopt regulations, guidelines and decisions. The second is an incorrect allegation, related to the position of the HSP club, the HSP club supports this law because it is about first reading, not more about the emergency procedure as proposed in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46578	State Secretary Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46579	Well, I'd like ladies and gentlemen to just explain some of the things that have been expressed in club attitudes. When we spoke on behalf of Mr. Jozo Radoš on behalf of the HNS club about the abolition of the welfare center, I think there was a misunderstanding. There's no social care centers being abolished here. Here is the proposal to abolish the Croatian Institute for Social Labour, which is an entirely different institution. Social care centres are institutions with public authority. Therefore, there is no decommissioning of the center. There are, as we know, 80 and 24 branches. Therefore, no centers here are abolished. Therefore, it has been said that the former government has passed one law and one programme and one reform project and that the fact is that it is shown here and there is no continuity. On the contrary, we have respected, i.e. in the new Law, the axis of social care comes from the very recommendation that has been made, and that is exactly what Mr. Vidovic said, made by experts in 7 groups. However, these 7-group experts, including international and further members, are now members of the new reform working group. And the reform, as you know, has 3 components and participate in the component of these reforms, i.e. we adopted the parts and most of these recommendations except for the abolition, except that we disagreed, and we abolish the Croatian Institute for Social Work. It does not mean, as Mr Vidovic said, that those powers should be abolished, or what social work should have done. We only abolish the organisation as such because what was scheduled to do by the Croatian Institute for Social Work, we will during this reform for which you will now later on for this loan. We predict that this very center, the county center, will it be called the County Centre for Social Care or perhaps the County Centre for Social Work, it is still in discussion, but it will take over most of the powers that the Croatian Institute for Social Work had. Therefore, regardless of the welfare centres that exist now. So, compared to the IDS lady, the IDS representative, there was no intensity to amend and supplement these laws or decentralisation, nor was the intensity of what she mentioned. We have just said that the amendments and additions of this law are, they go now because of the abolition of the Croatian Institute, because it is currently, as if it did not live, it bothers the Ministry of Decisions which are in power, in the current law in the jurisdiction of the Institute and we have said very clearly that the legal framework for the establishment of family centres. So, we didn't talk here that this law has an amendment and an addition to the law in fact, and it offers reform and offers decentralisation, but we said we were doing it in the context of a social care reform that was supported by the World Bank's loan and we're going to now, and it's going to go to a new law. Allow me, as Mr. Representative of the SDP Club said, it is clear that, why are now changing and supplementing, and why not the new law. So because, unfortunately, this project that we have in social care reform with the World Bank, or credit, unfortunately came just now and actually signed it recently. Therefore, it would be unserious to do a new law, and in the World Reform project, we have three pilot projects in which we can examine everything we want to confirm, whether it is better or worse. So you will have the opportunity, not just you, but the entire Croatian public and waist through the pilot... all we want to do, round tables, public debates, see when something is piloted whether this is better or worse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, we will come to a conclusion that we will translate into law. So, we will offer the thesis for a new labour group law to be piloted through social care reform and pilots to be held in Zadar, Split and Vinkovci, so everything is transparent and clear and the result will be the new Social Care Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46580	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46581	I am correcting Mrs Nikolic's incorrect allegations that this is not about the abolition of the social care centre. It's about abolishing the center, and at a small door, it's about slowly euthanizing the center, because this is how the law transfers some of their powers to the family centers. The second part of the power will be transferred when the family courts, i.e. the family problem departments in courts, and eventually the centres will remain a mere administration of whether someone will receive 2 or 3 metres of wood.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46582	A respected representative of Gordana Sobol, also a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46583	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State has now, and earlier in her address, said that the Croatian Institute for Social Work has not come to life and that it bothers the ministries. It's just not true. It's not even true he didn't come back to life and get in the way. How can something not come to life and bother that it's never been founded at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46584	Third correction, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46585	Well, very similar. Mrs. Secretary has never told anyone here that his body, let the institution bother him. She said the ministry is being disturbed by the Croatian Institute and should therefore be removed. No, exactly the opposite. The Bureau is troubled by the negligence and carelessness and intricacies of the ministry itself, which bothers the institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46586	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46587	Thank you very much. Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I don't really know why the new government thinks it must always start over like there was nothing before. It's a classic example of that right here. Don't try to improve something, fix it where it's thought it's supposed to be fixed, but what's created so far collapses. The boggers will now line up the ground, and it says we're going to start building that building later. And when, and how, and where, and with whom, and with what, there's no answer. This bill of law is a typical example of spilling from hollow to empty. The law established an institution. Why? Why did it go to law enforcement? So that not the ministry officials do not deal with what they do not know, they do what is not their business but to leave the professional social care business to the experts. You can't look, the minister or the secretary of state solve specific cases from the social domain, provide social services. It's not their job. To perform and even to carry out professional supervision. First because they are not professional, that's what my colleague Vidovic wanted to say. They are politicians, but they don't necessarily have to be professional. And that's why the Bureau was established to let the professional work run its course. And what does politics have to do with it? Well, politics should be concerned with developing a social care strategy, developing a family protection strategy, it's a political job. First of all, stupidity was done when the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare was abolished. Look at the country where we have so many unemployed and so many social cases we've abolished the Ministry of Labour and Social Care and then pulled it into three ministries. Now it took two years for those clerks to first find their offices in those three ministries, so they can find the study there, so they can settle down, so someone can tell them who their boss is, so that their boss can tell them what their job is, so they can even take the job. It's been two years since they started doing anything. The establishment of the institute was a good job, and now he's abolishing himself without anyone telling me why he's abolishing himself. There is neither in the proposal nor in the context of this bill, nor in the opening speech of the State Secretary there is any reason why the Institute is abolished but the Office is said to be abolished because it has not been revived. Well, good people, dear, so who's to blame for not coming back to life? So was it expected that the institute itself might live, that it would grow like a seed plant because the seed was placed in the ground? Well, the government was supposed to do that for the Bureau to come to life. She was supposed to name the head man, not for two years. And now the government that didn't want the Institute to live, the great justification for the termination of the institute, didn't come to life. It's like you don't give a man a meal, you don't give him lunch, and then after someone asks you why you didn't give him lunch, says the institution didn't liven up, no one recorded the need. Two years, so it wasn't doing anything. Now, two years later, there's this kind of creamy law that doesn't show anything at all. You can't see any purpose, no purpose, no reason to pass this law. What's the only thing that matters here? The only thing that matters is to cancel the office and start the family centers. That's all that matters. But God's people, so the family center office has nothing to do with it. The jobs that the Bureau needs to do have absolutely nothing to do with the jobs that family centres can do. Well, I have no objection to the establishment of family centers, so let family centers be established and they can peacefully exist at the office because they do business but they're completely different. That's where the pears and apples come in. What does it matter, for example, to enroll children in preschool institutions and solve difficult social cases? It has absolutely nothing to do with each other. I don't know, marriage counseling. Marriage counseling was neither when it was able to save any marriage, even if it was, come on, it's kind of a job. It's kind of a job. And the whole 15th kind of work is taking care of those who have nothing to live on, have nothing to eat, have no place to live, have no roof over their heads, have no business, have no one and have nothing. And these two jobs, the marriage counsellor's on enrollment in child enrolment in preschool institutions and care about these most difficult social cases, so they can't do the same people. I can't. So you don't even know what your family centers are going to do, you don't even know where they're going to work. Have you asked the State Secretary if there's room for them at all? So there's social care centers, now there's some space to separate, there's a room to find, there's a table to find again, there's another phone to be found where they're going to settle in. Now we need to reroute those people from downtown and tell you now you're not working at the welfare center, you're working at the family center. While it is now, it is now, it is not over either. We need to bring in the sublegals. Competitions should be held for the directors of these new centres, so the directors must find their associates. You still don't know what it's going to look like together because we don't have a whole series of sublegal acts, and what are we going to do now? Now two more years, the system will deal with itself. First, it took him two years to break up this one ministry and place it at 3:00, and now two more years to deal with the fact that he's established those centers, that these centers are now coming to life. And what happens after two years? Last term. Last term, done. What were we doing? Nothing. In that regard, how concerned she was about the social threats, nothing. I wonder who's important here. Are there important social cases here, or is the government a major form of the ministry? I think the government is the most important form of the ministry? Social cases wait until the government remembers, until they agree, until they organise themselves, until they reorganize. Let them wait, never mind. It doesn't matter. Nobody deals with them anyway. So, give the secretary of state, be smart. Be smart and withdraw this proposal. Don't do more damage to the system than is necessary in view of the quality of this government. We don't hope too much, but don't do any more damage than necessary. Let that Bureau go, let him live, name the man in charge. Bring it, submit the Family Centers Act. We'll take it in the air, but write down what it's going to do, what it's going to do, separate the pears and apples, work logically in the system. Not only is this system logical, but it has to be dealt with by the most vulnerable. In their interest you commit to finally doing your job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46588	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46589	Dear Mr. President, Honorable colleague Stazic said, "Unfortunately, this government thinks everything should start from the beginning of it." I'm correcting, so not that it is, she thinks only this power is what the former government thought, and that's what she did. And that's why we're where we are. Another incorrect allegation, this Law should have been brought into line with the Law on the Establishment of Ministrys and Central Authorities of the State Administration before. In this, even the government acts in lateness, not that it should not have submitted this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46590	Thank you. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh, second correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46591	Your Honor, Mr. President. Amongst a series of incorrect allegations made by fellow Stazic, I would only look back at one. Where he says the explanation for the abolition of the Institute "has not brought him back to life". It's not an explanation so I don't know where you read it, but it's an explanation that there are preconditions for decentralisation of the social care system and for regional development of the social care system. It's true, by establishing an institution, we're creating a double institution for the Ministry of Social Welfare.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46592	And respected representative Ruža Lelic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46593	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Stazic said that family centres do not even know where they will work and what will happen to them. And I actually have to remind myself of the situation that we have already established counselling sites in 7 cities and in Zagreb and Rijeka, meaning 9. And that these counselling centres will move to new institutions that will be called family centers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46594	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46595	Thank you, Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, our colleague Nenad Stazic spoke to you, Madam Secretary of State, to withdraw this in the name of wisdom and intelligence, social sensitivity, this bill. It is certain that you do not have those powers, even though it would indeed be wise. Because you see that this law works then you wouldn't be here, but you would sit, neither would Neven Ljubicic, our minister, but would be sitting with the Deputy Prime Minister of Jadranka Kosor. But she's not here today. You have to defend something that's indefensible. But tomorrow when problems arise, then they will be said "e, we have set up centres there for some family". And so the social problems, the accumulated socialities, there's some kind of institution, I don't know who she's gonna bring back and what she's gonna be like. So we brought this. So no one asks you, and no one asks you what you didn't bring or didn't bring. Anyway, is the system working or not working? Now, the functioning of the system and the proposal for this law have been addressed to a whole series of critics, including in the name of clubs. And even a club that speaks, HSP, that will support this Law, but it gives it serious criticism because nothing brings good, but it will be harmful. Well, if that were the case, we'd support it. But this cannot be supported because this bill is dangerous. And there were such proposals, which later became the form of the law where the members of the government called themselves the Parliament. It's not our fault, the Parliament's making laws. But here there will be a personal, individual responsibility for those who forced their majority, you cannot vote for this bill. Why? Because the system will collapse. This is a dangerous experiment over the very sensitive, most sensitive population, which unfortunately, the social booms in Croatia. This is where Croatia was started. Where tasks and centres and family centers will have a great deal of work to do. Therefore, experiments, as far as I know, in the Republic of Croatia on living people, at least without their consent, are prohibited. But you see what's gone wrong from the beginning can't end well. It was already known by the government's ascension that reduced the number of ministries. So then we have the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity and health care and social care. Well, it makes sense that family and social care are the concepts that must be under one cap. It can't be in two ministries. And we see now and in the proposal of this law exhibitionism how to get to it. And there's no real solution. This will create huge difficulties in practice. Well, since you have two ministries here, and since you're tearing down the office, the Croatian Institute, why didn't you then invite the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Defence and then make it a general mess in action? This argument is outrageous. We're terminating the institution because it didn't revive. And it even bothers me. There have already been some remarks said here, indeed. It's like a mother has babies, doesn't feed him and what? He's dying. It didn't come back to life. So who's responsible for why it didn't come back to life. Well, this is where they resign because it didn't revive, and it doesn't punish an empty building, an institution. The question of responsibility here is dramatically neglected in this government. It's something you don't discuss. That's why some imaginary institutions are guilty and we better hide, if we can't hide behind a body because there's no body here in the Croatian Institute, then hide behind a building. We're gonna cancel the jump tomorrow because he didn't come back to life? And why didn't he revive? Because the executive authority, the police, is still not giving him an ordinary police officer there. Are we going to lift the dangerous drug dealing provisions because they didn't come back to life because they didn't apply? And why don't they apply? Because we're exhausted out there with kids who are victims? So that's the absolute, there's no logical explanation or can be because the real things don't call themselves the real name. What particularly concerns you as a whole when you read this bill of law is what kind of authority you are, and that's the one that's here a little bit in conflict with the other, and it gives something to this other minister, the Minister of Health, so he can also forget the Police Act. The Minister of Police, the Minister of the Interior, and even the director himself, does not have as much authority as he provides here with a proposal for these laws, these two ministers in social care, or in the centres themselves. I will, for example, not to mention by certain provisions what is the matter, or which provisions directly refer to. With this intention, the establishment of family centers that are desirable, which should be developed and decentralised, they are centralised, they will not be able to do as they set up their basic task to be close to a man, a man who lives in a family to solve his problems. Why? Because they are formed at the county level, it is proposed, i.e. the possibility that co-founders, i.e. that the family centre in the county can form one or more branches. What and who will it depend on? About the Minister, about the central government. We saw yesterday how she train units of local self-government, including those of the county, cities and municipalities or the City of Zagreb who are ready to be co-founders of the family centre, whether they will be denied the consent of the minister, or the minister, because there is an opposition situation in that unit of local self-government, so it is not desirable for people to be successful there. Therefore, such discretionary powers are left to the central government, and we have seen how it otherwise uses it when it is able, and even when it is not, it is very dangerous, but regardless of this or that political set of systems, in order to be efficient it needs to be created so that in everyday personnel combinations it works. This isn't the case. Therefore, under certain conditions and criteria, it should not be left in disposition, but simply those are the legal conditions for co-founder to be a unit of local self-government, because it is primarily in its interest and the authorities will, and thus, be treated whether it is successful or not, as far as it is in both these activities and in this scope of business, fulfils its function, i.e. at least legal possibilities. When we see the activities of the family center, we see where the Croatian family goes. There is no talk here about promoting equal education of both partners of children, it is quite negligible, there is no talking here about the addiction of parents, so older people, but something is mentioned only in children and youth. So where there's violence in the family, it's some notion that's so imaginary of reality here, it's something that is conveniently spoken like this when it's a day of fighting domestic violence, and what's a major problem in families, that family centres won't, it's not taxing them to be their duty and authority. And now we see the director, the director of the centre, of course appointed minister, and you see further that it would somehow sound this little bit less autocratic on the basis of a public tender, and then you don't know whether it's an act of public authority or an administrative act. It cannot, because it is an act of appointment, be appointed only on the basis of a public wonder, authority or public call rather than a public tender. It's a contradiction and on... But these are already small legal matters that Minister Kosor will know better than you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we've got another big one, something that comes especially into the eyes, and that's yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46596	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46597	Which is completely unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46598	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46599	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46600	Turn yourself on, watch the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46601	A colleague of Antičević-Marinović said in her presentation a number of incorrect claims, and I will correct only one that the system, that the proposed changes in the system will actually destroy, and considering the abolition of the Croatian Institute for Labour, and I think it is absolutely incorrect, that the system will work better because it will be decentralised and a large part of the planned activities that the Croatian Institute for Social Work should have will take over the county centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46602	Second correction, the respected representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46603	Thank you very much. Here's what I'm going to do is correct just one of a series of incorrect allegations from Agent Anticevic. She said in her statement that this is, this law, that this is a dangerous experiment, that it's not, but it's not true to you. If it were dangerous or a fake of something wrong, then surely this government and the ministry would not have proposed it in half of their term of office. It is true, Madam Representatives, that just you and your government, at the end of your term, gave you this dangerous experiment and in one unquality way you made the Social Care Decision when you founded an establishment that didn't work for you to this day, and that showed you the time that it was actually nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46604	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46605	Your Honor and honor, Mr. President. Since Mrs. Ingrid is worried about the position of the HSP club, I'll tell her next. He doesn't have to worry about it, our position was clear, I first made that point on the Legislative Committee, if it were to be removed urgently from the procedure so that we could discuss the proposal for this law, we also asked for it when setting the agenda. As it's done by us, it means as far as the first reading is concerned, we support it, but we know what the first reading is, I don't have to explain it to you, because you're a lawyer like me, which means first reading, which means the final bill. We therefore open the space that this law must be brought into line with the law in the formation of the ministry for the central authorities of the state administration, and we also propose a significant number of other issues that should be the content of this law, i.e. we plead what they plead on the Committee on Legislatives that a new whole law should be passed where all this should be regulated. Now, how it will be settled in the final draft of the law depends on our decision whether we will vote for it or not when he comes, and it will again be the club of the HSP, not the SDP club for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46606	Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46607	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law is just a continuation of the euthanasia of the welfare system. The first step was when the social system associated with the health system, two large systems, two temporary problems, and simply in such a ministry of the social services came to the last place the minister definitely, I often wonder if the minister knows that the social care system is with him, definitely the social welfare system that he is not dealing with, and according to what he's seen in the last two years, and everyone else in that ministry is too busy dealing with the welfare system. The second blow to the social system was when the Family Ministry was formed, in a way a sort of virtual ministry because what they wanted to take from the welfare system was stopped by Minister Hebrang. However, I see that now Mr. Ljubic lets the social care system be split neatly and that Mrs. Kosor from the welfare system sets out something that cannot be singled out. And third, I don't know if the social impact is final or if you're still preparing another blow to the welfare system is exactly this law when you're additionally pulling that system between the two ministries. You're simply sharing something that can't be divided because it won't work. As for the Department of Social Affairs, the Institute did not evoke because you had not formed it for two years, you deliberately obstructed it, and here today, the State Secretary said that the Department of Social Care was a distraction to the ministry because it centralises the ministry and centralises experts and it says it is unacceptable. It is obviously more acceptable for experts and the entire system to be dispersed into two ministries, perhaps even in three ministries, then much easier to operate like that in the system. And on the other hand, I'm just curious because now you don't have anyone who's going to make a kind of database, who's going to make certain indicators of what the state of the system is like to approach a serious reform of the social care system at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46608	Please fellow MPs, you know what that's about, to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46609	So obviously this will be done on some political criteria, which is bad for social care. You don't have basic indicators in social care right now, you don't have them because nobody does. Coliga Vidovic has made it very clear here that this cannot be done by someone in Benkovec, Zagreb, Split or other places. This must be done centralisedly, so it must be done within the Department of Social Care. Therefore, when you do not have the basic data, you do not have the right analysis where the problems in the social care system are I do not know how you will find solutions to these problems. Obviously not. The mandate will pass and the welfare will die from day to day. This is where family centres are done, it's actually parallel centres for social care instead of going to something that was written in the national family policy, and that's why I said that this is a pure falsification of national family policy because it has nothing to do with what was written here except a title that is the only one that is exactly copied. The Centres of Family Policy are designed as a sort of support for social care centres on the one hand, and on the other hand as a service to citizens. This is now pure parallelism, clean parallel centers for social care. What's gonna happen to the existing centers I don't know. Instead of going to strengthen existing centres, to employ a number of mental health professionals in existing centres because they simply lack it, they miss continuing to continue with continuous education because people in the centres show their response to any education that they organise that they need you to form some sort of quasi welfare center. The fact that the centres and the social care system are not fully functioning showed the Bezovica case where everyone has said it, also showed a murder case in Petrinja where it simply didn't take care of a very high-risk family. Therefore, we have a lot of problems in the functioning of the social care system, and therefore it was necessary to address this by helping the centres of the present to strengthen them, to help them in both spatial and therefore teamwork with mental health professionals. None of that, however. Now, let's go a little bit on how to share powers between the Ministry of Social Welfare and the family center. I'll just warn you about the adoption issue. You've got a clean adoption here in the domain of family centers. Mrs. Nikolic, I'm asking you to adopt now is going very hard and you know it very well. How the adoption will work when adoption is done by people in the center. Homes for carefree children remain in your social care system and in another ministry. Absolutely impossible. What you should have done if you wanted more effective work. You should have assigned one person to each center by name and last name who would only be involved in the adoption of children. Believe me, he's gonna have his hands full 'cause the problems with courts and judicial seduction of parental rights aren't easy work at all. So if you wanted to solve that problem, you could have solved it that way. You could have solved this by changing, for example, the Law on Citizenship so that a child who came from some war wind from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina would not have to wait and meet the five-year criterion in order to get a housewife in this country. So are children criminals? In this country, heavy international criminals were given a housewife. Our children have been waiting in homes for five years to meet the requirements of the law and to be able to gain citizenship and to go into adoption. Well, let's change that then. Let's change our practice. How could it happen in some centres that for a child full of seven years, no death certificate for his father in Germany and that child sitting in a home for seven years? The child turned 15 today and no one will. Who's going to be responsible for that? No one. I absolutely support new employment, primarily mental health experts, professionals who can help in a country where violence is growing, where more and more problems are solved by guns, knives, axes, and I don't know what not. All of this is slowly being broken into our schools, and that's what we asked the question in the current class. And unfortunately, this is also because in schools a good step of the former coalition government has been stopped, and it is the employment of mental health experts in schools. Mr. Primorac's first thing he did in the first budget that was made after HDZ's arrival in power was to remove the item from hiring mental health experts. So today we have what we have to attack students, students to teachers, parents to teachers. So we have one general uncertainty in schools. Maybe we should go back a little bit to the kids at home. I'd like to ask you this time how, for example, in the welfare system, you'll be dealing with the division of jobs between two ministries that are indivisible, how for example, you'll solve the problem of scholarship students, a small number of students coming out of carefree children's homes. So that's something that you haven't systematically solved, and what you did when the previous Minister of Labour and Social Care gave these children scholarships from your ministry you've been able to transfer these scholarships to the Ministry of Science. So do you really think that children in homes are in the same conditions as yours and my children, that they can go to a scholarship contest just as well as other children can? I can't. These children, there are currently only eight of them in Croatia who are studying, or 15 children. Therefore, they should have received a legally regulated obligation to give the state a scholarship and care for them until the end of their education. Let's talk about foster care. You know it was UNICEF's "Every child has the right to a home, to a family". What's with the action? Money collected in the amount UNICEF planned. What happened next? According to my information in the city of Zagreb, only six families have signed up to take such children. What were we doing? We weren't working. Obviously, education was weak to these people. And on the other hand, no one will ever foster children again unless the status of foster parents is resolved, and that's something that needs to be solved, and that's something that the former government has written in national family policy. These people need to be given their own status, they need to be given professional help because one part of these people has been taken into account, received, for example, and fostered children who have behavioral disorders. These people are not helped, and they find it difficult to deal with such children. It's hard for kids, it's hard for them. And in the end, let's see that these people and we increase the compensation for those children because if we pay three to five thousand kunas in homes per child, that's why we only give these people a thousand and a half or two thousand kuna. Because of what I've said so far, I can't vote for this law and I hope that you will withdraw this law until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46610	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46611	Thank you, Mr. President, Mrs. Assembly MP Opačić has said this among other things, and she says, as she said in a very inappropriate manner, she says, does the minister even know that he is in charge of social care. Yes, that's exactly what you're saying, Mrs. Opačić, but if the minister wasn't involved in social care, he wouldn't get so much recognition for decentralisation programmes, social care rationalization and regional... And besides, the world's credit to do that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46612	The second correction, the respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46613	So I would just correct my colleague Opačić who said that the separation from the budget for children who are placed in homes of three to five thousand is not three to five thousand but is 4500 kuna, up to 11 thousand kuna, so even that is very different from home to home. While children, i.e. foster parents and children in foster families receive 1640 kunas since 2002 and are not given the price of lifts, this country should provide equal care for children who do not have adequate family care.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46614	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46615	Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I have a very important question here that is essential to me. The National Journal No 129 of 31 October 2001 published the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, which entered into force 8 days after its publication, meaning 8 November. The Law explicitly states that municipalities and cities in their own self-rule are performing matters of local importance and relating to child care, social care, education and primary education, etc., etc. So, we got the Law that came into force three days ago, which, today, we are discussing the Law, about one fundamental law in the field of social care and especially child care, primary health care, primary education, and which is completely contrary to what is set out in the Law on Local Self-Government. Because there is no possibility for cities to make any decisions about whether or not they will establish family centres, how they will be managed, how they will be cared for, where they will be located, etc., etc. Therefore, I think that this bill should not have been put into practice at all, but should have been given a law that would indeed allow the decentralisation of social care, which would allow units of local self-government, not regional and regional, but local self-governments to consume their right to social care. And in order to have that right, it takes two preconditions. It is necessary to amend all other laws and not just organically, and it is necessary to provide the means to create them, to do so. Therefore, this Law was to say that, that units of local self-government set up centres, family centres, and that the state would decentralise the adequate amount of funds for family centres and would, of course, exercise control over these centres. And what do we have? We have a complete opposite, we have that only the minister decides whether or not to establish the center. That only the minister decides who will be the director of a public tender, but he decides who will be the director, for example, not to know who makes the statutes. This Law did not say who would pass the statute of the institution, although it is said that some things would be prescribed. And finally, the Law on Institutions said that the institution in principle, is there, if it is of general interest, and this is thank God, because it establishes a state-run family centre to have administrative councils. These family centres do not even have a board of directors, but the only ones who will decide on the 21st family centre is the minister. So, the minister will call a tender, the minister will probably interview candidates for the 21 centres, so he'll probably run some tests on those directors, so he'll come up with solutions on who he'll probably be and control, control their work. So this law is essentially contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government that came into force the day before yesterday. And it should be possible for local self-government units to finally consume their social care rights. Yesterday from the Ministry of Health and Social Care in 17.48 minutes, an e-mail was sent to the county, it says, under way is the development of a decision on decentralisation, decentralised social care functions for 2006. So we ask you to send us some information by ten o'clock tomorrow. Watch out the county has nothing to do with social welfare, according to the Law on Local Self-Government. Countys have health education, spatial planning, economic development, etc., etc. No one delivered anything to the cities. Therefore, if this was to be delivered, then it was to be delivered to cities, but cities are not founders of a welfare centre, but are counties. The cities will not be the founders of family centers, but will be the state this time. Why now the welfare center can start a county and the family center can't county but be founded by the state, is that decentralisation? No, I don't. It's something else to me. Well, then, you have powers here to deal with, for example, those centers, so you say preschool accommodations. Excuse me, gentlemen, preschool education is the electoral authority of local self-government units. I don't know how this family center is gonna deal with putting a kid in kindergarten. If there's a problem, the state has instruments to control it. We have the Central Office of the State Administration, we have administrative oversight, we have an education service at the Ministry of Education that deals with preschool education, which is ultimately supervised by preschool institutions in this country. What the family center will now do on the accommodation of children in preschool institutions. Or you have, say, prevention of all forms of addiction in children and youth. Well, gentlemen, that's what public health services do today. In my county, there is a counseling centre for prevention of addiction between other and young people. But there are also clubs of treated alcoholics who unfortunately have been burned today only on the burden of local self-government. And alcoholism was a serious problem, and today it's in this society. So we have certain segments. We have certain institutions, we have associations of citizens dealing with this segment. And instead of letting the local self-government find the best way to continue to improve that concern about the family and everything that comes out of the family, we are now setting up, not us, the state founded, the state founded family centers, the family centers that will then take care of it. I think it's a relatively good model that currently exists, which is that the state, the county and the cities have established family counselling facilities. So at the partner level, I think it's 50, 25, 25, so 50% of the state's funds, 25 counties, 25 cities. And those centres should be supported, those counselling centres should be supported. Because I finally think that, except for two, three large funds, we won't even have professional people who will be able to do full time work in these family centers. Therefore, one core should be created and then it should be possible for the consultant to develop something which, on the principle of interest, will, on the principle of volunteering and fees, provide these services. We must do everything on the other hand to fill all the empty places in schools with professional associates. It is unacceptable for you to have a psychologist and a pedagogist at, at 4 or 5 primary schools in one city and to have requirements in the Ministry of Education for the employment of professional associates and that you cannot get approval for the employment of these professional associates. So we will not solve the problem or family care for the state to establish an institution or institution, but we will solve it in a way that all those who have a need, obligation and legal need to care, care for the family. And the best thing that can be done is by the local self-government unit. Because no one can do better. Can't the minister better than some mayor know what to do about family policy issues in the city? What's the family situation? Why, for example, do you have a situation where you have more divorces in one city than in another city? For example, why is it that in one city you have more foster families than in all of Zagreb and so on? So let's do this, let's not pass laws that are opposite to each other. Let's not be declarative about decontralization, but finally do it. Let's trust in local self-government. The local self-government was, all she had decentralisedly solved in a better way than when it was, was centralized. We've been better at elementary schools since they've been decentralised into cities. We've been better in high school since they've been decentralized into the county. We've been better at hospitals since they've been decentralized into the county. And so on and so forth. I therefore propose to the promoter what my colleague Kovacevic said: "We will see what will be in the second reading." It is difficult to change the law now. It is not according to the Rules of Procedure to change the essence of the law now. So I suggest that this law be withdrawn, that a good idea be done and made in accordance with organic law, which is the Law on Local Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46616	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46617	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think it's a gentleman, so I'm going to correct an incorrect assumption. I think Mršić envisaged an article in this envisaged Law on Amendments and Supplements to Law 80F which specifically states that the statute in the Family Centre is passed by the Director. You probably predicted it, and you didn't read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46618	Replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46619	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we discussed amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government at the previous parliamentary session, it seemed to me that my colleague Mršić and I were the ones who were constantly warning that that Law was not implemented and that no new decentralisation was announced because it could only be introduced with 34 special laws. We have warned and asked the Government not to come before us with laws that go into the jurisdiction of local and regional self-government if they do not carry out at least a consultation with local and regional self-government before, and it also commits a number of European documents, especially the Charter of Local Self-Government, and only a month after that, after the urgent procedure, we receive a bill that is not only contrary to the Law of the Last Session but is intruding further and implements a new centralised on the one hand, and on the other hand, proposes a decentralisation that no one has asked. I am more surprised by Mrsic's decision to vote for such a bad Law on Local Self-Government. Well, for example, this law that is now coming and that should have been followed by an emergency procedure. Dependence, the fight against addiction that we have fought for years and managed to give jurisdiction to the county public health services of the state wants to centralise back through this law by giving to the authorities of the centres as state centres. You need to understand the functioning, not just the letter of the law. Secondly, the state orders local or regional self-government to set up some new institutions without asking them at all if they want to, and how long do they need financial centres? But what's decentralised and these are kindergartens you interfere with through supposed centres for the family to interfere with the essence of the process itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46620	Thank you very much. The answer to...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46621	It would be best if the new law... [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46622	Reply to the replica, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46623	So you see here really the code, with this law there are a number of questions that have not been resolved. For example, Article 80d) states that the Director has the authority of a certain law, a decision on the establishment or the Statute of a family centre. And then really here is my colleague, Roksandić, who precisely said, "The status brings this director." Imagine the statutes determine which powers the director will have, and he brings the statute himself. Is that not illogical? Isn't that illogical? That's one thing. The second question is, how can you have a director before the statutes? How will you have a director if you don't have a statute before? I therefore assume that there should be a first act of establishment, that there should be a statute, to prescribe in the statute how the Director will be elected. Then pick the principal and then the principal works. And not the other way around, you have here that he'll be the first principal, and then I guess he'll be the center, and then he'll be after that statute. You know, it's a little bit the other way around, and I really think that, but it doesn't matter these little nuances in this, I think that this is essentially a law contrary to the Law of Local Law. And that there's an opportunity here for the government to show effectively that it's for decentralisation. If it is for decentralisation, then it must enable units of local self-government to make decisions, not that the decision is made by the minister because what I have told you here is: the decision is to make a decision on, for decentralised functions. What does decentralisation look like? So the county sends out wishes so the minister decides what he will decentralize. Well, that's not decentralisation. Decnetralisation is if the local self-government unit makes its own decision, not if the minister decides on the wishes of local self-government units according to some criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46624	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46625	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's what's really really been said about these amendments and the additions to the law, and from the introduction itself, the secretary of state said why it came to him? I'm gonna stop at my own debate just at this new Family Center that I'd already said I'd been living up to last year and this year in some counties. The truth is here when those contracts that Mršić now mentioned are signed: agreements for counselling, for marriage, for children and youth, and I must tell you that this has proved to be a great help in smaller areas where this type of assistance was really and really necessary. Social care centres in these environments were overly busy with their daily work, so they often did not have time, and neither did experts to do these jobs as advisory work with young people or with families, and so I think these counselling centres were very welcome and that they are still working well. I must also say that the reconstruction of the departments of services carried out by social care centres in part of the family's competence was at the family ministry and the other jobs remained at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. It was also very visible when setting up these consulates where, and were initially mostly counselling centres that were and were entitled for marriage, family and youth, that the consent to the employment of employees was given by the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and the complete programme was financed by the Ministry of Family Affairs. Perhaps you would agree with Mr. Mršić who started this topic and said that I think that, since this first reading should also be considered that the family centre is managed by the director. I don't know why there's really no one here but the expert council of another collegiate body who's going to run this facility. Perhaps you should consider that this facility, like any institution, has an administrative council. What's good about this law, I'll tell you. And that is, the law has brought the members of the board of directors into line with the Labour Act because of the members of the boards of directors in the social care centres of five members of the board of directors, of the five members of the board of directors, the social care centre is now out of the ranks according to this new proposal by all employees, and not just from the ranks of professional associates, as it has been so far. It is important that the members of the Governing Council, precisely because of the complexity of the tasks they are carrying out in this proposal, must have a high level of expertise, so that what happened at the County Assembly in Sisak-Moslavina, the board of directors of the Social Care Centre, would not happen, members who do not meet the legal criteria. After the scandal broke out with a change of board members at the hospital, because they were replaced by a completely wrong law. Then the members of the board of directors were appointed not to comply with the law, so the president of the assembly said that he was not burdened with the law but with the persons appointed, right. Because he had to pay back some pre-election debts. The changes that this law provides are also changes relating to inspection surveillance. In the proposed changes and transactions of the inspection, they are differentiated according to the ministry's jurisdiction. The big news is the possibility that surveillance can also be carried out by experts from the list of experts to be brought by the ministers responsible for the affairs of social care and family, which will certainly make it possible to act faster on certain problems and I believe it will and will be more effective in business. Just because we witness frequent articles in the press and in the media about violations of the rights of users and in countries for old and powerless, especially in foster families. What is more important and what is envisaged and what is good in this law is that Article 30 of the proposed amendments and additions are more precise as to how a person can conclude a contract with a home of social care on subsistence costs of accommodation. It is very important that what is prescribed is what all the contracts must contain, because from several cases they were most often, we witnessed in the old h and the powerless persons who signed the cost contracts and taught their entire assets, I would say in property without an estimate and after some time we were left without anything, and if there was an end to the contract and on the road. And finally, I support what is scheduled to be resolved and the status of nurses employed in the homeland of social care, to enable them to pass an expert exam, a state exam, according to the health ministry rules, because they have so far been working in the homeland, especially for the elderly and the powerless, had very much difficulty in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46626	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46627	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague, apparently she fell for Mr. Mrsic's hook. Namely, it's about institutions. According to the Law on Institutions, each institution has an administrative council. Therefore, it should not stand in this law when it is known that each institution has an administrative council. Also, if something new is set up, then a temporary director is appointed until the statutes are adopted, and after that, when conditions are obtained, elections for the director are discussed. So neither one of us knows the situation, and he's talking about something he doesn't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46628	Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46629	Well, I would totally agree with my colleague, Roksandić, if the welfare centres were overworked, that's one thing. And second, that there is indeed a huge need to or a certain great need to employ a certain number at the social care center, a greater number of professionals who will work. But look, while they were already busy with their work, we, not us, voted against it, buried another job, which is the return of the administrative fee to what, unfortunately, our poorest citizens have to pay when they go to the doctor. Not only is that a big problem for the centres, it's a big problem for the budget as well. Because, for example, for 10 kunas how long you will come to ask for your return it takes, to be received by a social worker, with you to spend a certain amount of time. The average gross hour of social work is about 35 kuna. It takes him half an hour, so 17 kuna. Then you should be sent with a return return which is a further 14 for the post office. So you should spend 31 kunas to deliver the administrative act only to whoever asked for a refund of 10 kunas. And that's what our social workers are wasting their time on. Instead of dealing with why they were founded, taking care of people who needed their help. Therefore, an administrative fee should be abolished, or at least abolished, what has been done here, so that you must come to the center for social work to return 10 kuna of administrative fees, and that at the same time you must pay at least 31 kuna from this budget. If there's still a little talk there, it goes up to a lot more money. So the violence is a form of content.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46630	Replica reply, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46631	Well, that's exactly why my colleague Mršić, I support the establishment of a family center. Because these very jobs, the advisory ones, are going to separate them from these jobs that you have listed, which are technical, which unfortunately social care centres have to do along with these, let's say, professional jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46632	Second replica, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46633	Speaking of family centres, Mrs. Roksandić did not mention one quite important function to me in the whole welfare system, it is a matter of dealing with and consulting with disability problems. It seems to me that I do not in any way dispute the need for and advisory and preventive work in social care, but this is the way the defined centres seem to have been formed and this is what my colleague Opačić has well defined as quasi-centres, since the opposite here in the House are adopted in national and family politics. It seems to me that at least in this part of the disability resolution and the problems of one part of the parents who have children with disabilities will be just another search in the system. In fact, it has been written in the media, the problem that has been solved so far, I hope, and Madam Secretary of State, that the parents who have the basis of the Social Care Act will be almost rid of the right to work, at half the time, given that they have a child with a severe disability, the second part of the salary will have to pay for a welfare centre that does not pay them any contributions or anything else that needs to go from and to pay. So, I'm afraid by demarcating in two forms, that's where this is going to be done, that's where we're actually going to do what's really just more complicated the system since we're not working in a way that's set out in the national family policy and in a way that the profession has determined that we should work.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46634	Replica reply, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46635	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think fellow Members, that you Lugaric, that you can't tell me what we're going to do, predict that, and you can't say what I'm going to say. It's a matter of dealing, of consulting people with disabilities. Why do you think these individuals are different so that they can’t seek counsel at a family center like this? Either I didn't hear you correctly, or you advocate that people with disabilities, people with special needs, I would call them that are people who still have to stay at the welfare center with their problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46636	Respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46637	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I'd like to replicate to my dear colleague, Roksandić, if it's not a problem whether something is called a social work office or a family center. That's the least of the problems. But seeing in the very law that we do not have a council of directors in such an institution and that this is exactly the council chosen not by the director but by the minister, that the statute does not confirm the representative body, but is confirmed again by the minister that it really leads to rigorous centralisation, and I cannot agree with you that we will improve the work by creating a list of inspectors and even being really funny that the minister is making a decision on what the inspector's card will look like. I really don't see the possibility of improving the work in this segment that these centres will work better familyly because the minister brings it. I think we really need all of this, these articles about what the minister brings down to the level of the board of directors and local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46638	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46639	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! For me, this bill that we are discussing today in the first reading is actually the result of two years of wandering on such a sensitive issue as the system of social care and family care. In this regard, I ask the question whether anyone from the Government will be responsible for the fact that they are already thinking and assessing what a ministry should do, the Ministry of Family Affairs and which should be dealt with by another Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, and that practically after these two years, they still haven't distinguished jobs between the two ministries. During that time, as fellow Mršić and other MPs pointed out, we produce a series of laws neatly without anyone thinking about their consequences or what we are talking about here today. I want to repeat once again in my debate that the highlight of cynicism for me is to say that something has not been brought to life, in this case the Croatian Institute for Social Work when no one has set it up or started it or given it a chance to try to live. There's a dead letter left in one law that's how the secretary of state herself said it actually bothers you as if it's some kind of box that someone gets over every morning when they come to work. In these two years, I would also like to emphasise, the existing strategy for developing the pension system and social care systems has also been completely ignored and the existing national family policy has been ignored in particular. As far as I am aware, neither by any act nor by government nor by this House, these two documents have been put out of force and as far as I know, neither new ones have been made. So we're talking about a national family policy in 2002 and we're talking about a strategy for developing the pension system and welfare system. And otherwise, I'd say that this government is actually very easy to move a feather with one move, it would say the abolition of some institutions that have very much survived. I remind you that two years ago, the State Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth, which was actually in a similar way, was designed to do so by the Croatian Institute for Social Work at the level of the entire system, conducted a systematic analysis, care, research, proposed measures, produced a series of documents and measures that this new government had completely ignored for two years ago, and only now, after two years, we are now trying to do something in the field of family policy or social care system. Namely, I think it is worth reminding that the Institute for Social Work, Social Assistance and Social Care should have been at the level of the entire system, so, at the state level, it is an analysis, measures, the preparation of proposals for improving activities, the launch of education programmes, the concept of social programmes, laws, implementing and other regulations, etc., etc. Finally, the establishment of the institute does not contradict the upcoming decentralisation of the system but rather the success of decentralisation and coordination of the system. I repeat the question of who will actually be doing these jobs today. If I'm not mistaken, the secretary of state in his address here seems to have told me the county centers, that every single county center will be systematically implemented and considered systematically by a state policy that should be conducted at the level of a state. The fact is that the proposal for this law only extrapolates and weakens the existing social care system. The counselling centres that were founded in fact at social care centres are now being singled out into special institutions, family centres under the direct authority of the state, and it is still said to be fully in line with the existing national family policy. Please, the existing national family policy in that part that speaks of the services of dedicated families speaks of, of course, in a special one item and about the establishment of a family centre, so it says "The Centre for the Family is a multinational institution that unites and coordinates different programmes and actions intended for children, parents, potential and current and other family members. The Centre for the Family could be established by local communities, religious communities or associations of citizens and financed by service users or in the case of families of local and state institutions. The establishment of a family centre does not necessarily mean the construction of new institutions, but in this sense it is possible to use existing institutions such as schools, kindergartens, libraries, and they need to be enriched with content that will fit the needs of the family, including the contents intended for affirmation of successful and responsible parenting." That's exactly what it says in the National Family Policy and that's what it still seems to me current today. I repeat, I don't remember any act or government or parliament putting this out of force. Let me also say a few sentences. It is that it is the first reading and I will certainly raise my hand today that this does not go any further, that is, against this law itself. But I want to point out a few things that come out of this law. The first is that these laws give great powers to current ministers. I find it inadmissible that even one minister or minister decides on the appointments and the head of the family centre branch. While I am already on the appointment of the Director and Head of the branch, I would like to warn you, it seems to me that I have also been warned by the Advocate for Gender Equality, in Article 80d. which refers to the appointment of the Director. Madam Secretary of State, it turns out that in the appointment of a director, a person who is legally convicted of a crime against life, body, freedom, human and citizen rights, persons, morals, marriage, family, youth, etc. be eventually appointed director because it doesn't say anywhere that he has to give some kind of confirmation that he hasn't been convicted and punished so far. But that's why it's the solution. Therefore, please allow these two provisions to be aligned. Furthermore, you said in your opening statement that it is good in this law that, so far, there have been objections about the work, there will be expert supervision by experts who will, again, appoint and elect a minister, presently or tomorrow, a minister. So, from a list of experts to be delivered by the minister responsible for social care and family affairs. So these experts will be able to carry out expert surveillance. At the same time, the same article states that inspection and supervision of professional work can be carried out by inspectors, senior inspectors, etc., etc. I, of course, ask the question of who will decide when professional supervision will be performed by existing inspectors, and when expert supervision will be performed by experts on that famous list. Whether it will be when a decision is made that does not correspond to a minister or a minister or it will be when someone makes a decision that does not answer to the principal or I do not know someone else within the Social Care Centre, or family centres. I repeat in the end, and I would like to say once again that for this kind of confusion actually in the area of jurisdiction, direct responsibility is given to those members of the government who are in charge of this portfolio, especially here I am referring to the Deputy Prime Minister. I repeat, it is inadmissible, for a full two years to work on the separation of powers and finally come with a bill of one law that only adds further confusion to this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46640	Thank you. We're going to a five-minute debate. Honorable representative Ruža Lelic, HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46641	Dear President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here we also saw in this debate that the proposed proposals were also discussed but also generally on the social care system. So I would remind once again that the welfare and care system should be just and accessible, just to get it to those who really need it and available, that they can easily achieve it, but they should encourage both work and responsibility. Encourage the work and responsibility of each individual to care for meeting their basic needs as well as to meet the needs of those who are obliged to care. And only if they are not able to do so, but according to clear and certain criteria that there is then a system and a measure of social assistance and care. There was a big debate here about what with the Department of Social Affairs. And there were opinions and hard words that it was a continuation of euthanasia, that the system would be completely ruined, I don't think it really stands. This really doesn't stand, because here is what if we read in an explanation that all the institutions that were supposed to live and were not supposed to work, so it is said that its role should be moved in the range from providing social services and monitoring the conditions for their acquisition and the minimum standards that the state provides to professional supervision of providing these services. The Institute should be responsible for improving content, methods and techniques of professional work, information management, the application of results, action, evolutionary research in the field of social care. I think it would be two parallel systems, one would be the Institute, the Croatian Institute of Social Work, and the other would be the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and I don't think that would be good. What the ministries should do, and much of this should be done by the Ministry of the State Minority, the ministry should do, and this part, which should be done locally, should be done by the County Centres for Family Centres, or the County Centres in Social Care. So they'd be the ones who would be at the local level, and we know that all our counties and all our local self-governments don't have the same needs for other areas, either in the areas of social care, so they'd be there to do programs for their local self-government units to monitor, analyze, collect data and then deliver it to the competent ministry. Then I think it is good to separate this part that implies that it is protective, which deals with the protection of the right, or the curative, to keep it in welfare centres and the part that would deal with counselling centres. So far, we at many of our social care centres have had departments that have been engaged in such activities, so I would say that these employees will continue to work in family counselling centres. Family counselling must be necessary. In today's conditions, I think we really need them to deal with counselling, prevention, education and everything else we need. Of course, here it is necessary to make sure that these services are not then, they are opposed to each other but to be complemented and to cooperate, given that they are two different ministries and that they will need to pay attention. And what I would see is that my time is running out, which I would say, is that we are particularly useful to believe that we have not so far, in the debate has not stood out and I think there have been individual examples and that there have been abuses, that we consider to be useful what is prescribed in a clear way for adults to settle their property, to settle the price of accommodation, or what all these contracts should contain, which should be contributed, means a better solution to this issue and that abuse of those, old and powerless persons, is as little as possible. I think this debate will contribute to a better solution in the second reading and that any shortcomings will certainly be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46642	SDP club, respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46643	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club in these five minutes, I would like to invite the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Resoring Ministry and the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Kosor, to withdraw this Act after this first reading. The law should be withdrawn because in this way the social care system that cannot be shared is further shared, so far we have said that it is divided between the two ministries, that the welfare, put into the ministry together with the health care system, and that two burdensome systems, therefore, cannot function in this way and that it is definitely neglected in that part of the social system in the last two years. That it was neglected speech and this law in which the Institute of Social Welfare had not established for two years and now instead of establishing the Law, it is going to be abolished. This law should therefore be helped because it further breaks the social care system, secondly, it should be withdrawn because it creates confusion in the system, it creates parallels as I have told quasi centres for social care. But it will also create confusion among citizens because after creating these centers and family counselling centres, I think that citizens will become less and less aware of who they should address and who ultimately is responsible for their problems. Third, there is an unnecessary centralization that we have warned here. Instead of going to decentralisation, to leave family centres as the national family policy in the jurisdiction of only local self-government units, it is now centralised again and leaving it in the hands of ministers, one or another ministry. Finally, it should be said that this Law solves existing problems in the social care system, only problems will multiply on what we of the SDP Club will always give support to the ministry, which is that existing social care centres with much better working conditions, to provide them with spatial capacity which has not been done in many areas so far. Secondly, we will always support that experts are hired at the Social Care Centre because there are simply no experts in the centres. Pressure on social care centres in the last few years has been extremely high and others are with the same number of employees as it was before when the pressure on them was not so great. So, because of the increased number of users, because of the increased pressure on social care centres, I think it would be much more effective than creating these quasi centres in the form of so-called so-called. family centers. It would be much better to ensure increased employment of experts at social care centres and thus, in a way, to raise social care centres in a more qualitative way and thus provide better protection and assistance to our citizens than we have today. So because of all these arguments that we presented on behalf of the Club, and in individual discussions, we ask that this Law be withdrawn by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46644	The HSS club, the respected representative of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46645	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleagues and colleagues here from this morning we've been discussing this bill and it seems to me that through this debate that the representatives participated in, it seems to me that we can draw some conclusions from all the clubs, at least on the basis of what was said. It seems to me that there is an opinion and consensus prevailing in the need for a new Social Care Act, and that is unequivocal. It also overcomes what we of the Croatian Peasant Party Club claimed when we spoke on behalf of the Club that this Law was completely consummated. When we talk about the conceptual failure of the law, then in no way can we allow anyone to impute any opinion or attitude that family centres do not need. Family centers need it because the foundation and pillar of every society is family. The family's in crisis today. The consequences of family and family problems, which are of course created, are reflected in society as members of the family are of course members of the social community. If we've established it together and we have. That's what we've come to realize and we've established together. National family policy was unanimously adopted, and then we need to systematically implement it. To invest all of its opportunities, state opportunities to achieve the goal of what is set out in this national family policy. This way, I used the term this morning, so I'm going to repeat it, by pushing it into a law that doesn't suit the nature of things, we're going to make a mess, we're going to create a darmar, we're going to create a conflict of jurisdiction that no one can resolve. It is not enough to appeal as counterpart Lelic said she is keeping an eye out that jurisdiction does not conflict. To distinguish jurisdiction, intervention is required in a number of other laws, not just an appeal. This conflict of jurisdiction cannot be removed in its own opinion because of the rights and obligations arising from each law. Now we're wondering if one law of law and obligations settles in one way, another law of course makes a mess, and there's no moving forward. Our goal is to have, to move forward and therefore use energy, time and power to create a system. The system that will function, which will ultimately bring those help and counselling and I don't know what's in national politics to strengthen, strengthen and give... Power. [[I don't understand the language.]] This way, when we look at why it came now, why did it come so quickly? Somehow we get the impression that we're actually burdened with the problem of how to spend the funds that are secured in the State budget, so now we're going to pass a law that doesn't have any legal or possible logic so we can say: "We've invested the funds here." We're going to invest, and those funds are going to be dropped. In this way, money from the State budget is available so that I don't tell taxpayers' money can't. That's why we're appealing to the motionary, and we say let's get this bill out of the process. Let the Work Group's work be speeded up by them to draft laws on family centres in order to pass this law as soon as possible and to start implementing the policy that we all swear here is our goal and that we want to do so. So the Croatian Peasant Party Club will not vote in favour of and does not support this law, and is calling for this bill to be withdrawn from the procedure and to propose a new law on family centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46646	The HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46647	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm not going to charge anyone today. I will try very constructively to speak in, according to and determine myself according to this bill. And I must say that the Croatian party of pensioners is pleased that an emergency procedure has been removed and we are glad that the minister has accepted it. Because we also advocated the work of the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Care. I think there's a lot to be done until the second reading. The first thing we want in Croatia is for the retirement party to do is to forward this law to the Economic and Social Council for consideration and for evidence. That before the second reading, we have an indication of the Economic and Social Council. The social component in this institutional, therefore in that body for the realisation of social dialogue exists and they are obliged to refer to this, according to this Act. Secondly, what I have pointed out and about the work of the Committee we want, I want to personally, and I believe that you want to have a comparison of this model to similar European solutions that have much, much more experience in spending social, social care in capital relations than we do. Secondly, a large dilemma was in front of us in Croatia by a party of pensioners given the competences to conduct social care in part of family centres in two ministries. We know that we have a lot of laws where the jurisdiction of one ministry is, so for two years, we've been waiting to get sublegal, sublegal acts. I'm very afraid of what will happen when we have the jurisdiction of two ministries. Secondly, the two ministries' jurisdiction is too large a number of obligations set before the minister. So from the appointment, from the arrangement of working conditions and so on, it says in favour of the ministry's need to take action and to absolutely keep the situation under control. Look, in life practice, I just don't reject some models just because I don't like the possible word. You know, the Department of Social Services, it may not be suitable for our society, but the Italians also have the tricks. You know, he's called "Ente" for this or that. So I don't mind either, but I'm not attacking the family center until I see the bill on family centres, but I also haven't said no to the welfare office yet, and I wouldn't reject it for reasons that he hasn't revived in two years. I know, therefore, that I am not inclined to throw away, especially not solutions that have not been revived, because there is never one path to the goal, but there are more efficient and inefficient roads, cheaper or more expensive ways to realize the goal, and I agree that what they are doing now should be done in one way or another. I wouldn't be setting myself up right now according to the law. We will support this proposal to go to another reading, which does not mean that we have also supported the overall solutions provided for in this law. It depends on the promoter whether he will comply with the emergency procedure and the Family Centres Act so that we can clearly see what the whole model is offering, and then we will determine ourselves according to the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46648	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46649	Well, I'm correcting an incorrect quote, Mr. President, regarding the name of the office. We in the Law establishing ministries and central state bodies have the names of institutions. So it's not that problem, there's a hydrometeorological institution and the second and second seductions, and here's the thing of the second reconstruction. You understand? It's not what he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46650	Final review, State Secretary Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46651	Here, I would like to thank the honourable MPs and the representatives for their constructive debate. All that, remarks, criticisms, suggestions that you've sent to the government will be considered until the second reading and I ask you to support the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46652	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please engage to determine the quorum. Score. 81. Voting quorum. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, first reading. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. A conclusion adopted by 72 votes for and 21 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46655	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen, counsellors. You have before you a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on minimum protection measures on cash and value operations. The very proposal for this Law has already caused certain controversy, which is a sign that there is a great interest in the adoption of this Law in the public, i.e. in trying to solve the problem of prevention, is, above all, breaking down into monetary institutions. We are witnessing that these crimes are causing great anxiety and public indignation because the perpetrators show that such crimes are being committed by increasing brutality and indifference. That is why police cannot stand by and watch what is happening without proposing measures that, in our opinion, should contribute to increasing the security of monetary institutions and act preventively and detimingly on the potential perpetrators of these most serious crimes. In fact, it would be very bad if, as criminals do not adapt to new conditions, the police also do not follow trends, do not follow the seriousness and danger of these crimes, and do not allow criminals to serve money from monetary institutions as in self-service, which unfortunately began to happen, since the role of a monetary institution with the use of force and the increasing frequency of firearms has increased and more significant amounts of money. These data show that there have been certain trends in monetary institutions that are the target of committing these most serious crimes in the past few years. So we have in, the number of robbers in the bookies is down. However, in 2005, the number of crimes grew significantly in banks. And what until a few years ago was unimaginable criminals were committing these crimes to the offices of large banks, to the offices of the FINA and to some other institutions that until a few years ago were not the subject of their crimes. For this reason, we believe that the police most responsible and to prevent such crimes, but also for the subsequent capture of the perpetrators, must propose those measures that are necessary in our view in order to increase efficiency in preventing criminal offences. If crimes have already been committed, we can be more effective in finding the perpetrator. It is very important here to point out that these crimes, especially in recent times, are marked by the fact that they last very short, usually up to 3 minutes, that a very scarce number of clues, useful clues at the place of initiation, and most often is estranged almost money for which it is later difficult to prove that it is precisely, that they originate from a crime. Apparently, criminals are becoming more reckless and more sophisticated, and the public is rightly concerned about it. The Ministry of the Interior considers that these proposed amendments to the Law on minimum protection and business measures with cash and values should contribute to greater security, in particular by monetary institutions themselves, as well as the implementation of preventive measures which will act depreciatingly on potential perpetrators of criminal offences. I'll just briefly tell you what the measures we consider are and we propose them, which should lead to better prevention, above all criminal acts of robbery. So that is, these are new monetary institutions that are also introduced into this law that have not been subject to this law so far. Then it is more precisely defined as being securities, which has been a little unclear so far. And perhaps the biggest news is that, as a protection measure in monetary institutions, the pre-arranged introduction and construction of the work space of employees with impenetrable bulkheads at the level of the floor and the anti-probation door of the space available to the parties and other persons. This measure has not been mandatory so far, however, we believe that this measure, especially in the smaller offices to which it applies, means in operations with a number of employees up to 5, where there are no or no physical protection measures, that this measure should provide significantly greater security for both the space itself and the employees working in these monetary institutions and the parties themselves that are found in these monetary institutions. It is also proposed that the notification systems must be connected to the company’s central notification system in order to minimise this response time. Here, as I have already said, we have one exception: that these measures with impenetrable bulkheads must be implemented, i.e. not to be implemented at the same time as measures of physical protection and measures to introduce these impenetrable bulkheads. We have also defined what is the minimum amount, the money, which must be transported by an armored vehicle. So far, that's not clear. Now we're introducing an 800 thousand kuna financial limit. So the minimum amount to be, the cash amount to be transported by armored vehicles, is 800 thousand kuna. It is also prescribed when carrying smaller amounts of cash that are most often delivered by postmen or runners who must be secured by the corresponding GPRS system, that is up to 15 thousand kuna. It was also not prescribed, and we believe that this will also unequivocally determine what is the obligation of those monetary institutions that deal with money. It is one of the major newspapers that also now introduces the possibility that a police officer is authorised to enter the business space of the monetary institutions of the second category. Until now, it has not been such an option prescribed and control and supervision could only be done by inspectors who were not authorised persons, or who were not police officers, and we have seen that there have been a number of irregularities in the surveillance work and it has been difficult to expect these inspectors to carry out or impose measures to correct the deficiencies. We believe that police officers will be more effective in implementing these measures, implementing the prescribed measures. We have also increased fines for responsible persons, but above all for legal persons who do not implement these prescribed measures and we have imposed a measure or we propose that a temporary ban be imposed on the work of a monetary institution which does not remove any identified irregularities that the Ministry of the Interior has ordered them with a solution. This is a brief overview of the measures proposed by these proposed amendments and amendments to the law and which we believe should lead to greater security of monetary institutions and a reduction in the number of criminal offences. In this regard, we are fully aware that the change of this law itself will not solve the problem because clearly organised crime is very well monitored by the state of society, very quickly following the development of monetary institutions. In the largest number of criminal offences, they were also well equipped with vehicles and liaison systems, weapons that caused fear and anxiety of citizens so that this law should be only one of the measures that the MUP will fully implement in all other areas in order to care for the end of this monster. I repeat again, we do not expect that simply by passing this law we will solve this problem. This law, or measures prescribed by this law, should only be one stone in the mosaic of those measures that the MUP will certainly implement and we will seek amendments and some other laws so that police may be more effective in finding the perpetrators of these offences. Otherwise, you have seen in this criminal structure that unfortunately these crimes are more and more numbered every year, but it is good that the rate of resolution is higher than it was last year. Of course, it cannot satisfy us because, as I said, it has become a criminal offence where the dominant brutality and recklessness of the perpetrators are. But I'm saying, I still have to say that this rate of resolution this year is higher than last year, and we expect that the rate of resolution and detection of the perpetrators will be higher both next year and all the years to come and based on this law. For this reason, on behalf of the ministry, I propose to all parliamentary representatives and clubs to support the adoption of this law because I am sure that you are all aware of the danger of these most serious crimes for the institutions of Croatian society in general, that the public and citizens expect to finally end this monster, if not to be more efficient then that these monetary institutions are safer and more secure and not to be self-services that criminals will enter without much thought and fear, carry significant amounts of money in this matter, not choosing funds and not choosing me as we have seen in the last robbery in Finland where two security guards have died. As part of these measures that I have announced and with security companies, we will also change the Private Protection Act to see what measures they are proposing so that both police and security companies jointly act in a coordinated manner to be more efficient and not to expose the lives of security guards of the lawless and brutality of the perpetrators of criminal offences. It is not our goal to transfer all the responsibility and all the risk to the guards and to the owners of monetary institutions, but our goal and interest in achieving, together with everyone who deals with this business, those solutions that will lead above all, to making these monetary institutions and their business more secure, that their employees and parties are safer, that the security guards are safer but more efficient and that, together with all these participants of these jobs, the police can guarantee the far greater safety of these monetary institutions and the much greater confidence of the citizens in the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46656	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46657	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, the Secretary of State has said there is a great interest in the adoption of this law. That's incorrect. There is a public concern for the state of general security and a requirement to strengthen general security, which, unfortunately, by this law alone, we will not be able to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46658	Have you done a survey among the citizens? Okay. The committee's rapporteurs. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is a respected representative of Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46659	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 51st session held on 9 November 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and value, with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the board shall be informed of the reasons and interests for which the adoption of the law in question is proposed by an urgent procedure. The applicant's representative states that during the observed period, there was a significant increase in the number of muggings committed in banks despite significant... the activities of the police in the fight against robbery and the enhanced supervision of the application of the Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and value. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, for the purpose of increasing the security of monetary institutions, new minimum security conditions of protection are introduced to the proposed legislative amendments and give authority to police officers to enter the business premises of a monetary institution to check that the prescribed protection measures are implemented. The Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and does not object to the proposal to adopt this law by an urgent procedure because it assesses that the law represents the legitimate interest of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, in order to increase the level of security of monetary institutions and, in particular, to the safety of their employees and parties, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and values in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46660	Thank you. We're moving on to a debate. We've got four clubs and six individual debates, and I'd like to inform you that it will work without a break and we'll vote in 15 hours. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of Sima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46661	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State! I have to say right away in the beginning that I don't really know how to talk about this paper. Why? Because listening to the Prime Minister in the current class, listening to the secretary of state now and reading this paper, I don't really understand where the truth is. The State Secretary himself now said in the introduction that criminals are becoming more brutal and that we have an increasing increase in the crime of a serious character. Now, when I read this paper, when I look at the statistics, it looks like we have these crimes in the fall, and that's when it comes to these criminal acts in a good fall, that we have a solution, that we don't actually have brutal attacks because the use of the gun has fallen by 90, the use of the knife for 38, even the rifles for four. Now, if we do, be careful when it comes to money in these eight months, as much as 5 million kunas were stolen less than last year. Now watch out, and in the introduction again we have a finding in that law to face this increase. Now I don't understand. Did the Home Office send us the wrong stats or do we have the wrong grades? However, if those assessments are wrong without a good basis, then they are created at the level of some kind of perception, a public idea. I'd actually say that it seems to me that this law is unnecessary, in this form we don't need it. We need something else, I'll say the same thing. This law is unnecessary, because I think whether it's legal matter, whether the door turns to this side, the other side, whether it has to be 2 cm thick, or the height of the barrier in a bank must be 6 cm and 6 m. No, it's actually a matter of sublegal act, and I think how that could have been solved so far. It seems to me, in fact, that this paper is on the trail of political rhetoric that is now under way in the sense that the public is shown that this government is great at fighting crime. At the same time, the more determined the government is, the louder rhetoric is, the more and more often we are witnessing heavy robberies. So you've got this, so we're gonna skin criminals when we catch them, we're gonna be brutal, I mean watch out, the Ministry of the Interior should understand that the police aren't the ones who judge, the police are just bringing them in, they're the suspects until they get to court and until they have a final verdict, they're not guilty. There should be a lot of caution in those statements, and I'm not going back to the guy's statements, let's just say the police are going to stand for the death penalty. It's the same as the story of long pipes. ... The police couldn't use long pipes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does that mean, watch out, and now 2,000 cops have what's called gun access, different from cops to police officers, and now I don't count them all together. Because it actually means that now every day on the streets we will have cops with rifles, because every day, especially in Zagreb, one or more, one or more robberies happen. I don't think that's good. It's not a good message. And I think that it is unnecessary for us, at least in this House, or that we should all be in the interest of not actually making any political announcements, because this is nothing but a political declaration, but actually to sit down and, let's say, get a report on police work for 2004 and, on the basis of that safety report, we actually make some concrete conclusions. It's all in our best interest to have as few robberies as possible, but it's not in everyone's interest to just stay on rhetoric, so, on, especially political rhetoric. I'm still kind of trying to be more honest and more acceptable to you political rhetoric than this repressive rhetoric. When I hear some of the Home Office leaders threatening, I have to tell you that I'm scared too. I'm scared, but I assure you, criminals don't get scared. And it's a terrible French syndrome. In the Ministry of the Interior, they should know that robbery is not terrorism, and that robbery has nothing to do with terrorism and that robbery cannot be answered as a threat to national interests. It's an alphabet. And I'm afraid, you know, I think we should learn something about French syndrome. It's the best example of how repression when it comes to street riots gives birth to repression. A minister's statements and his visit to the police station in that neighborhood actually produced 10 days later a riot. I think it would actually be a good idea for us to sit here together in the Parliament and talk about not just this subject, there are more. The secretary of state says there's been an increase in resolution. It's true that there's been an increase in resolution in this case. But look at the state's attorney's statistics, and you'll see how much has grown since criminal charges from the police against unknown perpetrators so-called. MN. And also when you see how much the percentage of rejections of criminal charges that the police are raising you'll actually have and you'll have a full picture of efficiency and police. So why are we changing the law that gave the results? Because according to what it says here, therefore, the law that has been in force so far has contributed to the number of reductions in criminal offences. I'm fenced if this statistic is correct. Here. It's interesting, it's interesting to say this tabular display around the county. I can't figure it out, and nobody can convince me that in Sibenik, for example, last year, there was only one robbery. It's from the kiosk to the National Bank. Or that there were only seven of them this year, and let's just say I don't mention any others, Dubrovnik. Do you know how long it's Dubrovnik? So in two years, in the first eight months past and eight months this year, three robberies. That's impossible. Now there's something else I don't understand. When the reported crimes are summed up, let's say for 2005, you have 734, when I turn the first page, then I read that there were 931, I'm missing 200 and something. However, if I add the ones that were trying, again I miss 84, I would ask the Secretary of State to explain in fact how these differences are possible in this statistics and then again that there are possible differences in what is interpreted, interpreted and actually explained in the text itself, in the very text of the law. Now look, I also don't know when you look at the structure where the most money was taken away, then you'll see, it's on page 4, you'll see that you have it under you, it's about 10 million kuna, you've been stolen in 8 months this year. Now, watch out, and in this law you have no word about the rest, because the largest number and monetary and numerical happens to you, shops, gas stations, apartments, streets, etc. Now, that's a key argument that this law will not contribute to a 0,01 promil reduction in the number of crimes. So I think it's another argument, that it's another argument actually that we should already, if we want a law like this, I have nothing against it, but in this form, and like this, I don't think we need it. And the SDP club just can't support this law. We would be happy to support one too much paper that guarantees as much to us and Croatian citizens as it does to reduce the number of robberies, i.e. a higher level of security. But there's something like this we can't accept. Why? Because this cannot be used and this will not apply to you. And if it's applied, it won't have the effect that the proposer expects it to have. And I could lower, maybe a few examples. I don't think it's necessary to take in this law that these are securities. In Croatia, there are some other institutions and other laws in Croatia where they are defined as securities. It would be a little awkward if the Home Office would define what they would treat as securities. There's something that's securities and everything that goes into securities, actually, it's numbered there, and it thinks it should apply to this law. I don't see the same reason why the Department of Defense, the Ministry of Interior should be exempt from the application of this law. I mean, you have no argument that these spaces are completely secure. I don't know what the statistics are now, but it exists, let's say how many cars are stolen in the parking lot outside the police station, etc., etc. Therefore, perhaps even the Ministry of the Interior should first apply this law to itself to show, by example, that the others would already be if... We should, we should apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we get to the fact that a police officer will be able to enter the banks. Or they won't be able to get in, that's interesting. Watch out for the banks they won't be able to get into, they won't be able to get into the FINA and the National Bank. So why? Because it's clear to all of us that normal banking houses are very sensitive because when someone hears the police come in, they're going right away to raise their savings. What about the housing savings, what about the post office? So what about all those institutions where there's also savings, where there's also a secret? And actually when you see that the most endangered are the banks and the FINA and the FINA business because if you look at where this number of robberies is actually growing drastically then you'll see that these banks are still there a police officer can't get in. Well, let me tell you. I'm in favour of a police officer not getting in anywhere. To institutions like this. There's inspections, there's bodies, there's procedures to do that. I don't think it's a good idea for police officers to go into money houses. Connecting actually certain criteria on the degree of protection. According to the number of employees, you know what the kid's gonna do to you? Let's say all those who had 5, 6, 7 employees in some bookies and savings would also shrink to below 5. Well, then they're walking right into someone else, into another rank, and then they're going to have to spend less on the insurance level. I say I could do a lot more. I mean, if it goes with this law. It shows that one part is prescribed from an old explanation, the other part is not. So that's where you write that you're throwing out your housing savings because it's all about all the savings. You are left with housing savings and so on and so on. So I propose to the Proposer to consider a little bit first, the first possibility that seems to me it won't be realistic, which is that this law is withdrawn. However, given that according to what it says, we will survive by the end of the year, and instead of starting this Law and thus starting, it will not be before 1.1, and by 1.1 we can have another reading I suggest that the Proposer accept the SDP's proposal that this law go into another reading and then that the 15, 2 weeks, 3 weeks actually be used to correct the law. I don't actually have, I don't know if it makes sense to go through the amendments at all. So let's say that someone under the jurisdiction of the police administration forbids some kind of money house. You know what that means? This means that whoever brings it can cause more damage to that house than to rob it. It says 60 days. Imagine a business office one post office or business of some savings company closed for 60 days. Not even an inspector can bring it on his own. Let alone some police station under the patronage. Let's just say the Czech Slavonic where there's been no robbery in two years. None of them are registered. Now, if you're going with this, then I suggest you at least go and prove it's just first-class police stations and everything else goes under the Ministry. But since obviously the secretary doesn't care what I'm saying, I'll thank you, and I'll ask... And it's time, isn't it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm going to ask her to accept this proposal anyway, and then some suggestions will make some sense and go to the amendments. And I suggest, in fact, I suggest that one, one good analysis of all these measures that were proposed here and those that existed and how much it's really justified. For the application of one of these, such a law that will cost the state nothing but cost many institutions would be good at preparing to get their consent and support, but as far as we had the opportunity to hear in public, none of these monetary institutions have actually given any support, clearly because it will cost them anything. They estimate that it will likely cost them more than it will cost them to apply that insurance, so perhaps you should consider connecting the whole story with the insurance company. Insurance companies that some European countries know. This means that a person who does not have a prescribed degree of security cannot secure his assets in certain insurance companies But it all requires a more serious, more studio-based approach. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46662	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46663	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Namely, a colleague of Luchin based his discussion on a series of incorrect allegations. The law is unnecessary, useless. It is evident that banks are saving on the protection they have to introduce in their home countries. Then he says he's absolutely blaming the allegations that the banks will have a repression against the banks. In our case, this means that the riots would start in the suburbs if the police caught the robbers or if the robbers came across the thick glass in the banks. And finally the media claims the banks found lobbyists among the clubs in the Parliament. Here's what I trust. To keep the law from being clearly accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46664	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46665	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Shima. First, he said that applying this law would cost nothing. It will cost at least a billion kuna if everyone in question is taken into account, and it will cost both the state budget directly and directly. For example, Croatian mail will have to spend at least 150 million kuna and this is directly related to the state budget. The second correction to an incorrect quote is probably a lapse. Mr. Lucin said that police officers should be banned from entering the bank. So how will he raise his wages? You probably didn't mean that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46666	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46667	Thank you very much. I have listened to you, and I have tried to record some of your most difficult qualifications as far as this law is concerned, so I will try and answer you. I did not mean to enter the controversy because I felt that there was indeed a justification for taking new measures that should contribute both to the prevention and repression of these serious crimes. In the end, you said it needed a more studio approach. Then you didn't listen to me very well. I've just said that the passing of this law will be just one of the stones in the mosaic of the other measures we're going to implement. That we'll talk to both banks and security companies and all the other entities that have a kind of interest here, a place and a role. Therefore, we do not intend to solve this problem ourselves. And now about those things that you said that robbery wasn't terrorism, that repression was giving birth to repression. That the police shouldn't go into monetary institutions. So it turns out that the police should follow peacefully, helplessly what's going on, respect all the rights as you say the suspect. Not criminals, but suspects. I'll tell you that these are the criminals who were tried for, as perpetrators of these crimes, and I'll just ask if they're innocent convicts or suspects of the people who killed two security guards in FINA. Who, who killed one exchange shop employee in Nedelisce on 6.10.2004. Who killed a pregnant woman in Prelog on January 20, 2003. These are the most brutal examples and cases where the perpetrators of these crimes have shown their indifference. You have also commented on this and we will not apply any illegal measures to them, but we will certainly be as sharp and reprisal as the Law on the Police and Criminal Law and the Law on Criminal Procedure allow. You also commented on the statistics, and you said that the statistics with the right state were not in line, or that my rhetoric and statistics were contrary to what the prime minister said. I'm going to tell you that I have data on the number of felony counts from 1990 to 2005, and those crimes are definitely on the rise. In 1990, we had 484 crimes of robbery, so that in 2004 it would increase to a thousand 504 crimes, that is, for the first ten months of this year to 995 crimes. I think these figures speak for themselves enough that these crimes are in significant growth. I'll also tell you that there's been one interesting thing that this statistic can support. In 2002, a significant, very significant increase in the number of criminal acts of robbery occurred from 722 acts in 2001 to a thousand 85 crimes in 2002 meant an increase of almost 40%. I'm just going to warn you and remind you that in 2001 you fired two and a half thousand police officers, that you've abolished a series of police stations, that you've abolished a series of patrol and patrol districts, that you've brought your changes to the fact that the police have been less and less and less on the street and that they've been doing less and less of their jobs, as you say in a repressive manner. These are the facts and data we take care of. You can check them very easily, and you know them yourself, and it doesn't occur to us that we're watching with our hands cut off as criminals become more and more ruthless, and we're becoming more brutal, and we're seeing it peacefully, or we're not applying repressive methods. We will apply all the repressive methods allowed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Criminal Law and the Law on the Police, especially to the perpetrators of these most severe crimes where they suffer in recent times human lives and where the perpetrators show until then, unprecedented brutality. We will not threaten anyone unfounded but we will consistently apply all the legal instruments at our disposal. First of all, for the benefit of citizens who are for a reason concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46668	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46669	I'm correcting the incorrect allegations about the number of crimes in 2002. I'm surprised the secretary of state, who's the secretary of state, doesn't know that in 2002, the change in the KZ has led to a change in the nomenclature. In 2002, there was a fall in criminal offences but by changing the nomenclature, the number increased. Mr. Secretary of State, everything you've been talking about, statistics, I've read from the material that you've written and sent and the final correction of the quote. Please stay away, you don't know who robbed the bank until the court proves it to him. There's... How about you, say, you arrest me now, and there you're yelling my skin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're yelling at my skin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46670	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46671	And after that, the court frees me. How can that be?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46672	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46673	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club imitates the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and values with the Final Proposal of the Law. There are a lot of arguments in favour of the need to pass this law, and certainly the first and most important reason is to increase the safety of workers who carry out work with cash and value, as well as the security of all citizens who use money institutions' services. When data are analysed on the structure of the crimes committed by the robbery, it is evident that the largest number of robberies has been done on the streets, shops and bookshops. It's clear why. Why is it that the street, the store and the bookies are the most common target of the perpetrators of these crimes? Because at the same time, they're the most unprotected places to carry out a robbery. Especially worrying is the rise of bank muggings. True, it is small businesses that did not have adequate protection, but that is exactly a good indication of the justification for the adoption of this law and the urgency of the procedure. In addition to all this, the increasing indifference and brutality of the perpetrators of these crimes, which unfortunately ended in the wound, including the death of the employees of monetary institutions. Together, we all expect the effectiveness of the police in detecting and suppressing all crimes, but at the same time we are obliged to create conditions for the successful action of the police and through prevention. As the applicable law does not prescribe all necessary protection measures, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on minimum protection measures for monetary institutions will increase the minimum protection of monetary institutions, which will ultimately result in greater security for employees, cash users and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For these reasons, here is the Croatian Democratic Community club to support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46674	Thank you. And the name of the HNS Club is Honorable Representative Srecko Ferenčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46675	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable colleague of the Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm listening to Mr. Buconjic, so now he says we'll consult monetary institutions, we'll consult banks, we'll consult security guards. Well, the problem is that the other day, at the beginning of this session, we asked for an emergency procedure to be withdrawn. What should have been done before you passed a law like this that won't even get the right results. He's throwing dust in people's eyes. We're taking care of security, so let's get some law passed. We don't need a law that isn't effective. We're discussing them here, and in the end, they're using none of that. Then I listen to Mr. Secretary, make an excellent diagnosis, and then I take all the measures of completely guilty therapy. So this law certainly won't get the positive effects we expect from a single law. Even before, only a year ago was passed the Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and values. It hasn't been a year, and we're changing it. Well, I don't understand how this government is working to change its laws any minute now. So he's not thinking enough about what's going on. Therefore, neither the proposal nor the consultation of professional and educated people were consulted, nor were the consultants involved in the debate of users, bankers, security guards. And a law like this can't get the right results. He won't be effective. The fact is that the presence of a security guard is the strongest measure that can be taken to reduce the risk of muggings, however, such a maximum measure has already recognised Croatia by its rules which are mandatory to apply in the areas of the highest category of threat under the Regulation, conditions and method of implementation of technical protection. However, the introduction of armed guards into banks' facilities may be reduced, but their brutality will certainly be higher. In the largest case, security guards will be the first victims of such a robbery. It is sad and unreasonable that today when we have the opportunity to convey the best experiences of other countries and to make the mistakes of others, the legislator reaches for inefficient measures that will only burden and upset the public, and advanced countries have long given up such measures solely because of bad experiences. The most important link, we talked about prevention. The most important link on the security of financial institutions is the judiciary that must play its part in the success of the repressive system and send a message to potential perpetrators of all criminal offences that crime cannot be paid. This is none of your business, Mr. Secretary, but the Ministry of Justice remains deaf to the initiative to tighten penalties for bank robberies and other such financial and monetary institutions. That's where the state was supposed to intervene. It's a key factor in the prevention of robbery. Robbery sanctions are more than mild. The right prevention measure is to give the maximum sentence for trying to rob a bank for 40 years so let's see who goes for a couple hundred thousand kunas dare rob a bank if it hangs 40 years above its head. That's where the state needs to intervene and not suffer things that don't really concern them. In addition, as far as you're concerned, Mr. Secretary of State, less than 10% of the cases have been solved have been captured and punished by attackers and robbers, so it is a solution to this ineffectiveness because it is the primary and important concern of the ruling. The failure of the repressive system is to maintain order and legality. There can be no justification for the state's request to turn business premises into fortifications and islands at all a security threat to the state by crime at all. If the State fails in this fight, it cannot and must not transfer responsibility and care to business entities. It is important to stress that all banks in the first place protect life and health both clients and employees while they are values, so money is only of secondary importance. The Western European countries have solved this problem with an example of an open concept of protection, as our banks are now particularly intruding where in the central open room they hold fewer amounts of money and employees have an indication that in the event of a robbery, they provide no resistance but to give the money sought. In this way, banks knowingly enter the risk of material loss in favour of protecting the health of their employees and clients. In addition, the resulting damages are neither borne by a client nor by a state and at least by our own state which has already sold these banks cheaply. And that's why it's even more unreasonable to have this kind of interference... to the collapse of such a system which has proved to be effective and effective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to such an open banking system go technical protection measures but not as proposed by the Government with bunkers and machine guns around banks but smart and sophisticated methods of electronic protection as safes with... By opening, interlocking locks where one door opens and doesn't let you in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So modern communication systems with image and tone connected directly to the ministry or the guard's house and a lot of such technical details that I don't now list which then prevent or facilitate the capture of robbers after such an action. The next thing in this House of Commons, everyone swears they take care of the workers, all kinds of health departments, social services, families, all taking care of the workers. No one in this bill has even been more concerned about what's going on with those officers who work there in a bank or any other monetary institution. So let's say, I'll tell you, if a person who works at a bank, has four years of work experience, so this guy comes and shoots her, so a woman goes or a man retires, a job injury gets a thousand and 200 kuna. Is that what you care about a worker? None of the rulings have thought to talk, he says we'll talk about it later, what we'll talk about, Mr. Buconjic. That prior to the adoption of this law, they are talking to the unions of these employees so that they may help them and suggest that they should intervene in the Labour Protection Act or in the Labour Act, to introduce mandatory insurance for the lives of those employees, to give them mandatory rest after such things that people do not have to go to sick leave when they are shocked by such robberies. That's not what you were thinking. Is it? Well, I don't see it. You may have thought about it, but you didn't tell us that. Yours is to give us one set of laws, a change that will be effective. Then again, we pass a law that we know in advance cannot be fulfilled. He says you have to do it within six months. We are all witnessing that banks in Croatia have also begun to renew their businesses on the principle of modern banking of an open type. It's technically impossible to make the required adjustments within six months. So why do we bring a law that cannot be done? What we're going to close banks and monetary institutions if they can't do that, and the police are going to shut it down. Well, it's not the police's job. I mean, where are we going? From all the above mentioned club HNS cannot support such a bill, but we suggest calling the profession, the knowers and all interested in this business. We suggest that you withdraw this bill or put it in a regular procedure so that later we can fix a law that will be the best and most effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46676	Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative of Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46677	Well, here's the thing, dear colleague Ferencak said that no one cares about the guards who got hurt, no one cares about the workers, and that's why this law is being passed to reduce the risk and not to cause the most serious injuries of the employees who work in monetary institutions, but also the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46678	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46679	Thank you very much. I simply have to react because this law tries to challenge arguments that simply do not stand. Mr. Ferenchak said what this government does when it changes laws all the time. The government is monitoring how life in the country develops and the government reacts to phenomena that disrupt citizens' security. And we will react every time we feel that there is a need to react to negative events in society, every time we react. There is no law that can predict how things will develop, especially in crime over the next ten years. I've already said if you've listened well to me that criminals are becoming more organized, more brutal, more sophisticated, more sophisticated, whether we should scratch, watch, and do nothing. That is why we are changing the law and changing both these and other laws whenever there is a need in life to prescribe new measures to ensure greater security for citizens. You're also saying no one's taking care of workers, so you're proposing insurance policies. I agree, it needs banks as employers in a way to make a commitment because they make huge profits. And we did talk to them, and we did talk to the owners of security companies, and we did talk to the profession, we didn't propose these measures by heart. And if you were listening, I said that, I repeat, this law should only be one stone in the mosaic of the other measures we negotiate, we will not negotiate, which we agree, and if it is necessary to amend the laws and regulations to implement them. We are aware that in this way security guards in monetary institutions are what you say the victims or targets are. We will propose to the security companies that the way they perform their service is organised differently in order to be more efficient and not question the lives of the guards. We will also look for solutions to be as exposed as possible to officials in monetary institutions and clients found in these monetary institutions. Therefore, our goal is not just to repress what you said was repression for the sake of repression. The aim is to reach a comprehensive set of measures that will primarily act demotively on the perpetrators, which will allow the police to be more effective in finding if the work already happens and the employees of monetary institutions, security company employees and citizens' clients are as exposed as possible to the deaths in the conduct of their business, i.e. services in the bank, exchange office, post office or anywhere else. We are aware that all measures are risky and do not occur to us to implement one measure that will potentially protect employees and, on the other hand, expose the increased danger or brutality of security guards or clients. No, we're not gonna do that. When prescribing all measures, we will take care that we do not needlessly expose any category of these people in this situation to the rules of procedure of the FINE, the mail, the bank, any other monetary institution to which this Law applies. It's not easy. But that's why we're talking to everyone who's involved first and foremost in these activities and all those who know something about it, who can give us good and smart solutions. So make sure we change this law in five months if we need to. We will change other laws when we see and notice that some things in society are developing in a way that was not possible to predict... Because what Mr. Lucin said, I agree, yes, they are not formally legal terrorists, as he said, are not the perpetrators of these crimes, but they are the perpetrators of crimes that deserve the harshest repression. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And repression gives birth to repression. Well, because criminals are getting more and more repressive, I don't want them to increase the repression. No, no, we will respond by means of legal means, I repeat again, by means of legal means, not legal means, we will respond by all the means available to us to act on the perpetrators but to protect maximum security, I repeat, and employees of monetary institutions, and employees of security companies and citizens who are at that moment at the site of the works committed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46680	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Ferenchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46681	Well, I would have corrected Mr. Secretary of State, so I didn't say the government wasn't reacting and not following the situation but reacting the wrong way. ... the wrong measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm with you sir... I agree with everything you say, but we differ in realisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The laws aren't... Every month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said, we'll talk to the guards, now you said, we'll talk to the bankers. Talk. So why do you bring the law before you cook something?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46682	Thank you. We can't discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46683	Talk to people and then say... Well, that's the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46684	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46685	Thank you very much. It's incorrect that I said that it stemmed from Mr. Secretary of State's allegations that criminals should not be persecuted. With a little comparison that it was terrorists, I said it was a comparison with long pipes. I assure you that the prevention of robbery and the solution to robbery will be better resolved by a good credential network than by a long weapon. That shows some experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46686	Thank you. Dear Representative Lesar. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46687	Thank you very much. Part of the claim that the repression is causing repression and that the perpetrators deserve the most severe punishments. Mr. Secretary of State, you're right. However, the problem is just that,......... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46688	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46689	I am correcting the State Secretary's claim that this bill is in a position to strengthen repression because repression strengthens repression and deserves the strictest sanctions, penalties. He mentioned an example of Prelog in 2002 where a pregnant cashier was killed in a bank. The trial is over. How many perpetrators and what sanctions he received from the Croatian judiciary. The measures you are doing, which you are now offering, which we are trying to help you to be as good as possible, compared to that example, nothing changes, and after all, he will get five years in prison.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46690	Thank you. Let's move on. The club HSP, the esteemed Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46691	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The state of national security and, above all, the general security of Croatian citizens in Croatia is getting worse. And therefore it is justified and concerned and afraid of Croatian citizens and asks us to settle this matter urgently, means that the general security situation that a person can normally go to FINU without a fear of paying the bill, especially the pensioners, because we know that the fees are lower. And we at the HSP Club every day have more and more of these questions about when something effective will take place. We would be the happiest in the HSP Club, as probably all Croatian citizens would if this law had obtained the planned achievements of what the Prime Minister told us the other day and what stands in it, unfortunately it will not, we must be aware that this law will not take what we think, or what the Government says it will take. Surely one thing is that he'll get someone to earn up to a billion kuna. Why? Because Article 4 needs to get all that equipment. Who's that, I don't know. It is true what the Secretary of State said, that there is no direct share, that no new funds will have to be allocated from the budget, but I say the indirect budget loses funds if you have in mind that it will also apply to Croatian mail, i.e. the Croatian Post Bank, the Croatian Post Bank, it will all cost, for example, 300 million kuna what is needed from Article 4. Therefore, the problem is that the government has a mustache unfortunately caused, cause and consequences. In order to improve the state of general security and to achieve the prevention he spoke of and well said today by the secretary of state in relation to what he writes, this is just a pebble and that's right. ... should be done next. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we gave, the HSP Club. First we have to, so... I'm saying reviewing the national security strategy, the national security strategy is a dead letter on paper, neither is anyone reading it, nor is anyone implementing it, nor is it enforceable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand. That is why we gave this request at the beginning of 9 months to review the national security strategy, but the Committee on Internal Policy, in breach of its Rules of Procedure, does not hold a thematic session. We've also given the procedure and the parliamentary conclusion to commit to the government to proceed with this procedure. It didn't come to the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure. So we must be aware that the main factor of security is the comparison between the relationship of the Croatian citizen, the trust in the police equipped police, the equipped police, that is the most important. The equipped police would be smarter if all bankers would separate these billions of kunas for police equipment and the rule of law. And that doesn't mean that when the police arrest or, say, misapply criminal charges, that suspect who committed robbery or other acts, the second day is released. Now that's also the rule of law. Then only a team would mean measures from these three areas together could achieve what we have to do to prevent the first thing that is related to ourselves, namely, we have problems both on the issue of the formation and operation of the Croatian police at the moment. We discussed this on the Committee on the Interior and National Security of the Croatian Party's rights and kept the following. So regardless of official statistics, the increase in severe crime is obvious. Especially the rise in delicacies of settlements, organised crime and corruption. In public, normal silence, anxiety, and that feeling. The success of disclosing and quality data collection is not satisfactory and we know it ourselves. Police must move from anti-active to a proactive action that will first and foremost prevent criminal offences. Under the current conditions, this has been questioned specifically due to the disappearance of a police officer from the street. In particular, this is a problem, for example, in Zagreb. Territorial distribution, police administration follows the county structure. But the counties are unequal by population, size of territory, economic strength and others. The uniqueness of access is not justified. The reduction in numbers and the formation of, say, regional police administrations from 6 to 8 would be significantly cheaper. In addition, it would allow about 300 police officers to take over other operational operations immediately instead of administrative ones. Some of the news has been imported by fashion signs in the structure of the police without a critical view of the real situation. Three such examples are important: the number of units of the intervention police excessively expensive and with no targeted effect. Let's say this happened in Berlin, for example, it needs the intervention police units because it is a German model but the question of whether it should be in Bjelovar, Požega, Virovitica or Gospić or Punta where it will always be able to react. Then enough is the question of police equipment. So she's equipped and trained to be the only special police officer known as Lucko. We need to be aware of that. By reducing the number of police administrations, reducing the number of units of the intervention police to, say, 4 to 5 of the largest police administrations would have returned a significant number of police officers to the street, among citizens and thus the function of prevention and repression would have increased significantly. Part of an intervention special police officer should be deployed to the border. We know that crime comes to us from outside not only within Croatia. Furthermore, the number of police officers in the Republic of Croatia is too high. It is recommended by the European Union that a quota of 350 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants is desirable. That's what we know. It's in us according to the 450 statistics. And there's no cop on the street at the same time. The discrepancies are due to an excessive number of administrative staff. That's the part of the discrepancy and this whole administration. It's at least over 20 and something percent is in the administration. And that's our fault. Because, unfortunately, the police are doing jobs that aren't purely police business. The police, according to the laws that we're making for jobs that aren't purely police business, are wasting a lot of time and everything else. And what's the big deal here? So the concept of police work in the Croatian community is quickly, unplanned and partially introduced. It needs to be carefully and thoroughly examined and elaborated on the specificities of application in Croatian society. His negative effect is to lose the traditional sectoral officer who's in... the activity was a security factor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not replaced by the appropriate actions of a police officer in the community. This is a critical point of public security that citizens feel even though official reports try to show things in a completely different light. Now, if we take the second part of what's important to police work, it's both the structure and the preparation. We normally have to do this during the course of time. We're just, let's just say, about 60% of high-skilled police officers don't have a specific education that matters to the police. Croatia allows, for example, the situation to be said that the requirement for jobs is the higher and particularly responsible, higher or higher professional readinesss are sought. Thus, a mass-prosecuted class teacher's diploma is represented in one police administration. Therefore, all of this has an impact and therefore we must act within that structure. And now that whatever was said before and it's said today, what happens is that the police would act, they would do their thing, but it's not legally settled. It's not legally settled how she should have all the powers and all this. Well, that looks like when a sprinter goes on, runs 100 meters and loses and says that the track was 120 meters, maybe I would have won. Thus, there are many such things and problems that we need to take all measures in parallel. This won't accomplish what we want. Now if you take the text of the law yourself, see article 4, we told him exactly, who's thinking of dealing with robbery and these things that he needs, what can he count on when he comes into a monetary institution? She was just missing, say, a code in the safe to start with those numbers. He's got two men to find out on his own. It's not done anywhere like this. Normally, the conditions that banks have to have, like these, must be prescribed. Normally, it has to be kept in mind whether it is possible to open a currency exchange, a bookie, in view of the possibility of protection and all other things. Therefore, it should be coordinated. It remains particularly important also in this article on 10th, he says, "temporarily prohibiting the work of a monetary institution that does not remove the established regularity that the ministry has done to them." We would advocate at the HSP Club for such a solution if banks that interest Croatian citizens were closed. And then we'd advocate a solution like this, but this is a matter of question and how much, if such a single solution is made and no legal conditions are obtained, how much damage can it be for the state budget, or if every bank goes to suit, and normally if it is determined that the state has made a mistake, or the ministry, that official of the state has to bear it all. And this part about this deadline, I think this six-month deadline is too short. So I think we need to be serious and responsible. The achievements of this law are not what is planned, and we must already begin today with all these things that we are in the name of the HSP Club that I have brought here. And we're proposing, and I'm saying we put ourselves in the process of the appropriate projects that I've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46692	Thank you. Dear Representative Rebić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46693	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative and counterpart Kovacevic claimed that Croatia has more police officers than the European average allegedly due to administrative staff. Of course, according to the latest information, it is not true because all countries have excluded border police from the total number of police officers, please nicely, all countries have excluded border police from the total number of police officers. Given the length of the Croatian border, so if we were to be exempt from the border police, then the average in the Republic of Croatia would be far below the European average, and Mr. Lucin then you shouldn't be the minister who was on the longest strike in Mark's square. Because you didn't need so many cops actually... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in your term of office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46694	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, you've given up... Dear Representative Markovanovic. [[I don't understand the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46695	Thank you. So here is the context of Mr Kovacevic's presentation on the reconstruction of the Croatian police, along the way he mentioned banks and besides the rest of the poor banks, someone will earn up to a billion kuna. It's not gonna make any money. Because imports, glass will be introduced from the outside where their seats are originating, there it's done typically. So that's where they do it regularly, but we're going to make a living because our officers, our security guards, are going to invest out of that huge gain and something in protection here. And it would be good for our economy to earn something, so here's if it works out.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46696	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46697	It is an incorrect quote from counterpart Kovacevic who said that the national security strategy is not being implemented, that no one is reading it and that it is unimplementable. The most important strategic definition of this national security strategy is to seek national security in collective integration. Integrations that enable collective security are absolutely working on all state policy institutions from the Ministry of Defence. However, we will not be admitted to NATO as planned in 2007, but this most important provision of the National Security Strategy is applied and applied and, of course, it means that this strategy is also readable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46698	Thank you. In Article 207(2), the time has elapsed for application for individual hearings. On behalf of the DC Club of HSLS, the esteemed representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46699	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The DC club of HSLS will support this bill. We clearly agree with some of the remarks made here, however, because the situation is urgent, that we need to react quickly, so we will also give our vote and support to this bill. A while ago, you all witnessed that the government reacted sharply to the outbreak of bird flu in Croatia. A while ago, you witnessed that the government reacted sharply to the outbreak of bird flu in Croatia. A couple of swans and several birds came and warned the entire European and Croatian public about the danger and the state reacted so responsibly and quickly. Clearly, in this action, many innocent chickens were killed in a preventive way. And now that we have this picture in front of us and this other picture that, in the streets and in certain monetary institutions, our citizens are killed in one brutal way, they're almost shot. Then he's actually asking about the government's expectation that he's also strong and high-quality reacting to that fact where innocent citizens are killed, where their property is affected. We are also aware that this law cannot, however perfect, involve all these experts alone as such to resolve the issue of security and citizens and their property in monetary institutions. The question arises why people attack, why the citizens, why the bandits go like in these monetary institutions? So the answer to that question would probably lead to real reasons why this phenomenon is spreading in Croatia. Surely this law means in itself that it will not be able to cover all those aspects, aspects of security. Which is why it comes to our assessment and assessment of such procedures, why the money is so wanted, why the increase is marred over the facilities and employees of monetary companies, precisely because it means money remains one of the most wanted goods. The hunger for this money has especially increased in terms of economic crises and economic disturbances. There, they actually did us during education, primary, secondary and university that actually money was created in production. But he's not enough in the production, he's somewhere retired to safety, he's retired, he's in the banks, it's one perception in public. However, whether or not it is safe enough to show and these spells devastate that it is not as safe there as it is. When you ask someone to raise you a project says there's money, it's money, says banks are full of money, you just come with a quality program and a quality project and actually with some kind of quality project, and that money will be a little better. That's more or less all economists point and speak. But we can't get to that time, to the point where there's going to be a quality band. Now, as people, citizens who don't have enough money, as they perceive. If money cannot be obtained by soap, it means work and employment and quality projects and programs, then it can actually be obtained by force. This guides us to many films, the modern way of communication is actually so fast that such examples from the world very quickly show us on our television screens. So it's possible to get to him with a fright and... So what it costs to cost, none of them actually give a shit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's supposed to care now? There should actually be concern, the state has to take care of it. Furthermore, the more economic and social image is more difficult, the more decomposition in these transition times, the greater the desire for money. This irresistible desire for money strengthens and one perception in the public that money can get everything, that money can become a respectable member of the community, whether the money is the result of work or intelligence or knowledge. In the past ten years, some today's owners of monetary companies and institutions have come to money and ownership in monetary institutions and companies in a legally suspicious and immoral manner. We often listened to various epithets, read in the newspaper that many of these companies, i.e. companies, were found to be found in Liechtenstein interest. This system, or the process of sucking money from many companies into such monetary institutions, was unfortunately our cruel reality. The consequences are known to all of us that there has been the collapse of many companies, extra employees, or people who were employed by them, have suddenly become unemployed and have been registered at unemployment services. On the basis of this, a perception prevailed in the public that in fact one wish for the state to take that money, the citizens estimated that money was taken in one immoral way. In this direction and in this home she was led, there was a debate on the revision, on the conversion of privatisation, and we were actually giving hope to the citizens that this money would be taken away in some way, that justice would be served. If not the state, then someone else will do it and how I came up with it in my own way, Croatian Robin Hood or his version comes up on stage. That is, as they say in Dalmatia's Property, Hajduk Andrijas Andrijaca Simic, who is taking away those who took away paradise, is bringing that back to heaven. Unfortunately, in these abductions, I say in quotes there is an accident of innocent and innocent citizens. The data says that this year we had an increase in the number of mail robberies by 33%, gas stations by 19%, the number of robbery raids on the street by 12%. Last year, we had 13 bank robberies all year, and this year there were 28 of them in the first nine months. And after the most severe and brutal mugging raid on the office of FINA in Zagreb, as well as the brutal mugging raid on the Zagreb bank's business, also here in Zagreb, all the bells rang at the alarm. Any more careful analyst of the general and national security system could conclude that such robberies could occur at any time in this socio-psychological framework that we live in. By the amount of insolence, weight, so far in Croatia, unrecorded brutality, burglary at the office of FINA, I show that the perpetrators of the most serious crimes perceiving our system of security with all its constituents. They don't see him as an obstacle, they don't respect him, so the security system doesn't stop the bandits from attacking the lives and assets of the citizens anymore. The Government's reaction to this situation is also this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and values. Why are we talking about minimum measures in the name of this law? It's like we want to apologize to someone. And so far, we've had a minimum measure law, and what have we got? Robbery, robbery, wounding and uncertainty. What benefit is there from minimum measures to the one killed by a friend, a workmate, or a family member? What good is it to citizens who lose their money? What good is the country where life and property are growing insecurity? And so far, the judiciary has prosecuted those that the police would have discovered and arrested, but unfortunately crime is repeating itself again in a more brutal and organised form. It means that there is no need to talk here about the minimum but about the necessary measures to be implemented. And the necessary measures should be determined by those who are professional, who know, who are responsible, who are responsible for this fact. The responsible State shall establish a system of measures necessary to protect citizens and their assets. The DC Club, the HSLS, believes it is necessary to change the approach to this problem in a way that changes the concept of the security system, as well as how the law is implemented. So far reports in this material, we have 843 and inspection surveillance has been carried out 16 numbers, have confirmed that the existing Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash has not respected. Many do business with large amounts of money, although they have not even organised minimum protection measures. The security system should therefore be reorganised and imported as a pro-active system which will make proposals to monetary institutions and control how they implement their legal obligations of protection. A situation in which rich and international corporations, domestic, private and public monetary institutions, are found not to implement the prescribed protection measures, which favour the bandits should be interrupted. Their interest cannot end up in the fact that in the event of a robbery, the insurance company will compensate them for the damage. They must be forced to protect citizens' lives and the general security of the community on whose business they earn. The profit it achieves also obliges them to invest in the security of citizens and local communities from which they benefit. My colleagues and colleagues, money is a dangerous commodity and a means and it is therefore necessary to prescribe quality safety standards. It is the duty and the right of the State to lay down the conditions under which certain activities will be carried out. If, gentlemen, you want to offer these goods in our area these are the conditions you must meet. The state is responsible for the general framework, for the security of citizens and the assets it has in the first place. Non-compliance with the law and non-fulfilment of the established measures may result in the wounding or death of a citizen, an officer, a security guard. If it comes to this by law, it should be defined that all responsibility at that monetary institution has not met the necessary measures, not that the burden and responsibility go to the address of the State and the family of the victim. The DC and HSLS Club strongly opposes the concept of a passive security system that serves only the detection of perpetrators of criminal offences. On the contrary. We need to establish a system that prevents the most serious crimes from happening through the development of security culture, security standards and operational action prevents potential perpetrators and quickly finds and sanctions them after the crime. The proactive security system must provide citizens with private and public monetary institutions and other targets of possible attacks on life and property with proposals, recommendations, advice, opinions and check how they implement their prescribed protection obligations. At the same time, operational action must have a concrete impact on the deterrence of such raids. It's a waste of our intelligence, counterintelligence, and all kinds of police unless they're tied to a security system that monitors and shows in the area of security, unless they find out about the plans and the organization of the attack, unless they intercept and prevent the execution of brutal attacks. The interception of brutal attacks and other types of organised crime would result in a general and special prevention and would be seen by potential perpetrators as a serious obstacle and reprehensible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46700	Thank you. This is what we ended up discussing in clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. You two didn't agree whether the correction was an incorrect quote or not. Then I realized it wasn't. Dear Representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46701	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, look, no one doubts that the state of security in Croatia is getting worse. These armed robberies are getting bolder in their way, the robbers seem to be getting better organized. Now we need to find a way to answer it. And now the question is, how do you answer that? Well, the government thinks that minimum protection measures should be put up, that police officers should be better armed because Minister Kirin announces a long weapon on the streets. What are we going to have here now? We'll have from one side to the teeth of armed cops on the streets and we'll have criminals on the other side that we're wondering if that's why they're going to give up their activities. I personally think they won't because they're criminals. We should start doing honest work. And if they were going to do it, they would have done it by now. They're criminals, and they should count on them to remain criminals. And now that they run into well-armed cops with long weapons, what's left of them now is better off arming themselves against such cops. Nothing else. And now we're going to have a situation that, so guns will be held up by stronger guns, so once the police reintroduce more powerful rifles, then criminals will respond to the tears, so when the police defend themselves with the guns, I guess these guns, which I know what they can do, because they certainly won't give up. And you have to wonder when, normally, we all have to think about security and if this is the right way. Is this the right way? What do armed cops on the road mean to their teeth? Here, the other day in the river. They got drunk, they had guns on them, they got into a fight. What if they had guns? It's lucky none of them pulled the gun they had. Lucky. If they'd had a few more drinks, maybe you'd have pulled more. What if they had guns? And who would stand up to them, then? Well, I know it's not a rule of police conduct and it's an incident, so we all know that and I don't think of blaming the police for that one incident. But the incident can happen and it should be counted on. It could happen. Who's going to get hurt in such a stupid shoot-out of three drunk cops up to their teeth armed with some security guard on board or I don't know who stood up to them and the citizens who found themselves there. To take measures to protect what is proposed by this law. What did you add here? You added savings-credit cooperatives and oltamat clubs. Okay. What's a criminal gonna do now that it's all protected? He'll go to the store. They'll go to the gas stations. They're already going. Then we'll take measures for those parts, for the pumps and for the shops. Some of the provisions are, don't be mad that I'm gonna call them that, but they're just stupid. You've prescribed the lowest level of glass impenetrableness. He says it has to be so he can't get through a 9-caliber missile nine times a 19-millimeter. I don't know what that means, but one who understands weapons gets the perfect direction a stronger weapon must get. I don't know which missile can penetrate that glass now, but they'll definitely know that what they have isn't enough for them, they have to get stronger. Well, that's not in the law. Well, I guess that's prescribed by some sublegal act, so it's not published in the National Journal. So there's no debate in the Parliament. No instructions are given to these criminals to overcome the obstacle that we are now introducing here by law. That shouldn't be the subject of legal text at all. Now, let's not just attack everything now and criticize it, let's think about it for a little bit, would that give it a little bit smarter, in some other direction next. Look, we had a very successful police project in the community, very successful. He's given great results. It's one project that should have continued, its development continued, but also intensified. This collaboration of citizens with a police officer first creates trust in the police. Secondly, it involves all the citizens from that area in the protection system because they will now not hesitate whether to call 92, then the one in there starts to bother him. Let's introduce yourself to which number you're calling. He addresses with the trust of a cop he knows, who's in his neighborhood. That's where the money needs to be spent. Secondly, to encourage a cash-free payment, for example Internet banking, because it will reduce that flow, that manipulation of cash. Yes, but that is why it is necessary to develop the availability of the Internet in society. So let's let the government encourage this company. Have him invest in that money, make sure more people have access to the Internet. You'll only learn to work with it, it doesn't fall to anyone, it won't occur to anyone else to go to the post office or the bank to pay the bills. Either raise the salary in the post office or the bank. He'll be on his salary, he'll be on that machine as long as he needs a kuna for that day, that afternoon, the next day he'll be back. It can discourage those who know there's no God knows how much money, and that armed robbery doesn't pay them off. Penal Policy. So what's our penalty policy? So today we're reading in the papers, so in Novi Sad, this organized group of car robbers, car robbers, has been discovered. One of them, the court in Croatia released him because he said he had throat cancer. People of God, all sorts of things, but really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, A criminal comes and says to the judge, listen, I'm sick, he lets go. Low sentences that are pronounced for the most severe forms of these robberies, so they're just incentivizing the robbers. Encouragement. Look, these people will continue to deal with crime, it's so clear, but if he's out in three years, he'll continue his job, and if he's 12 years inside, and then we're at least 12 years calm that he won't deal with it. Well, then, better work of BUSKOK and intelligence communities. And these people didn't come out, you know, and they're not individual robbers, so it's obvious that it's some sort of organized group. So intelligence has to be revealed by these organized groups, so the BODGE has to act against them. He's right, we passed the law, we authorized him to cooperate with the intelligence community, he has the right to request information from them. To fight this organised crime in a way that he can learn in advance, about the formation of a group. It can be roads that won't be such a simple answer, as the government thinks it'll work out, let's better arm ourselves with the police now, let's get the glass there and it'll solve it now, there won't be any more armed robberies. This law certainly won't diminish it for you. I'm sure of it. So let's just keep talking about it a little bit more. Let's let this law go in the first reading, let's not bring it to a shortcut right now in an emergency procedure, let's discuss it one more time, fix that text, throw out at least these stupid provisions on the thickness of the glass, and put it in sublegal acts, fix that text, all together, I'm telling you well-intentioned. And in the second reading, let's bring a little more quality proposal, so I guess we'll all vote together because everyone cares about this security in this country to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46702	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46703	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia you see someone robbing you with a feather, and lately more and more guns and machine guns. And really maybe this is the moment to imagine whether the state and society capitulated in front of the heavy, I'd say in front of the most serious crimes? It is doubtless that in the last two years, crime has increased and what is particularly worrying is... The most difficult and most deadly acts such as murder and robbery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There have been five armed robberies in Finne's offices. The robbers, robbing robberies, have become more and more reckless. So there was a murder of two security guards. There's one interesting fact that in July of this year, only 8 o'clock happened as much as 7 muggings. And as a rule, the perpetrators remain unknown. We've had a chance to hear here and otherwise the minister is saying, we're going to be brutal, we're going to be yelling skin, I don't know where it says in law that police are brutal, that they're yelling skin, that they're not even doing it in live-houses anymore, but that's not something that criminals are afraid of at all, that's not what a normal man is at all afraid of, but really in the present situation it sounds tragic. How, then, society and state can fight against those who pose a constant danger to the safety and lives of people. What is more important than the strictest and best law is the willingness and successful and rapid detection and capture and trial of the perpetrators. Therefore, no one expects the police to properly diagnose whether anyone is a suspect, a defendant and a finer, better look at the Police Act itself. The role of the police is only to capture the suspect, the one for whom there is evidence and bring him to court, to bring him to justice. And nothing else, nothing more and nothing less. And we see that the police show no results. The government that shows the European face, here essentially shows not only the team, I would say in really foolish words to the minister that he will tear the skin, shows essentially an authoritative miracle where he shows his own insecurity, incompetence, mistrust in his own strength, probably because we all know ourselves best. The police under his leadership have not brought in any more significant perpetrators that have happened lately. Neither have they been identified. The introduction of machine guns, automatic rifles, would be concluded that simply the guns weren't enough, that the criminal escaped, but you, you don't seem to need a robbery because no one was in range at all, nor did you notice anyone. Here on Monday, therefore, a few days ago in Mark's square, because you've very effectively driven out potential great dangers, protesters, peaceful, desperate people who came here to say something and here the bandits are doing their job peacefully and where the police are sitting for 24 hours. The unsub who killed her has not been discovered... You don't know who robbed the banks, who stole the cars, who planted the bombs, who killed the old people, out there in these parts that you like to brag about far away, this programme of care, or the return of refugees is in action. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's responsible for the mob deals? There's no answer. The automafia works peacefully, 26 BMW SUVs were alienated, or stolen, even one from a parking lot near the permanent police station. Both the minister and the government believe that there is a need to calm the public down, and then send in the procedure this bill. What are the obligations of the police under this law? Nothing. This law says: you in the banks there, you have your own business to ensure. Are you going to say that tomorrow with the amendments to the Police Act? You guys buy a vest, you got to buy that, too. I'll still come and control you. Do you have everything? And the minister will yell around, "We'll skin you, I'll be brutal." And what we're surprised about when this issue comes to mind is that I'm the prime minister talking about the bloody facts about, in truth and unfortunately I tell the bloody facts he laughs at. He's funny about that problem. Mr. Secretary of State says, and then the minister himself warned that it was not provided for in the law and that the law must be followed. They say: "Yes, everything provided by law. We will stick to it." So is it normal for every citizen, should this be so pompously announced after the police have used all the legal means? Well, she's bound to do it. Those who do not apply should be sanctioned. Well, you can see that's not applicable. You see, since the time he's been extorting the SCOCK, she's been tormenting her power. I don't know what it looks like right now to fill in the jump because the police don't give up their police officer on the jump. He won't. He cancels his obedience to the judicial authority. And it wants to be effective in a way that banks have glass of so much, the thickness of so many and so many millimeters. And that's what really worries. And on the other hand, you see that police on the one hand announce brutality in general, and on the other hand, police officers who are consciously doing their job here is a short time ago that the murder of another police officer who was killed by a personal car and it is currentizing on the other hand the real and legal protection of those who need to take care of our safety. So on the one hand, no cops are protected or citizens are protected. Only the mafia of every species and these bandits are protected. So the question is, what do you do? You were supposed to see what you weren't supposed to do first? It was certainly not necessary to do what was in place and it was once again politicizing the police, firing good, quality personnel who had been standing in the 1990s, who had shown themselves professionals, but who had one single sin and such was enough to be loyal, what they did as professionals staying at the height of their professional and human task under coalition authority. It's something that this government has not, has not forgiven, replaced, and has not yet brought certain personnel to these alternate places unwarranted and then we have this situation that we have. The situation is therefore such that we can say that the government is precisely verbally saying that there is essentially no serious will nor serious force to catch up with this problem. After all, here on the agenda are the amendments to the Penal Code. The Director of Police please he's talking he needs, so... Bombing words go to deceive or satisfy the public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You will not do so, but by your effectiveness, and not by your lack of words, you will make up for it with these bomb words. So we had to hear that there would be a death penalty. Well, we know a long time ago that our constitution doesn't predict that we don't have that in our criminal law, thank God. And then it's about a life sentence in prison, and what's supposed to be during the coalition government that we're still suggesting you do it in the Penal Code, or you don't provide adequate protection to those who, the brave who are willing to expose their lives to protect the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46704	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it's kind of hard for me to tell which of the two allegations is more incorrect? Or maybe one of those incorrect, other accurate? Let's say the first one, the role of the police in this law, no one, right? Just to catch a criminal. Well, we know for a fact that there's prevention. Well, there's a colleague yesterday who said she didn't mind this, against that and so on. Arms and stuff. Then keep talking. What are the obligations of the police under this law? None again. And we all forget that it's really about banks that need to be forced to actually protect because criminals are more sophisticated today than before. The Ljubljanska banka did it when she robbed our people very easily. But what seems to me is that the banking lobby in the House for donation will certainly not be left behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46706	The esteemed, correcting of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative of Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46707	Mr. Vice-President is an incorrect allegation presented by counterpart Anticevic about the alleged dismissal of police officers who were loyal to the coalition government. If that were true, then you would be presenting the exact information as we can give the exact information of how many officers were fired when the coalition government came to the head of this country and when the cops were strike as much as they strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46708	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46709	Here comes Mrs. Anticevic leaving the assembly...... But there are MPs here who will probably listen, so maybe hear what I'm saying. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Anticevic said that police politicization, dismissal, shifts is back on track. As far as I can remember, the former government fired two and a half thousand police officers. Not this one. The former government fired two and a half thousand police officers. No one has been fired during the leadership of this MUP. There was no mass layoff. Someone may have received a strict measure in the disciplinary procedure, but the layoffs were not but there were sanctions under existing regulations. She just mentioned one example and a case where she said a police officer was recently killed. It's that traffic cop who got hurt in traffic regulation in the Sesvedi, and I hope she also noticed, remembered and saw what the reaction of certain media and the public to the police was to the perpetrator of that murder against a police officer. Every store, measure, and procedure was watched, analyzed and evaluated by the police who arrested the perpetrators of this crime of police murder. For several days, it was debated whether it was an excess of authority, whether the police acted too harshly and almost in turn it turned out that the man had killed a police officer in his service. Unfortunately, too, when police act, when they apply certain repressive measures, certain circles for the protection of human rights are immediately raised, did the police act legally? I don't want to bring into that context at all what happened in the river. It doesn't matter. But these cases of police interventions where police officers expose their lives to law enforcement and protection, the security of citizens and their property, and where, unfortunately, they suffer, such reactions occur to question the conduct of the police at all. There was also a crackdown on Parliament's Stazic, who said roughly that police brutality should not be reacted to by long weapons, repressive measures because the criminals caused by our repressive measures would exist even more repressively. So we should cross hands, rest and wait for them to become less, less naughty, less cruel, less boastful of themselves. I don't think it's a good approach that a simple state has to react and protect those social values and individuals that are normally protected in every country. I have already said that in a narrow circle, should the police respond to the actions of such criminals by reciting love songs or by reading the declaration of human rights and asking them to stop breaking the law, to stop jeopardising the security of people's property to stop doing murder or we should apply all the legal measures that are at our disposal. This MUP and this government will act this other way. We will uncompromisingly apply all the legal measures at our disposal, and we will not talk to criminals and negotiate with them. Mrs. Anticevic also said that this police are practically doing nothing, but these days, police, or the MUP Republic, in collaboration with the MUP, have discovered a single car gang, an automafy where a lot of perpetrators and a lot of stolen cars will be found. This did not happen by accident, but it happened through the insistent work of the Croatian MUP in co-operation with the Republic of Serbia's MUP. There's talk of a cop's solution in the community, that's a solution, that's a better solution for a cop in the community than a repression. However, Mr. Stazic is not here, but Mr. Lucin said the same thing about it, so I'll just tell you a few details. You know well that this project was the contact of a police officer, a police officer in the community first in Zagreb, and in Zagreb we have the largest increase in the robberies and other crimes. I do not want to bring this directly into connection because it is clear that there has been this huge increase in Zagreb because the highest concentration of monetary institutions is in Zagreb. Because in Zagreb we have the highest daily migrations, because in Zagreb we have a lot of what is simply a challenge for criminals. But it's hard to pull the correlation in the success of that police project in the community and the fall in crime. Where a police officer in the community acts, he has significantly less authority, he has other tasks than the fight against this most serious crime. The task of contacting a police officer is to keep in touch with the citizens, to build good relations with the local community, and that's absolutely fine, and we support it. However, police officers cannot stand up to contact but well-equipped intervention officers, special officers and basic officers. It's hard to fight this monster because you saw that when criminals rob FINA, they disappear in traffic, in constricted Zagreb traffic, and very difficult, or impossible to track. The key is to make the police more equipped, to get an easy helicopter, which is our plan, so we can track them out of the air, where there are no roadblocks that we have in the car tracking. And here I support the absolute discussion of some MPs that the police, in order to be more efficient, must be more equipped. That's why we asked for a bigger budget, which is why we're going to insist on better equipment. And this controversy about the number of cops, whether there are too many or too few cops, I think it's speculated without knowing the legal facts because there's no prescribed number of police officers at 100,000 people in Europe. This practice is different from country to country, so we have 450 cops in Italy to some 100 and some cops. And look at that average in Italy, Spain, Greece and some other countries, it's well above 350 police officers. There's no prescription that's universal for all states. Each state struggles with different institutions and different numbers of police officers against crime and all other deformities that threaten social values. So I don't think it's a good idea to deal with that information about whether we have 450 or 350, whether or not the border police are entering it, we know exactly that information, and it's important that the police are effective, that it be well equipped, and the number will certainly be what it should be, which should meet the needs of the Croatian state. Normally, respecting the standards and the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46710	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46711	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect assumption that the current government, unlike the former, is not politicizing the police. Here's an argument, how to interpret that one of the candidates for the new head of police is directly addressing the prime minister with a demand that he wants full freedom in the conduct of the post. Why is he talking to him if the law requires what is the role, the job, and what is it to him, so to the headmaster of the police? That's actually the strongest argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46712	Honorable representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46713	Mr Buconjic stressed that the public's attention had been paid to how the police had acted on the perpetrator of the crime, that the second plan went that he had been killed, that a police officer had been killed. I would like to say that this is not true and that the public is very sensitive when a police officer is brought into such a situation, especially when he dies, that the public reacts very solidly and puts themselves aside from the police. On the other hand, police should not seek their own defense in the matter of the possible reactions of the Association for Human Rights, etc. to the police reaction. They, these associations normally do their job, and the public is with the police... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46714	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46715	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from Mr. Buconjic, who responded to me. First, Mr. Buconjic, regarding the number of police officers in Croatia. I said, the recommendation of the European Union is that the quota of 350 police officers to 100,000 inhabitants is desirable, I did not say it was prescribed. We've got her for about 450, but she's inconsistencies. There is asymmetry in the number of police officers in rural areas, in some there are too many, and in urban areas such as Zagreb is too little. That's what I said. Furthermore, I said about the concept of police work in the community, that it was introduced in Croatia quickly, unplanned and partially introduced. We lost a stage activity that used to be the main factor of security. It's a critical point of public security... are citizens, although official reports try to show things in a better light. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46716	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46717	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, at least a lot has been said in the debate so far, I'm going to look back at this bill in a few sentences. It is inevitable, however, that these changes occurred as a result of increasingly frequent and increasingly brutal raids in Croatia and that in such a way it wants to actually reduce the risk of such parts in at least one part. The secretary of state himself said it was one of the stones in the mosaic of all the measures that should be taken. In fact, we are also on behalf of the club, colleague Lucin said that we are not sure that in this kind of change the law will receive such measures, i.e. such consequences, and that it would be good for this law to still go to another reading. In view of the statistics that we have in the light of the law, it can be seen that they are the most common by number and by the financial amount of robbery that happens on the street and in the shops. There, it has already been said that in the summer, only 8 o'clock in Zagreb, the robbers, with a gun and a hand grenade, robbed 7 small shops and bookshops. This law does not solve the problem of robbery where it happens most often, according to this statistics and where it is actually the most financially, if it can be said to profit. There, I'll say on a few examples from, what happened to me near, in my county. A pregnant woman was killed in Prelog a few years ago in one of the exchange offices. The perpetrator is the truth God, caught after a little over a year, punished, and we can expect to be pardoned very quickly according to what our judiciary is like. A little over a year ago, a police officer was killed just because he was doing his duty but didn't have adequate equipment. And I think it's necessary not in this way by law to try to solve this problem. It is necessary to provide more equipment for the police. The more the bandits are equipped, the more sophisticated weapons they have, the more sophisticated the methods the police unfortunately are now lagging behind in all this. Therefore, it needs to be better equipped and subjected, and police officers must be subject to constant education and education because this is also the way to end this kind of work. There, and the third case that happened just a few days ago in Chakovec. In the morning, so in the morning hours in the city center in the pedestrian zone, a man walks into your savings room, robs her, comes out. He could've only been 50 yards away at the coffee shop and nobody would've known who it was. You haven't been able to meet a cop in a town called Chakovec in years. And that's why I think we should develop this police project in the community, that cops move at least in those parts of town that are the most exposed to it. You may disagree with that, but the fact is that when cops are close to having certain security. They'll talk to him. Maybe if he'd been ten meters away, maybe that wouldn't have happened, maybe with the help of the citizens and I.D.'d him. And just here are the two remarks that have already been made, I won't extend, to the proposed law. My colleagues already said that. Article 7 where the minimum measures to be met are extended, the monetary institution shall state precisely by law what these are minimum measures. You said that the perpetrators of such crimes are getting more and more equipped and we here, as on the plate, tell them that they need to be further equipped to rob a particular monetary institution. We also direct them to read "The People's Journal" because there we will publish all norms, Croatian norms, international norms, specialized standards that are accepted by the profession. I say we publish it in the People's Newspaper so you can read it there so you know when you come to the robbery that will meet you there. And in Article 10, where it is said that temporary work of a monetary institution that does not remove identified irregularities will be prohibited, as ordered by the ministry or by the competent police administration. What does that mean for such a monetary institution? One savings bank, a housing savings facility, another savings bank, one smaller bank can shut their doors and their counters permanently because the commissioners who won't work for at least one day, not five days, but something more, maybe two months really don't have anything to look for in a savings facility like that anymore, and she can put a key in the lock. So, it would be good if after these discussions we've had here, after these conversations you're saying you'll have with certain professional institutions to accept this in the first reading, let the law go into the second reading, then we would eventually, as counterpart Lucin and we would vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46718	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, they would now break up, have a break by 3:00 a.m. when the vote on the debated items of the agenda. And the continuation of this debate Tuesday at 9.30 p.m. The first in line is Honorable Representative Miroslav Rozic at 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday. Now break to 15 o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue to work. It is on the agenda to discuss the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and value. The word has a respected representative, Miroslav Rožić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46720	Thank you very much, Mr. President, good morning, to you and all the MPs who are not in great numbers. But I will try not to repeat what is said on Friday about this section of the Law. However, allow a few things I did not wish to replicate to my colleagues, to present in my personal discussion. Of course I will not join my colleagues mainly from the SDP who commented on Minister Kirin's statements because I believe that his statements about skin derivation and similarity are indeed below the level of good taste and dignity, at least Croatian. But a few notes that actually have nothing to do with the bill itself that came up in the debate. First of all, I would tell Mr. Secretary of State Buconjic that as the number of police officers anywhere and never has to and most often does not collude with the success of protecting citizens, which is finally on the line and he himself said here saying that different numbers of police are coming in different countries according to the number of residents. There are certainly many examples of this, that the number of police officers did not collude with the success of protecting citizens, numerous examples from both the past and the present and almost certainly from the future. In fact, so much for the observation that in the past period, around 2,000 police officers have been fired during the past 2000 years, by bringing it into a certain relationship with the level of security. I think that the reasons why it's growing and it's dramatically increasing the number of armed bandits are actually completely different natures. I also spoke of these reasons in a completely different context than this Law. The fact is that in the very introduction, i.e. in the assessment of the situation at the time of the Bill and the Government itself, the Ministry says that indicators of the crime scene committed indicate that the most crimes were actually committed on the street and in 30% of the cases. And I'm sure that the protection level provision that applies to glass impenetrableness has to be the lowest to protect against a 9 times 19 millimeter projectile fired... does not apply to these 30% rises in the street and will not bring absolutely any more protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it was also highlighted by fellow Stazic that such protection would actually contribute much more to the development of the police project in the community, which he called a successful project, unfortunately I must conclude that this project is all but a failure. And for the simple reason, I'm saying that I've already talked about in some completely different context, which is the fact that a cop in the community that his salary is about 3000 kuna and I don't think anyone's going to risk it, or rare people will actually risk their lives by protecting against the robbery on the street for 3,000 kuna without a vest that's impenetrable for 9 times 19 millimeters... But in any case, the "cop in the community" project had some good ideas, but the way we actually treat the police, and that's my deep conviction, the way we treat cops, according to their equipment, equipment, protecting their lives, so if you want to to some extent their powers, we certainly don't contribute to the level of protection of citizens, it's complete security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The police are indeed fully and unequipped and unprepared, especially those who should be involved in this project a police officer in the community and not prepared and not equipped and not stimulated enough to actually do this job in a satisfactory manner. Also, what I would like to point out, despite the fact that the number of police officers is certainly not directly related to the success of the protection of citizens, police equipment is something else entirely. It is certainly in direct correlation with the success of protecting citizens, but in the situation in which I say we believe that police officers are one of the most underrated professions in Croatia today as regards their income, their salaries and their level of security for doing jobs that should be successfully done. On the one hand, and on the other hand with such equipment, with such stimulation, with such a police organisation and with this level of their personal protection, no one can count on it seriously in this country not only to prevent and reduce the number of bandits but to even enter any more serious crime battle, especially organised crime that is becoming a growing problem in this country. For the simple reason that the levels of organised crime are at such a level that simply the police cannot oppose such a profitable business in particular if the state refers, that is, to society in the way it applies. Now a few words about the bill itself. Article 1 states that the provisions of this Act do not apply to the premises of monetary institutions which are part of protected facilities, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and other bodies of the state administration, which are protected by military police or judicial police forces and technical systems of entry and exit control. And I ask a very specific question is this, as I read Article 1 does this not apply to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and to the bank located within the Parliament? Or maybe yes, but I'm not reading it, so I'd like you to give me an answer. Because the Parliament isn't in any case the body of the state administration. Furthermore, Article 7 which is so mentioned, indeed, Mr. Secretary of State, contains in some of its provisions, in fact, instructions for criminals to be equipped and what level of equipment they must have in order to continue their business is being pillaging. And this is the story already mentioned at the glass impenetrable level, chosen independently by a legal person with the lowest level that he spoke of, but then immediately after the 5th, the list of Croatian norms, international norms, specialized norms and accepted profession rules set out in paragraph 4 is said in the preceding paragraph, which mentions this fire missile force. It says on the proposal of the Croatian allegations of norms will be determined by the Minister of the Interior, so I really don't understand why if there is such an explanation in paragraph 5 at all there is an item 4. Also in paragraph 6, the census says, the list of Croatian norms will be published in the National Journal. I believe that it is really unnecessary to publish that list of norms especially of those international norms in the National Journal. In addition, monetary institutions are obliged to adopt a general act laying down the application of minimum safety conditions for protection referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, but shall not specify the time limit for them to adopt those acts. So I don't quite understand how you're actually going to control the application. Finally, paragraph 8 states: "The implementation of technical protection in the facilities of monetary institutions must comply with the provisions of the rules on the conditions and manner of implementation of technical protection", so in one word in paragraph 8. it is in fact united all of this in the preceding 4 paragraphs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46721	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46722	And look indeed, Mr. Secretary of State, that this article, however, is arranged in a certain way to be applied to the law, not to the regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46723	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46724	Well, mostly I would agree with most of what my colleague Rosic said, but it is simply not true that the project "Policeman in the Community" is not good. He started it, and it's good that this project develops. Not only from personal experience, but there were almost no people in our local committees, and it is likely that in other cities they did not talk with enthusiasm about this project "Policemen in the Community". They were just thrilled with the approach of those people who first approached citizens, all those shops that are in the area, and the role of a police officer in the community is quite preventive, not that he's armed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46725	Replica response, Honored Representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46726	Thank you very much. I didn't say the project "Policeman in the Community" was a failure. I even said that it was very well imagined, but that the project "Policeman in the Community" cannot be revived with the level of security that a police officer has in the community and that he can never liven up in ways that are imagined while his salary is 3 thousand kuna per month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46727	And another replica of the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46728	Thank you very much. And I agree with my colleague, Rosic, with a lot of what he said and the fact is that the material position of the police officers will be like this while the ratio of funds in the Budget is 85% for wages and 15% for material expenses. This Parliament needs to make a decision actually to get the police more, more money. There's an alarming situation outside when 60% is for wages and 40% for equipment. As for the police in the community, however, it is not possible to assess a project that has not been completed. It was predicted that police officers in the community had higher wages. There's something called prevention, and the police in that area have to play their part. In fact, the police in the community were imagined to dock, to replace and compensate for what used to be called a police service. After all, it's the only project at the Ministry of Interior that the British and the Germans have agreed to be sponsors. Unfortunately, the last step when councils were to be formed in cities and municipalities is not over. And I have to say that all the people of the police contact went through full training, that they were educated and that the first skeptic of the police officers themselves for this project that was in the run for second time and third was very large. So he's shown, he's shown interest. And that's where the most skilled officers used to go. So that's the part we have to take care of, which is prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46729	Thank you. We're going to a single club five-minute debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46730	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Finally, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I can say that the issue of general security of citizens is not a party issue and that is why we have dealt with ourselves in this debate. For all of us here, this should be the most important issue because we ourselves know that the general security of citizens from day to day is getting worse. And that's why we said we needed to take a set of measures. First, measures that can be taken immediately by a short-term nature, and the second is a set of measures of long-term nature. As regards short-term measures of general nature, there are expedient measures. It is necessary to objectively record the existing situation and identify and implement the short-term action measures to prevent further deterioration of the safety situation. Police must free themselves of all non-police tasks, form according to the real needs of society and act in the same sense in the area where citizens live. So first, the active police must go into prevention. Then political moments should be systematically eliminated in the appointment of operational police officers if, with any change of political authority, the leading structure of the criminal police is inconceivable in the detection and repression of organised and other serious crime. There is also a set of long-term measures and this should be approached immediately. So the formation and operation of the Croatian police should be approached systematically by an analysis of the situation and existing problems. First of all, a political platform for public security should be designed from the beginning of the Constitution and the legal arrangement. Reforms in some areas will necessarily require reform of the political structure. It must be planned and systematic. So it's also likely to call the judicial criminal police and tie her to the authorities of criminal proceedings at... the arrangements of the area and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a long-term effort. It is also necessary to give the police an important different attention. That's not a union question. Therefore, the police must be equipped and paid. And I can finally say that we at the HSP Club can't agree that we're protecting some banking lobbys that were said here, Mr. Markovanovic and others. If someone's protecting her bank lobby, it's the least of us here. Because we didn't even participate in the conversion and privatisation of Croatian banks. All other parties participated in this except us from the Croatian Party of Rights. For us, the most important situation is the general security of Croatian citizens. And if we don't move on from this, what we're doing here today will unfortunately not produce any effects that we want to achieve. The only thing that matters is that it's going to produce an effect from somewhere up to a billion kuna on how much it's going to cost to get all the equipment. And it's not exactly that variant that's not going to have an impact on the state budget. They will. You have the case of the Croatian Post Office. You have a case of Croatian Post Offices that will have to allocate huge funds to obtain all the equipment that was placed in Article 4. Therefore, I think it would be wiser if it had given up the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure and therefore, unfortunately, they are not even true about the assessment of the Prime Minister who said here on the first day of the beginning of this Parliament that he who is not for this Law is in favour of continuing the robbery. No, the other way around. We need to arrange a system that's going to act preventively, not this way we have now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46731	Thank you. The HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46732	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I stress my satisfaction that the number of crimes in Istria in the first 6 months of 2005 compared to the first 6 months of 2004 is a significant 61.4% drop. I'd like to keep that trend in these current six months, and so on. Based on the statistics shown, I would also like to hear the opinion of the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior or to have reports of the Istrian and Karlovac Police Administration and to learn from the original knowledge of what appears in this area in the system of the prevention of criminal offences. As far as the proposal is concerned, as far as I'm concerned, in Croatia, we believe that the bill should have been addressed to normal procedures. We consider this because this bill is important, but not crucial for the sense of security of Croatian citizens because it does not affect at all the reduction of the crime of street robbery, in trade, gas stations, kiosks, houses, apartments and other places, and there are the number of robberies affecting the feeling of citizens' safety. Of course, the concentration of money in banks, post offices, exchange bookshops and bookshops increases the risk of robbery, but that is not the only reason for the existence and increase of risk of robbery in society. Insufficient technical equipment by the Ministry of the Interior, ineffectiveness in detecting the perpetrator, slowness of the judiciary and relatively mild penalties also contribute to increased risk. Based on my knowledge of the labour protection profession, I responsibly argue that the bill seeks to resupervise a lack of rules that determine organisational conditions so that the work of employees and overall activities themselves can take place with a minimum level of risk. In the protection of labour, it is an obligation for the employer to make an assessment of the level of risk of workplace hazards, either alone or in cooperation with professional institutions and insurance to the work protection inspector. So I'm also wondering why in this case we're building bunkers everywhere and approaching matter as if there's a daily money trade of 50 million kuna in each exposure. This is simply not true and this matter also requires a selective approach depending on the estimated degree of risk, and I see in that assessment the key contribution of the Ministry of the Interior. In order to be able to judge the achievement of this bill, I need to know that it is done by others, i.e. to display effective models of fighting crime in countries that achieve greater effects in the repression and detection, and to punish crimes of robbery. Since the promoter has not rewarded us with these insights, I will convey to him the knowledge of my profession. The priority is protection, and so are the priorities of protection in the business of cash, by organising work, architectural solutions, by selecting locations, by appropriate technological approach to risk awareness to the least extent. There are examples like this especially in old buildings used by FINA. And I'll cut it short, I gave the amendments in front of HSU to fix this bill. We don't want to read in the paper tomorrow that the robbery was committed by criminals who presented themselves as police officers. We also have a problem with the possibility that the threat assessment is made by craftsmen to carry out private protection activities. With all due respect, they have their own personal interest in the first place, which in our opinion is not enough for a comprehensive view of this issue. It's final. The Croatian pensioner's party does not dispute the proposing that it thus shows concern for the safety of Croatian citizens and the security of the business of monetary institutions. Although we find it insufficient for the overall fight against the crimes of muggings. The representatives of the Croatian pensioners' party will vote on the dependence on accepting the improvement of this proposal on their own conscience, but will ultimately not be against the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46733	Thank you. IDS club. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46734	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. So here's the one who followed, excuse me, these latest recommendations in Britain about what Blair's request to extend custody from 15 to 90 days without a court request sees that the English Parliament did not want to leave the fundamental principle of its procedural legislation, all with the aim of strengthening police authority or not knowing the position of government itself. The French also did not come out of the Republic’s framework, regardless of how bad they were under quotes from inside, so in a few weeks several thousand cars were set on fire. Both the powers of the Croatian police must remain within the ordinary by my deep conviction. I also agree with all those who say that these powers are not small. They're obviously an appropriate moment. However, it is inappropriate for the Croatian police to fail to detect the largest number of perpetrators of Croatia's most severe robberies. That's a problem for me, not an expansion of, say, police powers that are big anyway. The problem is clear prevention that these robberies are not happening, not radical withdrawals, as some suggest penalties, because they are being prevented by almost maximum deadlines if the perpetrators are discovered. The problem is the security of these monetary institutions, not turning the police into one institution almost without allegations of control. Of course the police must have the authority. It's clear that the police should respect it. It's also clear that crime must be hit. Clearly, monetary institutions must adapt to this number of muggings. Of course they have to invest in their own protection. Finally, just last year, if I'm not mistaken, they made about four billion kunas of money, so let them invest in protection. But they're mostly targeted by small, rural exposures, exchange offices, mail, which can hardly be protected by these measures. And I agree here with that court that this and that law would put a lot of pressure on the state budget. Finally, banks may be worth more to shut down these small exposures in villages than to blind them in such a way. On the other side, you can see how to commit robbery, gun, knife, spray, etc. So with relatively small means, it's certainly possible to raise that protection, but I think it's still about the efficiency of the police. Finally, in 2004, there were 770 reported crimes, and 353 were solved. So 353 muggings are resolved. In 2005, 734 such offences were reported and 401 were resolved. That's the problem. So, 735 2005, and only 401 or 770 reported in 2004 were solved by 353 muggings. So we need effective police, measures to tell, stories of one billion kuna, etc. Apparently they don't stand. But the appeal must be on the institutions. It is also visible that in some ways it is logical that the richer Croatian counties are more hit by the robbery. In 2004, in Zagreb, Istria, Split-Dalmatia and Primorje-Gorski County, where 2 million people live, there was 90% of the robbery that corresponds to the economic path of these areas. But it means that the richer ones are also more involved in the crime. And finally, let's clearly stimulate the police and the wages, and the citizens understandably expect and have to hope that they will be hit on crime, that the police will be as effective as possible, that the police will not stand on their own hands, that they have as such, so I'm talking about the citizens to feel safe and that the community must also guarantee the safety of their property.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46735	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46736	Mr. Cain's inaccuracy was that there were 734 crimes in this area already 931. That means the resolution didn't grow 13%, it almost fell by 1/3.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46737	Dear Representative Frano Piploić, Club of HSLS Representatives, DC, LS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46738	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So we at the DC Club, HSLS and LS express our dissatisfaction that the government has reacted in this way, because first of all, the government and the responsible government should be protecting its citizens, its assets. Our current system of security with regard to the protection of or traffic in business means cash and securities, or values, showed a lack of vulnerabilities. So the one who's got the intention and the desire to get the money in one bandit way did it as you can see, especially lately, almost every day we've had some raids, some smaller cooperatives, or some currency exchanges, etc. This suggests that the bandits did not go ahead with the existing measures, which were prescribed and that measures should be tightened and raise a higher level, a higher level of responsibility, both in the country itself and all those involved in these monetary affairs. Because I said for the last time in my debate that money is one dangerous commodity that simply causes many, especially those who want to come easily to money. So, first of all, protection of property means that citizens themselves do not happen to us that in one mafia way, they are not killed when they come into the offices of the appropriate monetary services to raise their savings, with a tormented savings. We at the club advocate one proactive system, meaning that it is not only enough to have these prescribed measures, but also need to include the whole system in this so that it can be done preventively before such unsuspecting acts and scenes occur. We're still proposing, or that's where I've already given one amendment. We suggest that there be a change in the name itself, that this sentence be thrown out, this part of the sentence is a minimum measure and that the law is called the Law on Protection in Business Money and Values. Because these minimum measures indicate that only the minimum measures have actually been taken. I think the state needs to take the necessary maximum measures to avoid such acts. I already referred to this name, the one who was going to commit crimes like this to commit these crimes. So the state needs to be responsibly approachable, vigorously approached because the protection of its citizens and property should be their first priority. In any case, we will uphold this law and give our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46739	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46740	It is an incorrect quote from counterpart Piplovic that the state must prescribe maximum measures. The State always prescribes minimum measures in each respect by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46741	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46742	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored ladies, gentlemen of the Parliament. I think the debate on Friday and today has shown that there is a unique view, a consensus that the state of security and monetary institutions and citizens need to be corrected. We may differ over what methods to achieve it, but it is very important to point out that everyone has also expressed concern about these acts of robbery, because of the brutality of the perpetrators of criminal offences, but I think it is very good, that we are all aware that we need to do something. All competent and responsible state institutions to repair the situation, to demotify the perpetrators, to make security and monetary institutions and citizens greater. I'd just like to do a few things again. The number of crimes is in decline. However, there has obviously been a change in the structure of these crimes. There is a decline in the number of crimes on the streets, in public places, however, the number of crimes is increasing, breaking down on banks, on FINA, on some other monetary institutions, and we have tried to react to this law precisely by introducing additional measures for these monetary institutions. It is normal that we must also take care and care of all other crime scenes and that preventive action should take place in all places, all forms of criminal offences to which the police must respond in order for the safety of citizens and institutions to be greater. We're aware of that, and I'm saying, this is one of the measures. The proposal to amend this law is one of a series of measures that we will propose and take to bring all forms of crime to an end, i.e. to reduce these crimes. I said in the beginning that this is not the only measure but is one of a series of measures that we have to implement because reducing the number of crimes is a very difficult and responsible job and task. And what might have been equally visible, which I would just like to say, is that we are aware that by not only changing the law, we can lead to a reduction in the number of crimes, but that other measures should be implemented. And there is certain that what some MPs have said is that there is a need to increase the equipment, that is, to improve the equipment of the police, and that is where the leadership of the MUP has already taken certain steps. So we signed a contract to get a system of digitalized connections, so-called. Hey, hey, hey, We got the state-of-the-art system, so... We'll get the number of vests we need, we'll bring in standardized weapons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There will also be a certain increase in wages. We will do our best to improve the way in which the service and the position of the employees are performed through and through the change of systemization. So, we are aware that this change of law alone will not be able to drastically correct the situation, but the changes in this law and the measures envisaged by it should only be one in a series, a mosaic measure that the Ministry of Interior will take to reduce the rate of crime in order for the security of both citizens and all institutions to be greater. I think that, once again, the unanimous wish of all MPs who participated in the debate to contribute to their discussions in proposing measures that can be effective. We will discuss all of them in the ministry and show them when the laws are passed through the amendments that have been submitted. We saw them all as, first of all, well-intentioned, we saw them all as welcome. And I'm saying, we're going to make a statement about them when they're passed through the amendments that have been delivered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46743	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46744	Mr. Secretary of State said that this law is one in a series of those in the cause, which will be passed in order to shit on robbery. It's just not true. We can only take that risk of raiding by all measures at a bearable, reasonable risk limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46745	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this final bill. ... Please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, if you had why me... Then pick it up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46746	It's incorrect that Mr. Secretary of State claimed that the number is being robbed in a decline. In only 8 months of this year, there were 80 of them in the same period of 14 last year, but a strange division now established by the secretary of state that has been reduced, however, has been reduced. It's something, it's some kind of division that doesn't know criminology or crime. It's kind of like dividing a murder into the back of the head, killing the left side of the head, killing the right side.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46747	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and value. First, there is a proposal for the conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club, which reads: On the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash, a debate was held in the first reading. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? In conclusion, 26, 5 abstentions, 61 against. He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46750	68 and 9 is 77. Is that a quorum? Well, given the number, I'd like you to determine.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46751	Don't, Mr. Vice President. 77 is not a quorum. I am voting on whether or not we will debate and vote on the amendments of the Government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 73 votes for, four abstentions and one against, we will vote and discuss these amendments. I ask Secretary of State Ivica Buconjic to explain Amendment 1. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46752	Just an explanation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46753	They all do. Just say it briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46754	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So, not on the basis of judgment but on the basis of this law, they are obliged to implement it and therefore the implementation of the judgment is not necessary in all cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46755	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendment of one government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 74 for one abstention. Thank you. To make that clear, you don't have to explain it to me. It's clear to those who can count. Dear Representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46756	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, if it cannot be established or not established...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46757	Don't throw it away! The representative is speaking, so what kind of way is this, Mr. Kovacevic? Don't throw it away? Of course I have the right to be angry because you can't, why are you making it impossible if the MP got it and asked for a word about why you're making it impossible? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46758	I ask that the quorum be determined by counting hands or by other means, perhaps calling if necessary. This Regulation shall enter
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46759	So now we're going to. All right, all right. Great. 79. We have a quorum. So we're going to vote. One government amendment again. Who's in? Great. The vote. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. With 76 for and 3 abstentions, the proposed amendment was adopted. Amendment two.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46760	The second is regarding the amendment to the first, since the obligation to determine...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46761	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 76 for and 3 abstentions of the proposed amendment. Amendment of Representative Frana Piplovic. Let's get on the plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46762	It is not accepted because it would change the meaning and concept of the law, since a number of new measures would then be established, and here it talks about minimum operating measures for cash.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46763	Representative Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46764	My intention was, in fact, to fix this very name of the law, because when it comes to minimum measures it turns out that we didn't do everything we needed to do. Therefore, I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46765	Amendment withdrawn. Other Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46766	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46767	Thank you very much. I'm putting the amendments to vote because they're not here. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Well, why are you doing this? So why aren't you following gentlemen? Third, HSU's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46768	It's unacceptable. Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46769	A colleague of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46770	Mr Secretary of State, since in your amendment, in the second amendment to the Government in paragraph 6 you have partially resolved this issue which we have been targeting with this amendment, I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46771	Amendment withdrawn. Third, fourth, also club representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46772	It is not accepted because this provision is not subject to control in all monetary institutions, but only in the monetary institutions of II. categories with fewer cash and smaller measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46773	I'm a colleague of the Hill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46774	No matter how you explain it, we're staying with our proposal. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46775	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifth, SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46776	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46777	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Sixth, HSP rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46778	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46779	It becomes an integral part of the law. Seventh, HSU's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46780	It is not accepted because the work of an institution is not prohibited immediately but rather if it does not remove the observed shortcomings.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46781	A colleague of the Hill? Retracted. Eighth, HSP rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46782	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u46783	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm putting the law to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 75 votes in favour and one against and two abstentions, the proposed law has been passed along with the amendments adopted. And we still have choices, appointments, resolutions. I'm asking the president to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u53456	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 33rd session held on 9 November 2005, the Board of Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Croatia unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the Vice-President of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament. First. The Vice-President of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament Valter Poropat is hereby dismissed, and the Vice-President of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament is elected Dorotea Pešić Buković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u53457	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please, let's get on with it. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. We can vote. Score. With 90 votes to one abstention, the proposed decision was made. Do you have any other presidents?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u53458	At the 33rd session held on 9 November 2005, the Committee for the selection of appointments and administrative tasks of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connection of the Croatian Parliament. First. A member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament, Dorotea Pešić-Bukovac, is hereby dismissed. And two. A member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament is elected Valter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u53459	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 94 votes, the proposed decision was unanimously made. Selection board, appointments. President Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u53461	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the 35th session held on 22 November 2005, the Board of Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament voted unanimously with 9 votes to determine the Proposal for a Decision appointing 2 members of the University Council of the University of Zagreb. For members of the University Council of the University of Zagreb is named academician Mirko Zelic and Doctor of Science Željko Horvatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-11-0.u53462	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find the proposed decision has been made with 76 votes for, 8 abstentions and 4 against. You'd be done with that now.
