ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33666	Let's move on to the 7th item of the agenda. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on residence tax with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 260. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And when we set up the agenda, we accepted the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. The Minister must, etc. Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33667	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence tax with the Final Proposal for a Law. And we introduce these proposed amendments and additions, or we suggest that you introduce the obligation to pay a residence tax in a flat-rate annual amount for citizens who are registered for the provision of household accommodation services, i.e. private renters. This fee will be paid by the tenants for each bed or every accommodation unit if it is a camp that is otherwise used to provide accommodation services. Services, i.e. will be paid all on behalf of the tourist community of the municipality or city until 31 July of the current year or in three meals, so it can be paid in three meals, so that the last meal should be paid by 30 September at the latest. This annual flat-rate amount is a multiple of the number of beds, i.e. units in a camp with a coefficient of the area in which accommodation and residence tax services are provided, determined by the Government on a proposal from the competent ministry. The height of the coefficient is determined depending on the area, settlements that have access to the sea, or over 100,000 inhabitants have a coefficient of 1. The settlements in areas of special state care or mountain-mounted areas and islands of the first group have a coefficient of 0.50 and all other settlements have a coefficient of 0.75. In addition, it is possible for municipal and city councils to increase the coefficient but maximum double on a proposal from tourist communities if it is filled in a city, municipality and settlement with private accommodation capacity greater than 40 days a year, so only in that case can it be increased, i.e. municipal and city councils can be increased. Why do we propose the adoption of this law and why an emergency procedure? First in the Republic of Croatia, nearly 50,000 private owners were registered with about 340 thousand beds, representing 40% of total capacities. According to the estimates of the tourist community from 10 to 30% of private tenants, depending on the area, do not pay their stay tax and do not report their guests, but as well known for their services, or rent rooms and apartments on black. This problem has been present in Croatia for years in Croatian tourism and it does not settle in a satisfactory way regardless of what inspection services do maximum their work, they still fail to contain this high percentage of black work. Tourist tax should and should be said as a rule is the most important and exclusive source of income from tourist communities. Among other things, because of this work on black, tourist communities often lack enough resources, and many unreported guests make it much more difficult to monitor tourism traffic. In line with the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to combat the black or grey economy, we propose a flat-rate payment of the residence tax, which would be introduced parallel to the payment of the flat-rate taxation of the citizens of the tenants. However, what I want to say is that the model of collecting the flat-rate income tax along with the flat-rate residence tax is indeed stimulating, and motivated and thought with minimal duties. Here's an example I'll give you. In fact, six days will be enough to rent one bed, six days a year, so that all obligations to the state can be met. If we know that it depends clearly on whether it is before season, season, depends on a whole series of other factors, but one bed is rented somewhere around 40 days a year on Monday. If we know that the price is on Monday, again I say depending on the time for a whole series of reasons about 100 kuna, that means that with 6 days renting that one bed absolutely all needs of the state and when it comes to residence tax and when it comes to tax are settled. I think it's true, and it's in the first category in the first category if it's in the areas of special state care or mountainous areas, then it's 50% less, so 300 kuna. So I think it's really a stimulating and motivating model for renters. That those summer traumas will be avoided, when the inspectors arrive as a result of the tourist season, and when the owners are in trouble and when they are in trouble and guests, when they are all in trouble together, this way will be done casually, it will be really better and more useful for everyone. In addition, we will follow these measures to achieve certain goals. First of all, we will have a better payment of the residence tax, estimated from the current 64 million kuna to more than 100 million kuna. And already in this year 2005, which directly increases the income of tourist communities with proportionate effects on municipal, urban and regional budgets according to the current distribution of income, we already know how to allocate income from tourist tax. Reducing and reducing to black, directing inspections to housekeeping that are not registered at all for the provision of services and dealing with black work. But what's also important, their transition to legal dealing with situated tourists. So we're going to get the effect that even those who aren't registered at all, and they're working on black, that they're going to apply and start doing legal business. There is also clear that we will have a reduced number of undeclared guests and better monitoring of the tourist season. Here I'll tell you that, in some times during the tourist season, we had the same number of arrivals and one number of overnight stays. What does that mean? This means that the guest practically stayed in Croatia one day. If we have the same number of arrivals, the same number of nights he therefore stayed one day in Croatia and all of this was practically staying because we know that no one comes for one day. All of this was practically undeclared. Or that practice that we all know that the guests were staying for seven or ten days and that they were reported for two, three days, and that's why we had when it was statisticalally watched we had an average number of stays in three days which clearly wasn't true. Now, in the end because I think this is absolutely clear. In the end, why the emergency procedure and why now? Look, we prepared in the ministry a package of laws on tourist communities. In this package there is also the Law on Tourist Communities, the Law on residence tax and the Law on membership fees. It will come in a regular procedure during this year. I don't know when and when we'll refer it to the government, the government will then refer it to the parliamentary procedure. Whether it's summer or after summer I don't know but this year probably will. However, I said before that we want to have effects this year in terms of both higher incomes and all that I have already listed and that these amendments to the law will, if you accept them and vote, have an effect already this year. In this respect, the law also referred to the emergency procedure in order to vote as soon as possible and to come into force clearly this tourist year. And I am convinced that this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on residence will not only contain the gray economy in this part where we all know that we have had it and that we have more than we have to obtain a whole series of positive effects until the fact that the tourist who comes here is safe and better and that he will appreciate it more when he knows that we have a situation in this area and that we do not have to think if he rents a room or an apartment whether his arrival is registered or not. In this proposal and in these conditions when this law is adopted in any case, this issue will be resolved in the best possible way for both the state and the guest but in any case also for the tenant. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33668	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33669	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, it is not exactly Mr. Secretary's claim that if we accept these changes, we will reduce the lease to black. It's just the other way around. If we accept this then renting on black will be encouraged because in order to pay for the one who rents the bed that bed should be full of at least 43 days. And we have a large number of small tenants who don't fill that bed for 43 days, and you're going to make them head towards that gray zone to rent on black. And just the other way around, it's going to be less charge and not more, and by these measures, you're going to encourage work on black. So this is a bad suggestion and your allegations are not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33670	It can be a correction of the quote and it can be a correction of opinion. But that's how we do it, then. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Okay. On behalf of the Tourism Committee, Mr. Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues! The Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 16th session of the Committee held on 9 March 2005 a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on residence tax with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 17 February 2005, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as the home working body. Introductory presentation on the reasons for the submission of the residence tax Act, which is primarily the efficiency of payment and payment of the residence tax, the reduction of the illegal rent of rooms and apartments of citizens in the household and the simpler inspection supervision on behalf of the applicant was submitted by Mr Zdenko Mičić, State Secretary for Tourism. In the general debate on the need to pass the proposed law, support is given to the introduction of a new model of flat-rate accounting and payment of residence tax as one of the measures to prevent the grey economy in this form of accommodation which, with more than 40%, participates in the total Croatian tourist offer. The debate on certain parts highlights a number of opinions and views and that we should consider the possibility of introducing a selective approach in determining the height of the annual flat-rate amount, depending on the position of the place or settlement within a particular county, and therefore carry out a certain categorisation and degree of the flat-rate rate of the tourist tax. Secondly, the proposed law does not address the problems of renting holiday houses and apartments and other private accommodation on black. In order to consider the possibility of using a selective approach when it comes to certain lower social categories of citizens who are of great importance and less income from renting several beds. On the basis of the debate held, the Tourism Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a law supplementing the Law on residence tax with the following amendments. Amendment 1 to Article 1 In Article 1 of the new Article 5c, paragraph 1, the words "for each bed and accommodation unit in the camp used" are added: "in accordance with the decision on the authorisation of the provision of catering services of citizens in the household" and the words "to provide accommodation services in accordance with the rules on the provision of accommodation services" are deleted so that the article reads as follows: "Citizens who are registered for the provision of accommodation services in the household according to the regulation governing the catering activity (In the following text: citizens in the household) pay the annual flat-rate fee for each bed and accommodation unit and camp used in accordance with the authorisation for the provision of catering services of citizens in the household." The reasons for this amendment are that the proposed amendments set out more precisely the category of payment obligations for the annual flat-rate tax, since the previous formulation had a broader possibility of interpretation and thus different interpretation, in particular as regards inspection and their jurisdiction. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 2 at the end of the new paragraph 4 of Article 11, the words ‘except for accommodation services in a rural household’ shall be added, so as to read: ‘Article 3(3) of this Article shall not apply to households referred to in Article 5c paragraph 1 of this Act except for the provision of accommodation services in a rural household’. The purpose of this amendment is to encourage the proposed changes and to facilitate the business of households in a new selective form of tourism for rural tourism. Amendment 3 to Article 4 In Article 4 at the end of the first and second indents, the words are added: "except for the provision of accommodation services in the peasant household.". Thus, Article 4 now states: "The entry into force of this Act ceases to apply the provisions of the Law on the catering activity of the "National Journal 49/3" consolidated text 117/3 and this Article 39(1), paragraph 4 and Article 57 paragraph 1 of point 6 in the section relating to the visible highlighting of the amount of tourist tax other than for the provision of accommodation services in the rural household. Both Article 39(1) and Article 57(1), point (7) of the section relating to the indication of the amount of residence tax in the account except for the provision of accommodation services in the rural household." The explanation of this amendment is identical to that of the previous one, namely to facilitate a new selective form of tourism, and it is rural tourism that can, with as little problems as possible, develop uninterruptedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33672	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33673	Dear Mr. Vice President, very esteemed Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed legal text refers to the fact that under the new Law private tenants would be taxed with a flat-rate amount of 600 kuna per registered bed instead of the previous way that included paying a residence tax of 7 kuna per adult per day and income tax of approximately 7.5% of the paid income from rental. Of the 600 kuna mentioned per bed 300 refers to residence tax and 300 per income tax. The proposal may seem simple and good at first sight, but the problem is that when determining the amount of paushale, the situation on our tourist market has proved to be unknown. Namely, if we share the amount of the flat-rate flat-rate fee of 300 kuna with the amount of the 7 kuna tourist tax, we will receive 42.86 days of filling in order to make this flat-rate come true. Taking into account also the fact that at least 30% of children who do not pay their stay tax are staying in apartments and rooms, the number of days required to take a shower for a tourist tax under quotes is increasing to 55.72. In view of the fact that last year's average capacity capacity is in private accommodation, e.g. Sibenik-Knin County was 28, in Split-Dalmatia for only 22 days, it is evident how much of the tax burden it represents for the people involved in this activity in the area. Even if we accept the fact that there were 10-30% of unreported guests, there is still a significant disproportion. If we consider part of the flat-rate tax on rent income, the lack of knowledge of the situation on our tourist market is even greater. Therefore, if 300 kuna is a income tax that was calculated at a rate of 7.5% it would mean that the income obtained per bed should amount to 4 thousand kuna. This results in a four - bed apartment making 16 thousand kuna per season. Starting from the number of days of filling that was taken as a basis for determining the residence tax flats, it is 42 days, we conclude that the apartment should have a minimum price of 373 kuna per day for the intended income. We know from many years of practice that such a price in the area of especially northern Dalmatia can only be achieved within 15-20 days of the biggest tourist peak while in other periods prices are much less. The SDP club believes that this legislative proposal is not good for the following reasons. First, because it represents an increase in tax burden for the poorest tenants and favours so-called. big tenants. Secondly, because it does not take into account the regional specificities and tourism development of certain regions. Third, because it rewards those who worked on black without reporting their capacities... And punish those who have worked legally so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Fourthly, because it will not justify one of the basic arguments that defends its adoption, which is the suppression of the black market, the exact opposite will be the result of the mass release of the bed and the transition to illegal labour. Fifthly, because in the areas of tourism laws must never be passed several months before the tourist season, when prices have already been formed, contracts with foreign partners and printed catalogues are concluded, because people who sell Croatian tourist products by changing business conditions at the last minute are presented to non-serious partners and are compromised in the eyes of those they work with. The sixth, because the issue of the black market is a question of ineffectiveness of the state administration and inspection services and I should therefore consider and harmonise the rules of this domain. Therefore, the whole problem needs to be considered comprehensively because this is not how the desired effects will be achieved. Both seven, and most importantly, because such a law opposes the fundamental principles of social democracy that to meet the general needs of society through taxation of those who make greater incomes must participate to a greater extent than those who achieve less. And to recap. This bill is not good. He only contributes to tenants who have more than 42 days in full and they will pay less tourist tax than so far, which means less tourist tax in the budgets of tourist communities. Small tenants, the largest number of whom this type of activity is often and the only choice of income will increase giving and threaten to force them into black rental. So the effects we expect from this bill will be quite the opposite of what we expect. It will not reduce rent to black and there will be less money in the tourist communities' budgets. The SDP Club will, together with the HSS Club, propose amendments to which we intend to fix the legal text and introduce a transitional solution for so-called. Little tenants. Otherwise, the SDP Club cannot support this proposed solution. In the end, I would like to believe that this law will not experience the fate of government regulations such as a regulation on driving tests and a regulation on the control of black charters at sea where under the pressure of the professional and general public, the government had to withdraw the proposal very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33674	Thank you very much, colleague. We also have one correction to the incorrect assumption. A fellow representative, Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33675	Here, correcting the incorrect allegations, the honourable representative said the proposed law would encourage work on black. It's the opposite. Why? Because after this entry into force, undeclared tenants will report their apartments and accommodation units to focus from inspection supervision to those who have not reported their apartments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33676	I'm not sure you've corrected an incorrect quote. I think you've explained more, but you've tried. Okay. On behalf of the HSP Club, colleague Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33677	Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, I find it interesting to listen to the presentation on behalf of the SDP Club because of the fact that the concepts of the gray economy, the work on black, the non-payment of residence fees are repeated at least 10 years ago. Back 10 years, and what have we done in this area in the field of tourism? Little or nothing. Little or nothing. I can say from that point of view that I know what kind of back 10 years were the proposals for this problem to be solved, so the former government also had these proposals, and the current government has them, and the results are none. Therefore, I must immediately express my reserve on behalf of the HSP Club according to the planned achievements of this Law. And the planned achievements say: the proposed law will ensure more effective payment and payment of residence tax, combating monitoring of tourist traffic, reduce the number of black rentals and allow faster, simpler inspection of private tenants. Is that what we get by this law? We don't win. Do we get an effective system with resources and measures to systematically curb the grey economy in the field of tourism? We don't win. Was this law supposed to be brought net before the upcoming tourist season? You shouldn't have. We won't achieve much of this kind of partial effort because according to the solutions contained inside, we won't have a sparrow in our hand, and the pigeon is still on the branch. How should these problems be dealt with systematically and effectively? First of all, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on state inspectorate and this law package, according to us at the HSP Club, was to come at the end of last year, at the latest in December so that everyone would be familiar with this upcoming tourist season how and in what way will they act, how and how can they work? Why do I say that? I say because the achievements of this law are small. As a rule, we agree that a good, good solution to the issue of residence fees is to replace it with a bean. Paushal as such is good especially for this part, especially for many tertiary activities because it thus gives far less commitment related accounting, financial to those who deal with this part. But it can't be introduced overnight and in the way it's punished. Here's the fact that the secretary of state on the Legislator's Committee said it would be enough 4, 5 days per bed to cover this bed, and the minister says six days, already says that even that simulation within the government is not done in a way that has to be done. And so if we want to systematically and effectively curb the gray economy, if we want illegality, then we have to go parallel to both laws. Because what's our problem? We don't have that many problems registered to renters. They're not that much of a problem. The biggest problem is both in the gray economy and working on black create illegal ones, so those who aren't registered. That's a bigger problem. And the achievements of this law only go to registered ones. That means whoever's already under obligation again will be subject to inspection and everything else. And what about those who basically destroy the prices of these registered tenants. That's the biggest problem. It was therefore necessary to go in parallel with the Law amending and supplementing the State Inspectorate Act and to allow for measures. Inspectors do not have adequate measures to combat this... So in the current situation, the inspector is asked to get some results, and that's like giving him a water gun and sending him to a tank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do I say that? Because, for example, in areas where this has responded, the issue of working in catering facilities outside allowed working hours has been taken into account, the inspectors have been temporarily closed for up to a month. And that measure was preventive, but it had to be implemented in a number of cases and it got results. She's got the results. So we have to have that part in the fight against unregistered, against working on black, against the gray economy of measures that will be like prevention but will have to be applied sometimes. And so that problem has been contained. The same situation was also with the illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials. As long as the inspectors did not receive the authority to close the forced, the confiscation of the unlawfully acquired assets only then achieved certain results and could be acted upon and achieved in this area, resulting in far greater results. So we're not gonna do that with these. We only go to registered ones, and we know for ourselves that the phenomenon is now that many who have been registered are checking out their registrations. They're checking out their registration. Furthermore, the problem is all this and insufficient categorization. It is not the same to have an apartment or rent a bed 100 meters from the beach, from the sea or above the highway, for example 4.5 kilometers. It's not the same situation on the island when we know it's not, that it won't have a full bed for 42 days and other areas. There's 25 and below 25, and because of that, when it went into this part, this is a paralytic partial measure that should have been combined. The combination. A shower or a stay tax to begin with. It means that in the first phase, it is possible for one who is engaged in the renting of a bed, the apartments to decide for the first time whether to go to pay the tourist tax or to go to this variant of paying for the cot. And that would be correct for all those who deal, who are properly registered, who are not working on black that first, firstly means that they are given the possibility that they decide which variant they will go to. After that, after 6, 7 months or after this season, when you see what the results are you will get much better results concrete, but I say you should protect them. How do you protect them? Inspectors should be given the authority to fight against those who are not registered, and we know the situation ourselves. The inspector can't enter a facility that deals with illegals unless there's a judge's warrant for a misdemeanor. He has to get a warrant. And especially the biggest problem is the issue of foreigners who have apartments in Croatia. We won't name them, there are Hungarians and Slovenians, it doesn't matter at all. There happen to you such situations that only the key is given one, one guest comes instead of another. And now look at the fact, the Committee was told that, let's say last year, the number of guests in Croatia increased 7%, and the number of people registered, means they paid residence fees 2%. And the very fact that it's said that 10 to 30% of the cases do not pay the residence tax are already talking a lot about the whole problem. And now what's going on here, there are other variations that I can only describe for the area, say, from Senj to Zadar. These are those variations that trailers camp out means not in places where they're allowed, but outside these areas in wild areas. And that's where no one reacts. The inspector can't react because it's communal director's relevance. And all those municipalities don't have communal directors. If there's one communal director, and he's asking how qualified and what kind of measures he can take. So in conclusion, I don't think we're going to achieve what's planned by this law at all, we're going to deal with the gray economy. That we will allow the protection of registered non-registered until the law on amendments and additions to the law on the State Inspectorate is passed. And so, as the HSP Club would support, I suggest that for the first stage, you put an alternative option for all those who are registered, so that they can decide whether to go on a cobweb or a residence tax. But we expect the law on amending and supplementing the state inspectorate law to come on if not to this one then to the next session, because that's the only way we're going to round up the system and that's the only way we can expect results. Because in this case we can't have a phenomenon that we're going to have more and more unregistered and registered ruins the price of registered renters and we're going to make a bigger problem and chaos in the tourism area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33678	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS fellow representative Željko Kurtov please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33679	Dear vice presidents, respected ministers and associates, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal would introduce citizens who provide catering services in the household with a flat-rate payment obligation for each bed and accommodation unit in the camp used to provide accommodation services in accordance with the regulations. Since the proposed calculation of the annual flat-rate amount by an equal number of beds would vary depending on the area in which the services are provided. As the main reason for the change in the current way of accounting for residence fees, it is noted that the residence tax is the most important and generally the highest source of income for tourist communities. But according to certain estimates, as many as 10 to 30% of the catering service providers are renting rooms and apartments on black. As a result, the tourist community is listed which is often faced with a lack of resources to carry out its legal duties, and is making it significantly difficult for them to monitor tourism traffic. At the same time with state inspectors, the state inspectorate is a great pressure, especially during the summer months. YES, they are effectively carrying out their respective tasks under the law. They control the legality of the payment and payment of the residence tax. And reporting guests to the tourist community. What to say, the state must and should collect a residence tax but not in a way that transfers the burden of its incompetence to the citizens. Such a model of billing and billing is expected to be stimulating, and motivated by registered and unregistered tenants unless the amount of fees per bed or place on the camp is too high compared to the existing fees, although the tenant does not have to meet the additional administrative burdens compared to the current model. Tax obligations are also expected because they will not be in the zone of the highest interest of inspection services. The final outcome is considered to be that the proposed measures will ensure more effective payment and payment of the tourist tax better monitoring of tourist traffic, that the number of black owners will be reduced and that faster, simpler inspection of private owners will be allowed. The analysis of all these leads to certain conclusions, the promoter has indeed devised a way of paying a residence tax that would be simpler than the one so far. But he took note of the fact that this way of calculating if he were the only one possible as suggested, he wouldn't be fair. Namely private renters as the basis for the flat-rate residence tax were taken on base for 40 days. Their fill-ups. This is actually in favour of tenants whose number of days of capacity utilisation has been more than 40 days so far. But what about those citizens who rent their capacities less than 40 days a year. According to them, this is not an unfair, unrequited and discriminatory way of calculating the residence tax. This would mean that all the funds collected by the tenants who have only 20 days in full should be paid to the state annually for all their investment, and that would be the only way to fill the case of tourist communities and the state. The impact of this proposal if it is accepted will not be stimulating and motivated. It's how it's supposed to be. On the contrary to citizens who have been registered so far to provide household accommodation services and provided these services for less than 40 days, it will act demotively. That they are registered and pay the same fee for services that make far less profit. Of those who are also registered, but are engaged for 40 days and are therefore paid more. In other words, the same fee would be paid by the registered person who works one day and by the one who works 100 days. This cannot be motivated of course not to lose sight that this changed way of calculating the residence tax refers only to private tenants who are registered, registered their activity. Unregistered tenants have not paid a fee so far, taking risks in view of the strengthening of the functioning of the State Inspectorate. So it's so hard to expect him to do it in the future. The large majority of unregistered tenants did not register precisely because, given the revenues they made by renting the residence tax, they were too burdensome and not because they were excessively administratively demanding. The proposal stresses that the management of these unregistered tenants remains the only real concern of the State Inspectorate, which would thus focus all its attention on them. However, how the State Inspectorate would do so is not quite clear given the existing powers under which inspectors should not enter houses that are not registered for rent without a police order, so it is possible to represent rental as providing accommodation to relatives and friends. This is expected to have a stimulating effect on citizens, thus increasing the number of legally registered tenants. However, if the billing of the residence tax is carried out only by this proposed model, it is likely that those under whom such accounting is unfair and risky will try to avoid it. In fact, that is why there is a danger of increasing the number of renters to black. As a solution, I would suggest that, in addition to the proposed method of accounting, this existing one be maintained, so that citizens can make a choice whether they will pay the flat rate of the residence tax or continue with the current way of accounting in this way, it would be a decision for citizens to be charged with residence fees. But also taking the risk of the cost-effectiveness of one or another method of accounting in a particular case. This would allow market principles to regulate this issue and could indeed be expected to increase in the number of service providers reported. At the same time, there would be no question of the upcoming tourist season, there would be no reason to increase the cost of accommodation, citizens would continue to be motivated, rent their capacities, and thus develop the private tourism sector, and tourist communities would raise most of the funds than could be expected according to the current or model whose introduction is proposed. For all these reasons, the HNS Club will support this proposal with the amendment that we are applying. I'll read it. Article 1 behind the word "citizens in the household" adds the word "rule". A new paragraph 6 is added in paragraph 5, which reads as follows: "Citizens referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may be decided instead of paying a flat-rate fee and paying in accordance with the amount of services actually provided. This decision is for citizens to deliver to the competent authority of local self-government no later than 15 January for the current year. Otherwise, they will be charged a flat-rate fee. Reason, these amendments give the possibility of a choice between two ways of charging a residence tax. This solves the problem of citizens at less attractive tourist sites, which, due to relatively short annual fill-up in the paushale system, have been brought into a significantly worse position by supplementing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33680	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, colleague Mladen Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33681	Dear colleagues, Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. After record tourist results achieved last year before our tourism, the challenge is to consolidate the levels of physical traffic achieved, assuming that there is an increase in market traffic that is possible at the moment. First of all, the English, French and Scandinavian markets are thought of. Before the announcement of the buking for this tourist season, the results are actually positive, and the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development has set itself a very clear strategic goal. To position Croatian tourism on the international market as a safe and attractive tourist country, and to increase physical traffic by 2% and 5% revenue. The government's efforts to invest in the original infrastructure are well known, the end of the Zagreb-Split highway, the adjustment of the work of airports and ferry ports towards traffic intensity, and all in order to ensure quality conditions for the preparation of the tourist season that will begin on 1 June. Of course, with the main objectives are to encourage the restoration and construction of existing and construction of new small hotels, the privatisation of hotel companies, the promotion of a selective form of tourism in the continental area. And finally the least grateful and popular but set goal of curbing the "grey economy". I believe in fact that the state is the most responsible for the existence of such a large "grey economy", so I believe that it is also responsible for its suppression. I believe this proposal will achieve the objective of amending the residence tax law. Discussing most of the work on black in tourism, and the HDZ Club will support it. These changes greatly regulate and change the obligations of catering service providers in households or popularly as we call them private owners. Private owners account for 40% of all accommodation facilities in the Republic of Croatia with almost 340 thousand registered beds. This share of private owners in the total structure is unique in the Mediterranean. And in the previous tourist year, we often heard about the problem of the business of these tenants. Private tenants complained that there were not enough guests, then tourist communities as their guests did not register, no tourist tax is paid, etc., etc. So there are always problems. The State Inspectorate also warned last year that it is inadequate and permanent to control all 50,000 registered tenants and, in addition, focus on black owners, or those not registered to perform this tourist activity. The assessment of the tourist communities themselves, confirmed by the inspectorate, suggests that 10 to 30% of registered private owners do not pay a tourist tax depending on the area and do not report guests. So we can talk about 30% participation in the "grey economy". If we take only a mild estimate, assuming that every private tenant has been silenced only one night in the pit, then we come up with a figure of 25 million kuna for which the system of the tourist community has been damaged, as well as local administrations. The numbers are probably even more devastating. But it is not only the damaged tourist communities but also the district cities, the municipalities, because we know that local budgets are partly financed from the residence tax. How profitable it is to deal with private rental talks and the fact that almost 14% of new owners are registered each year, which means that this activity has no difficulty with capacity filling as we have actually heard here today from, in front of some clubs. Generally known problems of working on "black", non-reporting guests, non-payment of residence tax and tax, inability to carry out inspection controls to the greatest extent are currently linked to private renters. Even with the enormous efforts of the competent inspectors and the great financial expenditure to carry out financial supervision, this phenomenon will not be resolved satisfactorily. It was precisely because of the negative occurrences of the avoidance of legal obligations that have been spoken of and written and heard for many years that concrete measures had to be taken. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has firmly cut off the situation so far and has proposed adequate and meaningful changes aimed at significantly introducing order into the structures of private tenants. In the proposed way, it would be ensured that the residence tax would be paid at an average number of overnight stays per bed or camp unit in the previous year, reducing the costs of carrying out inspection controls. In addition, the number of undeclared guests and tourist communities will be reduced to allow better monitoring of tourism traffic. It is completely realistic to expect that a number of registered tenants will check out the activity. Here we must note that they will be the first to be struck by the State Inspectorate and their oversight services. The inspectorate should also be struck by unregistered tenants and we hope that they will soon have the opportunity to discuss, that we will have the opportunity to discuss amendments to the State Inspectorate Act as we have heard here today. The proposal for a flat-rate stay tax does not put all places in the same position as good. There is, however, different places by the sea, places that are not by the sea, especially taking care of areas of need of public care and the islands of the first group. It is interesting to note how better filling of private accommodation in places that are not by the sea is recorded in some areas, but rather for those who are first row to the sea. It is proposed that in those places with more than 40 days, which I have not heard of from other colleagues, city or municipal councils are decided to increase the flat-rate tax, but no more than double the amount. This allowed the local administration to have the possibility of intervention in this case, of course, if relevant and reasoned indicators exist. The government has very strongly tackled an unsatisfactory economy, which shows that, in addition to the introduction of a flat-rate residence tax, private renters are being introduced as well as a flat-rate taxation, which will ultimately lead to the efficiency of an efficient and simpler system and greater organisation since this season. The criticism that now is not the right time to pass the proposed enrolment does not stand. For years, such a reason has been used as an excuse for not changing anything in that segment. Change is actually inevitable. That every change causes open dissension is known from before. Therefore, it should not be surprising that just those who will force these changes to do legal business will also be the loudest opponents of such a model and we should not really protect them. Today, the tourism market operates in conditions of ideal competition when it is safe so it is greater than demand. Croatia is not a monopoly in any segment of Croatian tourism, and we can only build a tourist product through better offer, accommodation, infrastructure, beach editing. I believe that the proposed amendment to the residence tax law will make a full contribution to the objectives presented and the HDZ Club will support it as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33682	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first one came from MP Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33683	Well, my colleague said a lot of inaccuracies, and I'll just look back at the last one. Veli Vlad will use this law to reduce a significant number of unregistered tenants. This law does not have any of its articles on unregistered ones, only talks about those who are registered.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33684	Thank you very much. Next correction of the incorrect quote, MP Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33685	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A respected colleague said the adoption of this law would give him a better insight into tourism traffic. That is, part of the argument, however, as a cobweb can get a better insight into real traffic, I don't think it's clear to anyone alive either here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33686	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, colleague of Ante Markov. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33687	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal to amend the Law on residence tax appears to be a fiscal measure which should respond in one margin to the obvious great expectations and major problems that exist, and just such an observation of this measure is not, will not necessarily lead to what we want to discuss or address. Therefore, the context of this debate cannot be seen without getting acquainted with the genealogy of the problem in private accommodation, or I will say so with the history of the creation of a famous private accommodation in the Republic of Croatia. Of course private accommodation developed as an alternative exclusively at the level of hospitality. So it developed in the first beginnings of the development of tourism in Croatia and was created as a particular form of household, hospitality and way of providing services at a time when hospitality was the only known solution in terms of tourists coming to our region. Today's figures that say that complementary accommodation, meaning inclusive and private accommodation account for almost 65% of the total structure of accommodation in the Republic of Croatia, speak about the seriousness, but also the need for society, to look at each other's huge reserves that Croatian tourism potential has, which is not fully focused in the direction in which it should be a growth generator, a employment generator and a tourism development generator on those principles that the Croatian tourism development strategy wants, which is the creation of Croatia as a high commercial, expensive and special destination. Is it necessary for private accommodation as a specific alternative accommodation in conflict with the objectives of the tourism development strategy to be good, to be expensive and to be excellent? No, I don't. Because any type of accommodation like any goods can find its buyer if it's good in its contents. He who comes to private accommodation knows what he expects as well as a guest who comes to a hotel with four or more stars knows exactly what he expects and how much it costs him. Therefore, the cost of cost should not be the reason that sometimes in the statements of those involved or located in the tourism system, private accommodation is declared guilty and private owners, whether the season is good or not, and through them certain discussions are held and are mainly due to the participation of private accommodation in the overall structure declared guilty or not organised, etc. Which would be a task to fully systemise this very accommodation and part of that part, a very important part of Croatia's tourist offer and to bring it to a level to be acceptable and to be able to buy on the market. Why buy it? Because today's way of selling in most places is talking about it, and clearly everyone when they talk about it, everybody's afraid about how people stand with tables on the streets, cars that say "bimmer frei," and so does everyone. But gentlemen, that's the market, too. If you didn't provide a man with another way of communicating through the middleman, which is travel agencies, then the man manages himself and wants to survive. He wants to get to the point where he sells his goods. That his goods are bad, so he knows he's bad, but unfortunately, she's who she is. Therefore, in this part of the private accommodation segment, it must be organised, targeted and strategy to bring this type of accommodation into that position in which we want to bring it, but there should also be a social line, it should be known to recognise the different structures within the structure of private owners. You have indeed recently had a large number of citizens who have been seriously organised, systematically adapted to the needs of tourists who come to Croatia and have apartments, have rooms, have organised additional facilities, in one word they represent a serious offer that is not ashamed of so-called. unified hotel offers. That there are such structures and directions of tourism movement let's say in the last 5-6 years they've been going in that direction. However, there is also a very large number of those 354 thousand 348 and 300 beds in this form of accommodation or 50,000 renters, there are more than half of the renters that rent in something different. What regime? So practically out of their own house they move into the basement or into the neighbouring old house, from their room they move into the kitchen to earn certain means of life and that social moment should also not be overly stressed because Croatia's offer will be ruined in terms of reputation due to these. No, it's that kind of stuff. It will find or will not find its buyer, but as long as the goods are found by the buyer, it means that there is justification for that cooperation. So why am I saying this in terms of different structures in private accommodation, those that are organised, those who earn, those who, however, serve as primary occupation, primary activity and from that draw their means of life and those who complete their home budget in this way. Of course, from the very beginning in terms of guest registration, but especially in terms of tourism tax which is very stimulating, there are huge problems in charge. He would even dare to say that bigger tax problems than the residence tax and data itself this year show that, unfortunately, a huge number of taxes have just disappeared in the structure of those who are obliged to pay income tax for rent. Therefore, that order should be introduced, that this type of accommodation should be systematised, I don't think anyone here is questioning it. And in fact, this measure is also proposed as one of the measures that should help to systemize this part of our accommodation capacity, to be fair, to be equal to all in terms of tax conditions and to be as acceptable to our guests and tourists as possible. Unfortunately, you can't, it's always said, "Well the task of inspection is to do your job, that it deals with those who aren't reported, that those who don't report and work black or work on gray to find them." You know, you can't go after serious thieves with a gun on the water. You can't. You have to comply with what you want to do. Therefore, the inspection services and our entire system of the State Inspectorate in this way should be changed and placed in a position to keep it active. Because what's happening to you? In practice, all those who deal with tourism know, the most visits are those that are the most legitimate. Who have a nice prominent table, which neatly report because it is best to come to them, the easiest. Maybe out of 10, 15 beds you can find 1, 2 that haven't been reported and that's where you made yours. And those strong who have protected themselves with large high fences where there is no solution for carrying out their activities, unfortunately, there is no inspectorate there. So he can't come there. So he absolutely put that group aside. We keep her that it's a black illegal group, but she works. Therefore, to bring order this segment requires far stronger measures and not only fiscal policies, not only accounting policies, not only residence taxes but also taxes. Further measures are needed to create circumstances to address this. But let's go back to the bill itself and what he means. He's trying to make certain flat-rate variants, so, something of course in the very sense is not fair, someone who's good will get an average and who's paid a lot so far, and has a lot to gain from this, benefit. Whoever was little will either hit this or they won't impress him too much. Therefore, the question of fairness in this matter, each one of the pausals is asked. The purpose and purpose, they stand for something better, a special purpose. They want, the state wants to earn as much money as possible, the tourist communities hope that out of that cake that belongs to them, local tourist communities will be around 65%. They will also participate as much as possible. Society expects this to create an invitation, under quotes, to those who have not been in the system so far to go into the system and say, "Well, I'll pay for those, that shower and no one will touch me anymore." So that's the motive the government has ahead of it. The other part that opposes this positive motive is those tenants I was talking about, which do not belong to the structure of professional, serious or large. Those who move 1.6 from their home, from their apartment, move from their room to the basement or to the kitchen to obtain a certain additional source of income. For that part and for such, it is necessary to provide for a transitional measure, a measure that will enable them. Yeah, I'll take a break if it's worth it to me and if I have a business for over 40 days, or if I won't take a shower and I'll be in the regime by day, my stay tax is that much and so much. Which means in other words, let's give an alternative in the transitional period that those who want to accept a flat break, accept a flat-rate, and those who feel that they want to stay in the accounting regime of the tourist tax per day and at night let them do so. And by the measures of other factors in regulating this, above all, inspection services, but also by removing some illogicalities. Namely, and the one who wants to be legal, legitimate, you know what the problem is. If he doesn't have a valid permit he's under the Construction Act, it can't be. He can't get permission to work. And you don't think it's working? It's working, it's working. And only in the county where I come from do we have over 25% of those objects that unfortunately can't get permission. We have complicated the plans, centralized and dear God can no longer come up with a solution issued by the State Administration on the basis of valid spatial plans. If we don't fix it then we won't allow those who want to be legal and want to get a solution to the catering and tourist activities to get it, because simply the law doesn't allow others to be in the system. Therefore, there are a number of reasons for serious debate. You don't have to wait for government access to a knife like this. We at the HSS Club won't be hypocritical and say, "We're in opposition now and that's why we're going to attack this bill." No, we don't think so, we think that the measure taken with certain supplements for that structure that I said can achieve its goal. But it would be good, I know the government's in a hurry because I know the tourist season is on the threshold, but we have to protect and give an alternative. Give an alternative to those who want to be in the old accounting system and give opportunity to those who want to be in the shower to be in the shower. Believe me, it can serve as a good platform to address the issue of surveillance and special supervision for those who have no work permits and who have not been in the system so far. So let's give an alternative, paused day and night, so that we don't endanger those who deserve the least to be put at risk, which is the least they have. So let's give an alternative and let this serve as a good platform to bring in those laws in the coming days that will definitely encourage a different approach to this...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33688	My colleague, time, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33689	...the content. Thank you very much. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33690	All right. A proposaler's representative, Minister Bozidar Kalmeta, came forward. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33691	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here, I want to say a few things just. First of all, here we're talking about a maximum cobweb that's a maximum of 600 kuna. 600 kunas is big money, but in a business of 600 kuna and not some money, let's face it, and let's be honest. Whoever deals with the business in terms of income 600 kuna is no money. Therefore, what is further is that these 600 kunas, i.e. all obligations towards the state, will be settled in 6 days of renting a single bed or apartment. However, or apartment with 4 beds, it will also be all obligations towards the state owner who rents it in 6 days. In addition, there are extra beds in the apartments, and these extra beds are non-pausal. We all know that children usually sleep on extra beds, so now these kids won't pay their stay fees at all, so up to 12 years has been paid, so 12 to 18 has not been paid 50%. So that's one advantage. If we compare the current method of payment when there were 7 kunas per bed and 7.5% was tied about to come the same, so nothing in any absolute amounts anything this proposal that we propose will be no more and will no longer be paid as it has been so far. It's another thing if it hasn't been paid in black before, then the way it's been done so far has been more favourable but I think it's all of our best interest to stop the gray economy, to have more money in the state budget, and that's also the social category, more money in the state budget will be more money for social programs, etc., so that I don't have it here right now. I agree with Kovacevic, the matter of inspection, but here's the Inspectorate Act I think will be very soon, it's not the Law which my ministry proposes but by what I know but the law has come to our opinion and our Ministry is practically done and he will come before you very soon and I agree here, I agree that today there are no inspectors, he knows that this one rents on black, he's not registered and he can't do anything because he can't do it without a court order, etc. Some measures are being proposed, I will not talk about it because I say it is not the law that I will defend but some measures are being proposed that will be very effective that in such cases it can be resolved and it is agreeing with my colleague Kovacevic, I repeat that is the real question and that is something that needs to be regulated. However, this flat-rate payment I am convinced that he will all those who are now working on black and not working on black for 5 days, but working on black 30 days, 40 days, etc., will consider that he will register and will be calm both them and the guest, that they will all be calm together without less trauma I said before. It's about 600 kuna cobwebs that settle all obligations to the state, I think. The questions asked by colleagues Markov are what about those who rent 4.5 days, this is the same question on site if they would talk to the team that rent 5.6 days and are registered. I think those who rent 5, 6 days that they're not even registered, because it's not worth registering if they rent 5, 6 days, that means they rent on black. And if he's going to rent seven days already he's earned, though the question is, why would he pay 600 in 7 days like the one who rents 100 days the same pay 600 but not the ones who rent 6.7 days, people aren't registered to be honest and open here. And another thing when we talk about those 600 kunas, you don't have to pay right away, I said it at the beginning, you can pay in three times, so three times 200 kuna. And the registered private tenant is either, usually, some additional activity but the activity that is ultimately carried out for certain incomes and certain revenues must be paid to the State by that part of it, at least in this part which is really minimal in me and which is not large. We already have, these are the positive extremities of tenants who have booked for over 100 days, that is good, there is clear those who are 20 days, etc., but I think that this average that we took for about 40, 38 days, 39 days I think it is a good average, and that on the basis of such an average, this law will get the results that we think it will get, and I said at the beginning that the package of the Tourist Communities Act where the package was, the Law on Tourist Communities, the Law on residence fees and membership fees that it is ready to come to the government soon after that, and then we will have time this year to monitor what revenue is based on this pauschal if you decide that this law is to vote and we will be able to clearly in these new packages to install certain corrections. Here, I just want to say that with this we wanted to motivate everyone and protect them in some way all, give the inspection more space so that it can focus more on those who have not been reported, and the Inspectorate Act that it will give additional opportunities, powers to the inspectors so that they can further control and make sure that this form of the grey economy is contained further. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33692	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. You've caused two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is representative Antesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33693	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister said that according to this bill, no one will be given an increase because it is simply not true, but there is a limit of 42 days of filling. That tenant who makes less than 42 fills will increase his giving, and it increases that we must make it clear. And those who earn their wealth above them shall be reduced by giving. The limit of equality is approximately 42 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33694	Thank you very much, colleague. Second correction from his colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33695	The incorrect quote of Mr. Minister for the second time has been repeated that this will reduce the work on black because the truth is exactly the opposite of these small tenants and the crossover of this fact that you have to have a full capacity for 42 days to "pay" you rent, in fact conceals that everything is not the same as you said before and that everyone is now calm. Exactly the opposite of these small ones will be restless, small people are threatened, small tenants who can't be sure for so many days that they will have full capacity and with this proposal will give more than they had previously given, and those who are beyond that will benefit them. So the work on black will increase because these will be forced into that gray zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33696	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you colleagues and colleagues that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to discuss 10 minutes, so not for discussion but for the application of the debate. We're going to an individual debate. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33697	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates. AS ALREADY on behalf of the clubs, the proposal for a law supplementing the residence tax law was introduced on a flat basis, instead of the fixed amount paid by each tenant by the adult person 7 kuna. There have been long discussions, and for years debates have been conducted, and on taxes, so on fiscal policy itself, how some activity, so to collect higher duties, are more efficient, but also more just. Is it better to go in a flat-rate manner or exactly as real as it is, or how much income it leaves somewhere, or here, in a specific case, how many nights have been made? And it's quite clear that every country, every unit of local self-government for those non-conjunctural activities, where it has multiple benefits that this activity itself exists, and not because it fills the budget, is going to the flat-rate giving, such as the old crafts that are extinct, and for which it seems we haven't found the right answer again. However, for conjuncture activities to introduce a flatulent, we thus introduce only injustice. And what my colleague Jurevic said to the net, every law should be seen to be just. That's why this law won't get the basics, it won't be fair. What the promoter thinks, and what I think must be our common goal here, how to get to the bottom of the black market, and also in this activity, and how to charge residence fees in that real amount. We're really not going to do that with this bill of law. What then this proposal, here is the minister himself, is aware of that, I think the entire ministry has certainly failed, it's one of our long-standing state administration pains, the efficiency of the state administration, especially the inspectors themselves. Somewhere they kill themselves from work, the wages are small, they are unstimulating, and where they deal with the problem they face legal obstacles. And that's why it seems to me that, in any case, it was necessary to pre-calculate it, or to pass an effective law first of all on a state inspectorate which is basic, with this we produce only additional injustices. So, which means I'm happy if this bill is in the works, that is, to be found here before us, and then we would be more efficient on the basis of that law, or we would be able to respond in an efficient way and with regard to the collection of the same tourist tax that is true is the main source of financing for the tourist communities. However, as the Law on residence tax is now proposed, he means two. First, it means that the state has really capitulated in terms of working on black, even in terms of this activity. And it also means, it can mean something else, that the register is empty and that because it wants to be charged and what people have not achieved. And on the other hand, I'm saying, there's not going to be any charge for what big tenants, or bigger tenants, are doing. So, exactly the opposite. I mean, here, too, which has already been pointed out that there should be a difference, that there should also be a difference in these smaller tenants again. You have those smallest ones and the truth is maybe these people are completely uninterested in reporting. However, our logic suggests that the poorest are the most conscious in carrying out their tasks. We look at pensioners who fulfill all their givings, and then live off what's left of them. So are these smallest tenants. I know people who survive in such a way that they rent their own bed and are reported to be able to survive. So it seems to me that there are more and more of these things that are hidden in the ever greater than in the smaller ones. Maybe these smaller ones have more, but they in their total make a smaller problem than they make bigger. Therefore, if the system were to be efficient, then the proposals here would have to be heard to offer at least the smallest alternatives, whether they want to pay just at a flat rate or really after the night has been achieved. And for a little bit bigger, there's no cobwebs coming in anyway. Because that's how they only profit. Paushal means that, a cobweb, almost and directly, means a reduction in the activity of the inspector. The residence fee will be charged in that amount independently if and then another whole series of irregularities will be out of the reach of state control. Therefore, these small ones should be protected from unnecessary visits or frequent visits by inspectors. And offer, therefore, I think it can be fixed to provide these smallest tenants with the possibility of a flat-rate payment while I say these and a little larger in no way could be covered by a flat-rate payment. Not to say what is being said in our cities here, too, was a colleague of Kovacevic talking about trailers from Senj to Zadar parking. But we have, therefore, such a frequency and rush and aggression that they park trailers in the middle of town and sleep there. We don't have that in any city. What has appeared in our cities in recent years. Therefore, we must now strengthen the inspector's service. Good administration, strong administration especially in these inspection services means prevention, means security that I don't say how much it means and the security of the judiciary itself, because then the fewer cases are pouring in there. Therefore, it seems to me that the ministries, that the State Administration should now allocate that larger funding. I know it may be the biggest bite, it's an opportunity to say critically then that, which didn't have enough power or ex-government, she tried to do it, she found measures to stop the gray economy, and it seems to me that there are always measures, and to suppress the gray economy that will be paid for by the honest and the smallest. And that's what's unfair. And that's why it seems to me that if this bill were to stay like this, it's not good, because that way, the state would show again that it's weak to the strong and strong to the weak. And that's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33698	Thank you very much. Next up, fellow MP Joseph Leko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33699	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. I'll try only on three elements to point out how I see what effects this law will produce on the extensions of the residence tax law. And that I'm qualified to do it right now. The bill of law of things goes upside down. And another of my claims I'll try to prove all the cobwebs will pay taxes increased. Here's why. From the very proposal of the Law, read the provision of Articles 11 and 3, and see what this is about. Namely, residence tax is a tax on service and is paid by a person who stays somewhere. And it's only charged by the service provider. He only charges on behalf of the state or the tourist community. And the cobwebs can't charge me when we're going to stay at the cobwebs or show it to me in the account. He'll charge his income, he'll charge his income. Because he doesn't show the bill of residence, that's what the law says. He doesn't show, the cobweb doesn't show the payment of the residence fee. He has no obligation to charge a residence tax instead of so far. Neither will the account, explicitly said, have to specify. So instead of charging a fee on the service, we transfer it to activity tax. And that'll raise everyone's taxes. That'll raise everyone's taxes. And that's the opposite of what this government found in its program when it came to power. One measure was to encourage even the construction of private hotel owners. So it is questionable from the point of view of the legal system in the Republic of Croatia, that there are two categories of economic operators, this is about tourism activities that have different taxes. They have a different tax. I want to point to another circumstance. The income from the tourist tax is the arrival of tourist communities. It is now based on negative solidarity. Negative solidarity means that the weaker, the weaker, the stronger economically, the stronger will finance stronger and richer. If this is the tourism community's income and it is and the tourist community mainly aims to promote, it promotes tourism in the Republic of Croatia, of course, that this propaganda benefits more those who are stronger. We help the stronger twice. This is contrary to the principles on which the legal system is being built in the Republic of Croatia. That's what it's got to be about. That this is the case and in the light of the bill's proposal, it is even argued in the adopted arguments that this area will benefit from. These are of course richer tourist areas and the goal, the general goal in the Republic of Croatia is equalising the development of regions and regions in the Republic of Croatia, equality. That's what the government program says. This will not lead to it, but will strengthen those who are already more capable. The third circumstance I wish to point out and the minister, in an oral explanation, stated that the residence tax as the applicant sees it will be paid in three wars and that is not true. The law says "dwelling tax" because she's gone. She's gone. Anyone who accepts the flat rate of payment will pay taxes on a flat-rate basis, not a fee. He must pay the tax to the state in the seventh month or early seventh month. It says here, now I'm going to tell you exactly that. So, no matter how much he charged or how much traffic he had until July 31st, the current year will have to pay those three meals and the residence fee, colleagues and colleagues, is paid only when charged. If you don't charge and if you don't stay, you won't pay. Under these circumstances, each co-driver will have to pay a full amount of the cut-off tax on activity by 31.7. These are the effects of reading the law correctly. These are the effects. If it is added that these effects get in the way of business, the tourist business this year when the arrangements are concluded, when guests are already familiar with the price of the room, the price of the bed, when the contracts are completed, that means that the residence tax, the quasi tourist tax will only be converted to activity. The contract cannot be changed, of course it would not contribute to Croatian tourism as a whole. Therefore, at the very least, it should be stopped with the adoption of this law or prepared for next year in the form of an alternative option of choice but that a flat-rate fee may then be shown when one who rents accepts that it goes to his expense. In this way, they would equalize the conditions of adjudication. And I just want to say one more note. If the tourist community, as a social society, has problems identifying who rents the black market, then it must not really be transferred to those who are honest. It must not be solidarity that negative effects pay fair. This is not a good message in general for the legal system in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33700	Thank you very much, colleague. Zdenko Antešić is next in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33701	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! This law, the aim of the promoter, is to achieve two objectives. First, as is said to reduce the black market and other more money collected in city or state registers. As has already been said before in the introduction and from other colleagues, it is highly doubtful that this will reduce the black market. Namely, there is no problem in this segment of business for the tenant who, let's say, smuggle a few days of registration and check-out of guests. The problem is next. The problem is large apartment settlements, a big weekend settlement that deals with this activity completely without control. It's a basic problem and there's that 10 to 30% of the black market, which is the largest part of it. And now, instead of bringing in one system of measures that will fully view and regulate this area. So we look at only one segment of the problem or try to introduce a fiscal category into the activity or to pay the residence tax to solve this problem. It just doesn't hold, it's impossible, it's not feasible. The problem of the black market is the inefficiencies of the state administration, the inability of the state administration to deal with this problem and then shifts it to units of local self-government, i.e. to tourist communities, or cities and municipalities. This is not good, and this will not be achieved. The second thing, it has a very large number of so-called. small tenants who have a fill-in below that criterion that came up with an account here, which is 42 days. I ask you what will be done by a renter who has 6-7 beds or less and who has and is in such a position that rents an average of 15 days a year to either fix his own standard or often in some areas below is the only source of income. So we punish him. He will, if he joins this system of flat-rate taxation he will be punished or we will force him into the black market and we know for ourselves that it is impossible, it is impossible, for the third time, to exercise control of the current law in someone who exclusively deals with black rentals without a court order. Another thing, we so-called. The large tenants we reward, or less tax them, and this will overall result in the other effect that we wanted to achieve, which is more money in the city and state registers, so the effect will be completely left behind. So these big ones are going to pay less and we're going to get these little ones to be completely in the black zone. Other questions that open up here, for example. There's also a question of timing. We know for ourselves that in 20 days and less Easter, it is all unserious to bring this regulation 20 days before Easter, so before the beginning of the tourist season. Then, we know for ourselves that there are a number of objects that, for various reasons, do not have the necessary permits and they will not be able to be categorized, they will also have to turn into a black market. Second. When we speak, there was also talk of stimulating tourism, this segment of tourism as an activity. I think that's a question that requires certainly one broader approach, so, change, more... other regulations and reviewing then problems complexly because in this way certainly there will be no real result. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, for example. I am giving an example which, which has some of our competing countries, is the introduction of vignettes as stimulating measures in the presence of guests, by which a guest who logs in neatly gets a vignette and then is stimulated or paid for by some parking, some services in places and cities dealing with tourism. So the problem must certainly be seen more complexly because in this way we will not achieve what we want, but the effects will be completely reversed. So the black market will increase and the other will be less money in the city and the state register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33702	Thank you, colleague. It's up to my colleague, Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33703	Honored vice presidents, ministers and his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The payment of a residence tax is prescribed by the Law on residence tax and is required to pay guests in accordance with this Act at the same time as providing accommodation services. The height of the stay tax depending on the time and place of stay was 2 to 7 kuna per person per day for adults. Tourist tax is the most important and generally the biggest source of the tourist community's income. But because of the great work on black tourist communities, they often get into trouble because they do not have or cannot have enough resources because of not reporting guests and which leads to significant difficulties and monitoring of tourism traffic. And exactly in line with the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to combat the black economy, the Government sent this proposal for a law supplementing the residence tax, which is proposed to introduce an obligation already in 2005 to pay a residence tax in the annual flat-rate export to citizens registered for the provision of services, accommodation in the household and in private, for private tenants. This fee will be paid by private owners for each bed and for every accommodation unit in the camp they use to provide accommodation services, will be paid in favour of the tourist community of one or more of three meals. In the Republic of Croatia, nearly 50,000 private owners with about 340 thousand beds were registered, representing 40% of total accommodation facilities. But according to the tourist community, up to 30% of private renters, clearly depending on the area where they are located do not pay the tourist tax and do not report their guests but rent rooms and apartments on black. This problem has been present for years and is not addressed in a satisfactory way despite the enormous efforts of inspection services and the great expenditure to carry out these inspections. The model for the calculation and collection of the flat-rate income tax along with the flat-rate residence tax must be stimulating and motivating for the tenants. Namely, taxing plus bed tax will be focused on a simple procedure compared to the current one. This will encourage them to pay these obligations because they will not be with those interests of inspection services and we will also motivate unregistered tenants to register their activities. Proposing this lump sum of payments, the Proposer considers that certain objectives will be achieved and that better payment of the residence tax will also lead to higher revenues from tourist communities, reduction of renting to black, guidance of inspection supervision on non-registered households, their transition to legally performing tourist accommodation and a reduction of undeclared guests and better monitoring of tourist traffic. According to the proposal of the Law, the annual flat rate is the number of beds, i.e. the number of accommodation units in the camp, the coefficient of the area in which the service, accommodation and the height of the residence tax is provided by the Government on a proposal from the Minister. The height of the coefficient is determined depending on the area of the settlement, on the area, and so we put these settlements that go out to the sea or with more than 100 thousand inhabitants, have a coefficient of 1 etc. I am aware of a single initiative or a proposal from the County Tourist Board of Sibenik-Kninska to make a distance between the tourist communities, possibly here when determining the level of the flat-rate amount... a, b, c and d because it is also divided by law and thus smaller settlements and greater distinctions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let the suggestor think a little bit about whether that would be justified. This proposal for a law is on the trail of years of commitment to simplify administrative obligations that burden the provision of services, housing accommodation and particularly restraint have grown from the black market. The Commission notes that capacity fillment in certain areas is significantly less than the four-day average taken into account is certainly, certainly standing and will need to be taken into account. I would especially like to point out that I come from the county where the accommodation capacity in the household is 64 total capacities, 64% of total capacity, so 41 thousand 260 accommodation units in which a million 143 800 15 thousand overnight stays were charged 6 million and 150 thousand tourist tax. The average capacity of these facilities was about 30 days and a single accommodation unit charged 150 kuna of tourist tax. The model of flat-rate accounting and charges of residence tax and income tax must be stimulating and motivated because it will only result in effective, expected effects. We can say, however, that the calculations show that most tenants should not feel any greater negative effects of this proposal but rather should profit from the introduction of systems that renters working within the prescribed legal frameworks should put them outside the inspection service's area of interest. Inspectors should turn more to those black-based tenants. Namely, each inspector will confirm that the smallest problems of Croatian tourism are legal tenants who, despite the flat-rate payment of the tourist tax, will continue to be controlled. The problem that requires a systematic solution is an unregistered renter, owner of houses and holiday apartments that rent their properties on black. So far, they have not paid tax or residence tax, and they are unlikely to do so in the future. Such tenants are aware that under current powers inspectors are not allowed to enter their houses without police supervision and until the inspector's powers are extended, it is difficult to expect that the paushal will force the legal people to register their activities. In addition to unregistered Croatian tenants, the bigger problem is also the foreign owners of the property that rent their buildings. The participation of foreigners in illegal rentals is hard to say. But since more than 3,000 and 500 properties have been purchased in the last ten years by foreigners, yes, certain companies in Croatia have been bought, most of the property owners come from Germany, Austria and Hungary, and since these countries from which Croatians, the largest number of tourists, come to Croatia, should not doubt that many owners of houses and apartments have decided and made something by renting their relatives, friends at a time when the facilities are empty anyway. And let me get this straight. If by the beginning of the tourist season inspectors do not receive greater powers in the control of flat-rate tax and residence tax, they will not have a significant impact on the reduction of illegal rentals. The inspectors will then, as in previous seasons, control registered tenants while complicated procedures will distance them from unregistered tenants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33704	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33705	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate my colleagues to Ivasa the following way. In your presentation, you argued that this is the way the flat-rate payment of the residence tax is stimulating for all the tenants. Well, now I'd like you to explain to us here how it's stimulating for those little tenants under 42 days, and most of them are. Those tenants are most of them. So those whose average filling is less than 42 days. How and how is this stimulating for these tenants?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33706	Replication response, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33707	Well, I'll try to answer that. Namely, I'm... that it was good to change and reduce that on average which turns out to be this 40-day average because in our county it's an average of 30 days. [[The speaker is not understood, not enabled.]] [[- What's wrong with you? Turn it on.]] However, I think that the complicated application control procedure that landlords have to do when applying, and that in 6 days of renting their beds, they will still pay for this cot, will in some way stimulate these, and the landlords. However, I feel that without quality control of inspection services, all these effects will still not be possible, yet they can be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33708	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33709	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister Calmeta, where are you, Minister Calmeta? You left, and I just wanted to tell you how sweet you are, personally nice to me and certainly very capable man. But you seem to have been entrusted with a little too much of the ministry. You're actually a minister of the sea, of the sky and of the earth. That's probably why you refer to a parliamentary procedure like this as an unimaginative, inconceivable, but also a messy proposal. You're not the only one for comfort. That's where the Hunting Act was already found, and then the National Human Rights Protection Programme that the government withdrew when it was discussed here in the Parliament, and I recommend that you ministers do the same to this proposal. Pull it out of the process, think about it a little bit, make a new one first of all a neat proposal. Why do I say neat? Because Article 1 of the existing Law says: "A citizen who uses a service in a tourist resort outside his residence pays a tourist tax." And now in the law you're offering, you're saying that citizens who are registered to provide services pay... I'm going to take a [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now who's paying? Is the guest paid under Article 1 or are the tenants paying under the new Bill proposal? You're the law, so you're not in sync with yourself. Your new article is inconsistencies with Article 1. And now that the law is read, those he refers to have no idea, they have no idea who's the obligator of paying the flat-rate, these, residence fees. Because if you had annulled Article 1 or modified it and brought it into line with this change that you sent to Parliament, it would have made sense. This is one messy proposal. Incomprehensible to this This is how it comes to the Parliament. [[Intruder: Here comes the minister.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Minister, I really commended you. Next, you see the Ministers. This is the Law, which was issued in 1995, and in 2000 amendments and additions were made. For example, in that article, Article 12 of the Law remains unchanged, and Article 12 of Article 12 tells you about, Article 12 tells you about the fact that the residence tax is paid against the value of the domestic currency compared to the DEM at the national bank’s average rate. It's not there. It was abolished two, three years ago. No German marks. But that's what's left of you in the law. So when you've changed the law, why haven't you read the whole law, so you can see that it needs to be changed as well. That's why I'm saying it's messy. That's why I'm saying it's messy. Then I ask you, what about Article 3? See, you left article 3 in the Law. And Article 3 tells you that residence tax is not paid by children under 12 years of age, by blind and deaf persons with physical disability. I don't even know what that means. Because if they are blind and deaf, then they must be physically disabled, or they must still have physical disability, along with others, unfortunately blind and deaf. So then the participants of the school trips, so the persons... But look, if you bring in the cobwebs and then no one pays. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're all freed. Not just these. Why, then, do you need Article 3 in the law at all? Then Article 3 was to be thrown out. Because if they don't pay the customers, then they don't pay either by seeing the blind. Neither those who hear nor those who do not hear. Nobody pays. That's why I'm telling you that this bill is a mess. Well, since you've already agreed to the Minister's job to change the law, which you haven't changed in a nice way, Article 9. The law? That was supposed to change. Because Article 9 tells you that 25% of the money goes to the Croatian tourist community out of this tourist tax that is collected. It's Nikki Bulic. What's he doing? What's he doing? He travels through the fairs. Who's he responsible for his work to? Minister of Tourism. He can't, he's gone, you've abolished that ministry. No tourism ministry, no tourism minister. Who does that suit? The Parliament? No, I don't. No one, no one. He's got 25% of the money from that pick-up fee. So put that down, give it back to the local community. To those who will edit beaches, who have to light up where there is a promenade, who have to put trash baskets on those beaches. Return it to the tourist community and let Nikki Bulic give 1%, 2%. For what he's doing, he's had enough. Therefore, Minister, my most well-intentioned proposal is: withdraw this law now, correct this which I suggest that the law be logical, that it be consistent first and foremost within itself. Not that Article 1 does not correspond to Article 5c. You don't have German stamps in there, and not that Miko Bulic gets 25%. Please withdraw one meaningful proposal. Respect all that your colleagues have told you here, and then you will certainly receive the support of the entire Parliament and my personal one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33710	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33711	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We are ahead of us in the urgent procedure of the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on residence tax, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia before the coming season and this season, which takes place for a few days in a few days, is Easter. He allegedly wants to achieve efficiency in charging a residence tax. The government of the Republic of Croatia states that the residence tax is, as a rule, the most important income of the tourist communities. But also the assessment that the tourist communities themselves claim that from about 10 to 30% of household catering service providers do not report their guests depending on the area, but rents rooms and apartments on black. It rules the proposal that today puts before us representatives of the Croatian Parliament as it wants to eliminate work on black. And as the proposed changes to the model of payment of the flat-rate income tax, which the Minister of Finance already has, by virtue of its powers, brought, and now by the flat-rate payment of the tourist tax, it wants to create a model that will be as the Government in the explanation says, both stimulating and motivating for registered and unregistered tenants. I fear that after this law has been passed and I see that the will of the majority will be brought into the offices where the previously unregistered will apply to better register as registered. I'm afraid the columns will go in the opposite direction, and that actually these little ones that these little tenants who patch from day to day will actually check out in the obstacle to illegal renters. Unfortunately, it will be their destiny because this government and this assembly majority are driving them to do so. I think the starting points when making a proposal to amend this law are wrong. We've had numerous examples of wrong settings, let's say for example. During the debate on the Maritime Code where it was trying to impose itself as black tens of thousands of foreign vessels dealing with the black charter in the Croatian sea, hundreds of thousands of guests are transported by vessels in the black charter. That's just not true. I worked for 20 years in that service, yes, there's about 5% of a black charter somewhere, but it was worth starting with the assumption that everyone's fair is just some dishonest. But not from the reverse premium. So we made it in accordance with this law and regulation that we first applied a model that the world and Europe don't know, that at the beginning of the season someone must and even their mistress report to the crew list. And put it on the list. We enabled double capacity, and then we came to criticise from broadcasting tourist countries. We increased that capacity by 30% and yesterday I hear there was something else in the government that is unknown to the public. That same fate, I'm afraid, could experience this residence taxi bill. But to go back to this law. The question of what the Government really wants with this proposal. In my opinion, first of all, the principle of pausal in any activity other than the exceptions here is not about that. It is contrary to the principles of the market economy. In the market economy, tax policy must be stimulating, one who is worse at business stimulated to achieve better results rather than re-enact everything. The question of what we really want with this proposal. The question is, do we know our reality? It is true that about 50,000 private owners, with about 340 thousand beds, are registered in the Republic of Croatia, which makes up 40% of the accommodation capacity. But it's a question of what the average fill-up of these capacities is. Here is a colleague, Rada Ivas, mayor of one work with the sea, who said that in his county the average is 30 days. So how do we stimulate these little ones? We punish them, and that's definitely it. I come from a village in Peru near a tourist complex here's a colleague of Meden's here from Istria, he's gone. Where also recently thanks to the development of this tourist complex in the village there are small tenants that are 15 days old, 30 to 30 days. When these announcements came out in the media, people approached me and told me, so you're making us log out and work on the black like some people do. That's the model we're trying to adopt here today, and I'm afraid by the will of the ruling majority, we're going to adopt it. The question is what exactly are the goals they want to achieve. Do we only want to stimulate large tenants with large average fill days and eliminate small tenants with a large number of 15 to 20 days in full. Give him to the great one, and to the little one who doesn't. What do we need? Do we think this way we're going to eliminate the gray economy? My answer is no. We're going to force in fact a number of tenants whose capacity is filled from 20 to 30 days and they're a large number to log out their capacities and work on black. This will not achieve more, but rather lower revenues for tourist communities. And this to me the tourist communities in Istria gave concrete data and said that at the first moment it seemed to be favourable for the tourist communities. But when reality is seen and they are aware that these revenues from tourist communities will be lower, because they will be checked out. I say that when paying for this flat-rate fee, Croatian specificities are not really respected. Each end of Croatia has its specificities. I am convinced that nothing can be achieved because, as you know, the tourist inspection in those undeclared cannot enter, in fact, the procedure is very, very complicated. At the end, although it is not the subject of this law but is in direct connection with this law and yet I would say more with this government's policy, in this segment of important tourist activity there is also a rule on flat tax payments, in the business of renting apartments of beds and rooms, which has been brought by the resolution minister and which was published in "The People's News" since 8 February. That regulation has already defined the government's policy in relation to tourism activity. What actually happens to that rule that's completely complemented by this law that I believe today we're making a wish. If you wanted to go on a larger collection of taxes in a flat-rate manner, then you had to go on up to 10 beds and 5 accommodation units, and everyone else is obliged to keep business books. What is the role of the agencies in following the adoption of this tax regulation. The agency sends a guest, sets up an account, charges a favor, which is now happening to the agency. Does anyone know how to answer that? What this predicates as if tourism is doing all 12 months, where happiness does not work, it works 3. I can see the time is about to end. Let me get this straight. The responsibility of this government and this parliamentary majority is that it will pass this one rule that is completely inappropriate to Croatian conditions and that will actually be an additional weight on those small tenants, those who barely patch up the end with the end of the day to the day. But I am aware of the fact that it will probably be passed, so in order to somehow try to protect these very small tenants and respect specificities, I have referred Croatia's diversity to the three amendments that would somehow try to fix this very bad bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33712	Thank you. Replica. Honorable representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33713	Thank you very much. And my replica actually refers to the goals. I think that this is another in a series of experiments that will then show itself ineffective and ineffective, in line with that song "Danced Only One Summer". Nor will the number of tenants increase, however, will be reduced because we already have a cancellation and an announcement of the cancellation of small tenants. It won't actually improve the records, and I'm sure that "gray, gray, gray...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33714	Dear Representative Lucin, you have a replica of the presentation of the previous speaker, and he has not talked about what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33715	Yeah, yeah, yeah. If you're okay, if you're... Goals, goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33716	He didn't speak to the distinguished representative of Peru about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33717	Don't worry about it. Look at the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33718	But you...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33719	I'm a good listener, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33720	You're criticizing the government's proposal...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33721	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33722	On the replica of the esteemed representative of Peru. Please focus nicely on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33723	There he is. And I end up with a replica. And since this is going to take just one summer, and since it's not only close to the tourist season, it's close to the election, I'm in doubt whether I should vote for this law or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33724	Thank you. You see, I'm right, there's no answer to the replica. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Unlike my colleagues, I'm not in doubt. I'm not voting for this law definitely. Namely, this law is another one in a series of regulations that the state, or this or that level of government is talking about, I am unable to do the job that is stated by the regulations, and then I will somehow modify the rules to do the job or to do it for myself. The arguments that this would allow the adoption of this law to be better monitored by tourism movements, i.e. tourism consumption repeated several times here but did not make them more credible. Well, there's nothing to be followed by a cobweb. Now we know little about what's happening to us in tourism consumption. After this, we'll know less, no more in any way. So another tax is introduced, because that's tax. Since it does not depend on any categories of earnings, it is a flat-rate tax as well as a subscription to broadcasting, as well as all other flat-rates that actually distance us from the principle of market economy in which we permanently swear. This tax is just as unfair as an unfair and basic tax on the same job, especially as it is flat-rate and does not enter the tax system. So no matter how much a man pays, he can't show it in his tax returns or get a tax on it. Further injustice is to go hand in hand to those who have rooms in places where beds have been filled for more than 40 days, so they will be paid by just the ones who earn less. Of course, under the conditions that they stay honest and stay in the system and accept the logic of renting a bed for 20 days and paying for a cot for 40 days. It's like that logic to me that whoever has it will be given to him, whoever doesn't has it will be taken away from him. Well, there may be some justice here, but that justice is quasi capitalist, like this law quasi capitalist. He rewards the one who has it, takes away the one who does not have it. And by that, it's typical of a good number of legal proposals being served here. There are alternatives. Of course it's hard to track all these 340, 350 thousand beds in Croatia who work on black, who reports, how many are in which bed, but an alternative could be acceptable to give the renters the choice. So, to choose whether to pay a flat-rate fee, if it is worth it, or to exactly pay for traffic in their rental facilities. Of course, it assumes that if someone decides to make an exact monitoring of traffic so that the penalties for such cases, and especially for black renters, should be dragonic, not the ones they're meant to be inside. These fines are less than the penalty for traffic violations in most cases. The question now is who actually pays the tourist community whose basic income, who actually pays that money. Guests are clearly not, because according to the Government's proposal, this tax is not accounted for by the number of guests, but by the number of beds, it is multiplied by some coefficient and so on. So the name of the whole thing has nothing to do with reality anymore. It's not a residence tax. That's the renter's fee, that's his job tax, so that's what you should call it. Oh, no? Why would it be necessary to introduce an alternative and then sharpen the penalties? Because the penalties for working on "black" here don't only touch the residence tax, which is a minor piece of money in all of it, but they also touch the tax. He who did not report a guest stay cheats not only on the residence tax but also on the tax. And the punishment should be adequate for that. Finally, the question arises why this proposal comes ahead of us right now, before the beginning of the season, before the elections. I honestly don't see the reason. I just don't think it's a smart thing to do, and it's not a time for this topic to be solved, but it should be solved in the second half of the year to apply to the next season. As you can see, a tone of debate is present in most, most of the people who reported for debate. I think it would be more correct for the minister to at least agree that this is the first reading of the law, to agree with reality, with reality and with the declared goals written in the explanation and to get the second reading of the law somewhere at the end of the summer, early in the fall and then in peace we decide what will happen in the next tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33726	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on residence tax which is primarily intended to introduce order on the tourist market that tries and wants to stop as much as possible at the end of the black market. I don't think there's anyone between us here who wouldn't want those goals to be achieved, or who wouldn't want us to sort of deal with the black market and the black-market renters. However, I am afraid that this proposed law, which is before us, is that these measures will not actually achieve these basic objectives. For the first time, the introduction of pausals in the payment of a residence tax is unfair, or unfair, for several reasons. In the first row, i.e. in the same category, all places on the coast shall be placed, whether these places, or those municipalities and cities, have a capacity of 43 or more or smaller. I think that's exactly why you'd be in Article 5c. in paragraph 5, the municipal or city councils should be allowed to make a decision to increase the coefficient referred to in paragraph 4 but for this very reason I said that not all places are the same, i.e. they do not have the same average fill-up of the day should also allow the possibility of reducing that coefficient. All zones within one work shall also be placed in the same categories. We know that all zones are equal, that they're not the same filled zone that's near the sea and the area that's what we like to say across the highway. Secondly, in the same category, the big tenants and they put themselves in the same category, or so to call them small tenants. It says that this model of billing and charge of the flat tax will be stimulating and motivating. For whom will he be stimulating and motivated? It will be stimulating and motivating precisely for those large tenants who actually have this going on hand, i.e. this suits them because their filling is significantly higher than those who rent possibly one or two rooms, i.e. two or four beds. On the Tourism Committee, we had opportunities to say that a large number of renters actually cut off the state, don't pay taxes, and then with these money they build apartments and buy expensive cars. There are some of them. But this is exactly the kind of bill that fits. Unfortunately, however, such ones are significantly less than those who, in fact, have an additional source of earnings over the summer months and thus enable them to survive. Let's not close our eyes before the moment we live, let's not close our eyes to the fact that our citizens live hard, that the vast majority of citizens live to say so on the edge of existence and just like this source of income that they earn over the summer where they, like someone already said, are in the debate, squeezed in the basement or in some small room so that they can achieve additional resources that they can survive until next season. For them, such a decision certainly will not please and I think that if they have been reported so far, that this decision will make them go to the gray zone, or to their beds, or that their crafts actually check out, and thus we will introduce an additional mess where there have already been so many order. If we're a social state, and we're saying that we are, after all, that's what the Constitution says, then I think that this particular category of renters, and they seem to me in a pretty large number, we need to take a pretty good look. In addition, there is another category of rental, or if you want a tenant, which I think is actually the largest source of the black market that is not talked about, and these are the large number of apartments and apartments that exist on our own, or in cities by the sea, which are actually not living for nine months or nine months are closed, and live and open the scissors as we like to say in Makarska, they are three months over the summer. These apartments and these apartments are sold outside, meaning in other countries where there are tourist agencies that sell. It's all of course under the code I don't know relatives, friends, etc. and precisely of this kind of tourism the Croatian state has not paid a single kuna. So this is the real problem that we need to deal with and actually find a way and an opportunity to deal with. So this is how the proposed law actually solves almost nothing. And once again, it pleases the big tenants. He neither favors small tenants, means neither stimulating nor motivational, writes in some way forcing them to go to the gray, or gray market, and effects, or the basic goal that he wants to achieve, is not actually going to be achieved. And that is why I agree with all those who have proposed to make it possible, i.e. to make choices. It means that the tenants choose whether they will go on a flat-rate charge or still keep the old way of charging the residence tax, means they choose what is more convenient and more appropriate at the given time. If we want to end the gray market here I absolutely agree with all those who have said that we need to pass the law as quickly as possible, that is, amendments and additions to the State Inspectorate Act. Inspectors, or inspectors, need to be given more authority. The penalties need to be significantly sharpened because then truly individuals will consider whether to say so in this adventure of breaking the law or not, and I mean if, in some way, all of this we talked about today, and the reasons why we were in the SDP club and asked for a delay, that this law does not go according to the urgent procedure, means that this is the first reading so that the government could sort of consider all the problems and consequences that such a hasty decision could result from, so that the law would be done, so that all of these problems we talked about would be avoided, because if we adopt this law without respecting everything we've been saying today, I'm afraid it would be another one of the several laws that this government has proposed has been hastily, unsighty, unsightful consequences that it will result from it, and that it will probably experience a similar fate, as we've seen some day, as we've seen, what happened with a rule on the examination of driving tests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33728	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Minister Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33729	First I have to say something to the distinguished MPs on the left, that the former government was trying to do something like this but never had the strength to make any reform, and then clearly this one. That's the first thing. Because clearly every reform causes both debate and criticism and suggestions on which you are clearly absolutely right. Secondly, I must say that this law is in line with the professional associations of private tenants, i.e. the Professional Association of Private Renters, so I forgot to say the same today. Third, I appreciate every debate you've had, and I've listened well to every debate you've had. And there are amendments that go in that sense that I also see that here is often the problem of small tenants. If that's a problem and most people think it's a problem, then it won't be a problem for the government to accept the amendment of fellow Markov or to do it a little bit and possibly, and we can make it, and it'll only stand there because it's a small tenant. The small tenant is by me the one who rents up, say, 2 rooms and 1 apartment. If there are 3 apartments, gentlemen, I'm sorry, it's not a social category, nor is it that hungry bread. Let's not be hypocritical now. So, I think it's a small tenant that rents 1 or 2 rooms, so it can be a social category and 1 apartment. In that sense, we can say, I accept that. Don't think that I, I've listened to every debate you've had and everything I hold that's good we'll accept, why not? Well, we're not the smartest people in the world. So we can go there when there's a vote, and we'll make it clear about it, but let's say, for such tenants, if they're small tenants and I think they are, then we'll give them a chance if you want to take a shower, if you can't do it at night as you do now. And with that, we solved the question of these little tenants. Here, I mean, so you wouldn't think that we're in a position right now. And I need to speak to my colleagues. I always respect his reasoned debates, but I must tell him that I am the Minister of Tourism. Therefore, it is not true that there is no Minister of Tourism, I am also Minister of Tourism. ... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Lapsus, I know, lapus. I know who Stazic is, who's Korenika. Lapsus. So, the Minister of Tourism, and by chance, here, or not, which you ask yourself, last year was the best tourist year with the biggest income and the largest number of visitors to Croatia so far. And I'm sure this year will be even better than before. I don't want to do the commercial, but just so it's known there is, there is a Minister of Tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33730	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, it is incorrect that the last government has not implemented reforms. That's what you're aware of, because you've been a representative in this House of Commons. Let me just remind you, from reform of the pension system, social care to economic reform. You're probably hurt by the discussions of the SDP people, so you're trying to demean the work of the former government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33732	Thank you. The minister, as I understand it, thought in this section that she had failed to implement the reforms. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33733	The incorrect quote is literally the same. So, no reform has been implemented, but I'm sure that as you say, although you shouldn't exactly interpret the minister's allegations, but that call will be overwhelming. It can be done by an agent, so I also think that Calmeti, Minister Calmeti, is making it more or less weak. There have been several successful reforms, and some continue colleagues, Vice President Milinovic, and your government, so you are interested in supporting this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33734	The word has an esteemed representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33735	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a very intriguing topic that I want to say a few of my opinions and assessments without illusions that I will offer solutions that may cause more serious changes in this area. And then he asks the question, and why? Well, because tourism is such a complex area. We most often swear a strategic, national branch, etc. For a very long time in our premises it works and works really in combination with the socialist and part of the market economy. It is so layered and complex and so sensitive to different influences that it is really hard to find universal solutions that will mean lasting application and stable progress in this sector. We know that we have spent different times in this area where there has been no deliberate action against these people, or those who have engaged in this activity for reasons to live and survive from tourism. In the '70s, it's kind of a turning point that brings some kind of progress to our home, along the coast. Well, same thing at the same time or later, in continental space. These are the reasons why the state has actually been trying to deal with these problems all along. Earlier in socialism, and certainly Croatia, especially during this period of war. Tourism is particularly vulnerable to war and therefore tourism as the most important area has also experienced stagnation in these times of war and war. At that time, it was trying to introduce order in various ways, primarily by repressive measures in this area. Unfortunately, these measures have not yielded results. This is one of the attempts to combine these measures to achieve such a shift in this area. But I'm sorry, I don't think there's any interest in this subject, at least in some, so I apologize. Here, I'm just saying in these times of war and war, there have been attempts in this area, of course there have been most abuses, but there have been attempts to bring order into this area. The results are never satisfactory. On the one hand, the interests of the tenant, on the other hand, of the state, or of the tourist communities, or of the para-state institutions, are in conflict. Here, in this sense, the search for these solutions is trying to find some kind of solution that we hold that might satisfy most of it, stressing most of the renters especially along the coast. But what I'm saying is maybe you should think the same way. Just in preparation for this debate last week I spoke to a lot of people. Maybe you should think about the number of days, 43 or something, maybe. Because one part of the renter, especially on the islands and through this coefficient in the first group of people, is that the fact that at sea does not mean immediately and the rental position from which such income is then collected is possible. And secondly, what has recently been seen are certain trends that on islands and along the coast in smaller settlements and in smaller tenants it happens that actually filling is not as characteristic as before. It has a distinct seasonal impact so it's charging for 2 days, so it's interrupted, so it's two days again, etc., which then affects this fiscal part, of course. I'm talking about the smaller tenants. And in this sense, it may be necessary to try to see if it is possible in the next steps when the Law on Tourist Communities will be prepared and would personally like them to be together so that it can be discussed. To see if, perhaps, at that time, there is a possible combination of more serious and better and charge, as well as control of all the revenues of the tourist communities. I'll put it right away, it's not about this, but I'm setting up that other doubt, which is then with all those who collect from the tourist community, and we know that they don't pay or don't regularly don't pay into the accounts of tourist communities and other purposes. Usually they keep it as their income, and then it's also a bigger problem than these little tenants. Therefore, the total status of the tourist community and the status of income from the tourist community, and then the control of the purpose of these funds should be more serious and fully addressed. At the same time with this I will, of course in a joke, say with this problem there is also a problem of the market or better say filling our capacities part of the tourist inspectors, of course transferred allegorically into jokes, I say for the reasons that all attempts so far and before years to try to solve this problem in another way, the problem obviously has not been solved, or obviously cannot be solved only by those measures that are in the inspection service instrumentation. Here, therefore, by combining measures and taking possible actions in three areas of the laws on the tourist community, on the inspectorate, and on this in this segment can be achieved full measures and I expect that the Government, the Ministry and the Government will then very soon take these other measures that will achieve this desired effect. Surely, the repressive measures themselves will not be able to produce the expected results, but these repressive measures should, in my opinion, remain together at the country level, not lower them to a lower level, because the local community itself will not be able to respond to these measures. I therefore accept this proposal as a temporary, i.e. I accept it as a solution for most owners and leave the possibility of considering the number of days of filling possibly or possibly of that coefficient in that group so that the middle part of the Adriatic and the slightly southern part of the Adriatic Sea in the island part of the island can possibly combine, of course, with regard to this interior I speak more about that tourism along the coast. And that is why I believe that these measures because every action has a reaction to this, as soon as any offer is measured they are naturally welcomed immediately with all arguments against, of course but I would not settle in favour of and against but try to find an optimal solution which will then answer this question that I repeat to all the years we have not reached a satisfactory solution, so we must go towards finding optimal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33736	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr. Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33737	My dear colleague, I fully agree with your debate, but what she's saying. It advises that, with this law, which should be further developed, at least two laws need to be amended, so that it would be good for all of us to come here to the Parliament, to try to find all together as you say an optimal solution. That is why I consider this debate as a suggestion from the Minister that if he will not withdraw but that as the Government's position he suggests that this be the first reading of the Law in order to correct the illogicalities that I have warned you of, that the Law is not incompatible with itself and so that we may be prepared, the good colleague of the Prtnječa speaks, changes two other legislative proposals so that we can consider this matter in full, let's see what the inspectors would do then, let's see that income of few tourist communities. Yes, we have already heard a lot of arguments about this means we have a full debate and we have to come up with quality solutions because they are in everyone's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33738	Thank you. Here's your answer, Mr. Shime Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33739	You, of course, have used this exposure to reach your conclusions, which is your right of course, we are all here to express our own, as I will not judge yours as well as any opinion, we all express our opinion in our own knowledge and experience. What I know from this, for years I've been dealing with this problem, I've tried to bring of course to such a short discussion because it's very difficult to achieve my opinion that a synergy effect within that different measure could have been achieved but then doubt why we've never done it before. Therefore, and the conclusion that such a solution that will try to find a solution to most problems is an acceptable solution, better to do anything than nothing, and I hold that such an attempt will bring the other solutions that are necessary in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33740	Thank you. Replica Mr. Jaksa Marasovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33741	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Squirt's right, I'd be replicating anyone who comes from the other side, so he's just here by accident. But I have to say this, it's not a problem in Croatia's black market or the grey market it's too small, it's also known that those who follow us from outside, but this law, which is proposed as one of the mechanisms to prevent as much as I don't think it's hit and that it's definitely something that came this fast for me and that the government should pull back and find some other ways to solve this problem in tourism because this is about the principle of "Alana Ford", take the poor and give the rich. Super Hick has now tried to define what a small tenant is. This is probably what Mr. Minister said, but be careful how many villages you have in the Adriatic or other parts of Croatia are about 40% of the population of Croatia living in settlements between 1 and 2 thousand inhabitants. And now imagine these villages that also rent people some rooms, some apartments, have no sewers or water at all times, their electricity is problematic, the state has invested a little there, and that's one of the elements that talks about that poor thing to say, in that second category of non-rich renter, and I don't think this law has thought about it at all. That's bad, and I suggest that this be taken as a first reading and that we think again about this problem and try to suggest a better way to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33742	Thank you. The answer of Mr. Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33743	So here's at least two answers to this replica, first of all, that this law and the proposal is expedient. So I said in a comment that these problems are layered and old at least as much as we do tourism in our spaces, and we remember the times when these little tenants are now being paid, and I also support and say that it's being considered and that I think about finding that solution for the cooks, the rich when they're persecuted in different ways, we remember those times and not so long ago. And now the attempt to search and find any solution is met on the knife because it is always hasty but whenever it is brought it will always be hasty, I have said and I repeat that this law treats only an attempt to reduce administration in this area, and it also remains a layered problem which is with hotels and all the others that charge the residence and then retain it as their income... the largest part of the year. And what is also with hotels that don't pay any land fees where they carry out their activities, etc., but since this topic cannot allow such a broad discussion then I tried as quickly as possible to present this problem in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33744	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Ruža Tomasic's turn. She's gone. Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33745	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. About 50,000 private tenants with 340 thousand beds have been registered in the Republic of Croatia. These 340 beds account for about 40% of the total accommodation capacity in Croatian tourism, but those 40% of the capacity only generates about 24% of the tourist traffic. However, it is concluded, therefore, that there is a significant number of citizens who do not report their guests, but therefore rents rooms and apartments on black. The tourist communities themselves estimate that up to 30% in some environments. And for tourist communities, tourist tax is far the most important and the most issued income. And they don't report guests, so they lose their incomes, and they're also not making it difficult for them to keep track of tourism traffic, which is their obligation. Quality inspection supervision in which about 300 competent inspectors would control nearly 50,000 objects for physical reasons simply is not possible. Therefore, a large number of these facilities are not registered and, according to estimates, the loss of the state as a whole including taxes and residence taxes reaches up to 100 million kuna. The fact that out of 48 thousand or 50 registered tenants in 2003, something about 30,000 paid and reported taxes and taxes, therefore over one third were not recorded and paid nothing. I come from Karlovac County which is a little specific, or something else compared to most of the discussions and information we have heard here, so this sea called tourism is one thing, and this continental tourism still has a series of its specificities. But what's specific about my county is that it's from 13 continental counties, so other than the city of Zagreb, the county with the highest number of nights and in the area of Karlovo County is realized every fourth night on the continent I say outside of Zagreb. The average fill-up is 51.61 days, and in private accommodation about 45 days a year. But what is specific is the average length of stay of only 1.67 days. It is specific that our tourism is to be achieved most in the municipality of Rakovica 64% of all overnight stays in the carlovac County, but which are far-fetched and tied above all to Plitvice and then followed by Ogulin, who has Bjellolasica, and there are also specific guests who stay, so both in the middles of the year. As regards this concrete proposal of the Law, and regarding the level of the residence tax, it should be said that it is an area of special state concern and mountainous area which will result in the tourism community's revenues being achieved in a slightly lower amount than it has been so far. But by talking to tourism workers, they support this Law and this approach because, in their opinion, it will make some progress primarily for control, due to additional registration, and they think it will also be motivated by small tenants. In the very proposal of the Law, I think you would further in Article 5c. It was necessary to clarify the number of days on which the residence tax is calculated and to say, somewhere, whether it is 40 days or maybe to appreciate a specific occasion and to say that it is even less days. But I also think it is important to warn of the applicable law, and where this particular proposal is not mentioned by those owners of the weekend houses, because I will remind, therefore, in the existing law in Article 2 and Article 12, it is said that home owners must report their stay and pay a flat rate for a period of 15. 6 to 15.9. This provision is applicable to tourism on the Croatian Adriatic. However, this provision does not have to be applicable to continental tourism, for the reasons that the owners of the cottage simply say so to me of 15. 6 to 15.9. do not stay in our cottages, but stay the whole rest of the year, so 300 days stay, but say these 90 days do not stay in the summer. And I think that should be further regulated in some changes and additions to balance that out. I'll just remind you that in the long-term area of the Karlovac Rivers, there are over 300 cottages on the River Network and in most of this way regulates the issue of payment of the residence tax. It has already been mentioned here that the Law will be enforceable or better enforceable if it is parallel or subsequently, but very quickly bring about changes to the State Inspectorate Act. So, not only are those who are correct, who have reported their capacities, but I think that first of all they need to be able to control, but now the question is how do we solve it by teasing or not teasing the right of private property, so they can control those who did not report it, but they avoid paying taxes, and I think it would be necessary to significantly tighten the penalties for breaking the law. And to conclude with these amendments and the willingness to accept certain corrections that the minister said in his presentation, I believe that this proposal can be supported by amendments to the law, because regardless of the criticisms that are more or less acceptable and standing, I think we can expect a better payment of the residence tax, I think it will still reduce the stay to black, improve the supervision of the tenants and that they will move from the sphere of business to the black in the field of legal business and thus reduce the number of undeclared guests. This is why you support this amendment and the addition of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33746	Thank you. We have one correction Mr. Zdenko Antesic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33747	He made two mistakes in his very quality and above all professionally subdued presentation, so I would like to point them out. And that's that this kind of taxation will be stimulating for small tenants. It's just the other way around. So she's not stimulating for so-called. small tenants who are under 42 days old. And the second mistake, the second mistake, is that he stated that the loose people would rush to sign up for a flat tax system, I mean the ones that aren't in any system at all, that's completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33748	Opinions like many other opinions. So it's similar. It's hard. Let's be more patient with this kind of thing. We're moving on to a five-minute debate on behalf of the clubs. The first is Mr. Ante Markov's representative on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33749	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! After this above all open to the moments of different and conflicting debates, what is certainly all will conclude that this is a very serious topic, that this topic has far come out of its context and framework and that the debate has often been, in order and the debate was one broad debate on the situation not only in private accommodation but in tourism at all. What we all agree with is the goal and the goal is to organise private accommodation, to register and be equally legally set up for all those participating in this very important and very large segment of accommodation in the Republic of Croatia as regards tourism. The aim of strengthening supervision of better and more efficient payment of the tourist tax and thus strengthening the resources of tourist communities and those who take care of their region, bringing new tourists and the way the tourist accommodation is organised is also the goal with which we all agree. The way in which this goal is to be realized through this current pausal measure brings its good and its bad. The aim of our discussion, our proposals, is to strengthen and strengthen the overall level playing field for the new effects of the paushals on everyone. To achieve this, it is evident that so-called. Little tenants aren't privileged with this cobbler. That they, especially they come in a very sensitive area when the fact that they are not professionals, that there is no support behind them in terms of the brokers of tourist agencies, when the fact that their capacities are small and very often are their residences. So they're their apartments and their rooms and they're doing their financial situation in the summer they're dealing with themselves in other ways. If we respect all of this together, then we have to note that the minister also agreed with such a single fact, then we have to try to define things the following way, to say what it means by so-called. "small" so they don't hurt anyone, small by number of accommodation facilities and small in terms of not having a serious organisation. Who are they? For us, it is about those who have up to 6 beds, who have one apartment not larger than 6 beds and the structure for which the tourist board of the tourist community will determine that it is under 40 days but then let it have the right alternative. Let him decide whether he will take a break as a new model or stay with the method of calculating and charging the residence tax on the basis of the number of nights achieved. In addition to allowing everyone to obtain a lease permit and that the prerequisite for this is not a building and useful permit but a minimum technical requirement, we will then strengthen the position to register a larger number of people. Another measure, to urgently amend the State Inspectorate Act, to extend the powers of state inspectors and to regulate the overall structure of the tourism state inspection. In this way, I believe that a goal can be achieved which I am sure has unanimous and unambiguous support in this House. Therefore, I believe that opening an alternative will not harm the applicant in terms of its objective. Let an alternative be opened who wants to be in the regime by the number of nights and who wants to be in the pausal regime. The big ones, you say, are privileged. Therefore, the alternative will make them very clear. They'll take what's better, but let's not let these smaller tenants who can't be in the same position as those big ones get hurt, and instead of creating a new order, we don't create a new dissension. Therefore, I believe that there is room for the HSS Club to be seriously and responsibly agreed and that if we bring these amendments and complements to be really those changes and supplements that will create new and better quality relations not only in the charging sector of residence tax but also from the aspect of the offer and quality that our tourists will be able to feel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33750	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the Gallery in our House are students and teachers of the Lower Miholjec High School, so let's welcome them. Thank you. [[Applause]] It is now five minutes on behalf of the SDP Club, Mr Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33751	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, esteemed ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Here, in a very high-quality debate, we heard that this proposed legislative solution is not good and it will not meet the two basic objectives pursued by such a legislative proposal, which is to first reduce the black market in this domain of business, and secondly to raise more money in the system of tourist communities. In fact, the problem of the black market that I once again say is not a problem for small tenants who sometimes skip two, three days and apply or log out is already a problem for large apartment settlements that are completely beyond any control system and there needs to be a solution for this black market to be solved. Secondly, this legal solution, although we can already see that in Mr. Minister's statements, a softer approach is also observed, certainly detiming small tenants, so those who rent less than 42 days and are actually punishing them in some way, and it stimulates those conditionally large who have a capacity of more than 42 days. This opposes our view that they must participate in the public needs of those who earn more, so on the other hand we feel that we should leave the possibility of a transitional solution to be so-called. small tenants shall determine whether they prefer the flat-rate amount or the actual amount of payment of the residence tax according to the number of nights achieved. This proposal should also bring together proposals for other laws and regulations that primarily regulate the issue of tourism control because, in fact, there is a major problem with the black market. And finally, I think we should consider other non-repressive but perhaps stimulating measures, which is, therefore, the introduction of any vignette. It is a stimulant with which those who apply would get a discount when paying for city public transport, discount in some restaurants, discount on other utility services, parking and the like. And that's something that knows the developed tourism market, and I think in that direction we should also supplement this proposal. Now, with these remarks, I think it would be special, it's special, it's a special observation to actually timing, these rules are usually never passed before the tourist season itself. Because we know for ourselves that in 20 days Easter when it starts already down on the shore a serious tourist season and it should, for example, be missed in some first reading and consider possibly its effects and introduce its real, real effect for the next tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33752	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33753	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, counterpart Antesic said at the very beginning of his presentation that the debate showed that this was not a good solution, and that is simply not true. The debate has shown a different range of thinking, the opposition has its views, the position has its views, but it simply cannot be concluded that this is not a good solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33754	It is the conclusion of Mr Antesic, not the Parliament, so he has the right to such a conclusion. We're moving on. On behalf of the HSP Club Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33755	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. We at the HSP Club are glad that our views on this issue are more or less supported by all clubs. But on the other hand, it is a sad fact that we all know about this problem for 10 years and that only today in the Croatian Parliament in this plenary session have we established a factual state. And the fact is that this bill will not achieve the effects that are planned, means in the fight against the gray economy, the work on black or illegal renting of rooms and apartments. The sad fact is that she knew it and the former government didn't do anything during that period, here Shime was also a minister, the state inspectorate provided it all to him, but they didn't take any measures. Therefore, the only good thing that we have established is the uncontested fact, and the fact that this Law will not achieve itself significantly in the fight against the gray economy, working on the black and not this Law, will not be an incentive for those who are engaged in renting rooms and apartments illegally, means that they are not registered that they will now move on to this system, that they will register. However, these solutions that are now contained here will enable and already this happens that many who have been registered will be unregistered. As a result, we said that, in parallel with this Law, the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on State Inspectorate should have gone even to the Income Tax Act. This would allow the creation of an effective system, and that means no longer burdening those who are registered, where inspectors go, because others cannot be entered by inspectors because of the fact that they are unregistered and without a judge's order for violations. That's a fact! And even when it enters there are no measures to take, which will be primarily preventive and will prevent further activities of renting rooms and apartments which are not registered, in these situations one of the measures can be envisaged, the ban on carrying out and the activity for a month, two days, because only such measures, is a sad fact but we cannot fight without effective measures that we give to inspectors in this large and huge area, means the field of gray economy and everything else. We hope that now both other topics and in the areas of working on black, in the area of violations of workers' rights by employers, the same government will move in this way, but not in this way so bad. Therefore, we in the HSP can accept and we will vote for this law on two conditions. The first essential condition is that the alternative, meaning to those below 25, below 40 days of filling, means to small tenants, to decide whether to go to a shower or to go to a residence tax, means that this is the first condition. The second condition is that at the next session, we get the Act amending and supplementing the State Inspectorate Act, where powers will be given to economic inspectors that they will have to go effectively to fight those who are engaged in illegal rentals where there is a gray economy or work on black. Because we do not achieve anything about these things, especially what is said in the goals that are meant to be achieved by this Law. Because this way that's now dapaca, we're going to encourage those who are registered to go the same way into this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33756	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33757	Thank you very much. It is incorrect to quote counterpart Kovacevic that everyone supports the HSP proposal, at least as far as the SDP is concerned, that the SDP does not support the HSP proposal, but, in fact, it seems to me that this is where the HSP joined the SDP proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33758	Thank you very much. And five more minutes on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33759	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. Allow me once again, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, to highlight the necessity of adopting such a law in order to firstly introduce order in this part of the economic action, but also to help all those involved in this activity to calculate in one easier way what is their obligation and to make it more transparent in a more transparent way, without a lot of bureaucratic procedure come to a better result. In particular, in the management of the flat-rate paushals, it is intended to simplify all procedures for the registration, check-out of tourists, payment of the residence tax and the billing and payment of taxes to private owners. Thus, inspection is directed where it should be directed. I also think it is also important to point out once again that this proposal included representatives of private tenants who, with their suggestions, came together with government representatives and the best solution at the moment and their views were very important in drawing up this legislative proposal. Of course, this debate has shown that certain modifications that the minister himself has announced here need to be made. And in this sense, we absolutely support it, above all, the modification of the extension of classification, which means from three to six, so that the differences that really exist in cities where economic activity is highly developed and therefore private renting, so that these differences that exist between the objects that are close to the sea, which, of course, are easier to fill in and those in remote urban areas, so that these differences are respected and that they are precisely based on these differences and different amounts paid. So, in this sense, Mr. Minister, you have the support of the HDZ Club, and you really need to think again about this modification that is related to the reduction of the number of days by which the fill-up counts. And here I am, suggesting that there is a club that may have been reconsidered once again, but in any case it is a quality proposal that will try to introduce order into this area that has been quite neglected so far, we must say that there has really been no improvement in the past decades in this area, and I think that this is one first step that will need to be followed by some other steps and perhaps some changes and some other laws to introduce order in this area of economic activity as well. So, the HDZ Club supports this bill and I believe that in the very modifications announced by the Minister himself, we will be satisfied, but also private renters and all those involved in this economic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33760	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mrs. Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33761	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Matusic, where he says by introducing this Law that there will finally be order among the tenants. Well, I think it's actually going to be with this law, that it's going to be punished by honest and valuable people, and it's going to reward the malfeasance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33762	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33763	You see, we have 50,000 registered tenants tied to this replica now. Of those 50,000 registered taxpayers, $29,000 was paid. So 20 grand didn't pay the tax. Well, it's facts, it's numbers. It certainly has something to do with counterpart Antesic. Out of 50 grand, 29 paid taxes, 20 grand didn't pay taxes. Now if you want us to stay where we are and not move anything, then you can talk about it. But then we need to know that we want to still have 30% of the black business in renting rooms. If that's what we're for, then so am I. But I don't think that's good. There have been a lot of good discussions today, which is just, in my humble opinion, saying that the subject has been affected and that this is something to discuss and that this is something where we have to take a step forward. I am convinced that such a single bill is one step ahead and that everything that will be achieved with it will be achieved. I said that I and I listened to all the debates, and I thank you for those discussions. That regardless of who they came from, if they are justified and good that we will respect them and that through the amendments that there are ten or more, I don't know how many of them there are, that we will respect these things, and all in order to get one, one good proposal, a good bill that we want to make better for the state, but to be better for private renters. We'll take care of small tenants, we'll take care of the categories, and if we need to comply with the amendments that are, we'll make some adjustments in that sense. I thank everyone again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33764	Thank you very much, Minister. This debate is closed. They'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33765	Next. Final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on residence tax. The amendments were submitted by the Government. First we need to vote after the deadline, first we need to vote whether we will discuss and vote on the amendment to the government that submitted after the deadline. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find that with 69 votes in favour, six abstentions and 12 against were accepted to debate and vote on this amendment to the government. I ask the Secretary of State, Mr. Micic, to explain the amendment's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33766	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, the amendment of the Government in Article 1 proposed a new Article 5c in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be added to the new paragraph 1: Exceptional provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, which shall, in accordance with the resolution of the authorisation to provide catering services to a citizen in the household, rent two rooms or one apartment up to a maximum of 4 beds, in municipalities and settlements in which the average annual capacity capacity of private accommodation according to the data of the tourist community is less than 40 days, the tourist tax may be charged,... the services provided for overnight stay or stay tax may be paid at a flat-rate rate. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33767	You still have the same thing below. Articles 2 and 3 so far, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33768	The current paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 shall be items 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 and the current paragraph 5 shall be amended and shall read as follows: The coefficients of the class of tourist resort in which the services referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article are determined in height 1 for Class A, height 0,85 for Class B, height 0,70 for Class C and height 0,50 for Class D and other non-classified places.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33769	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find that this amendment of the government has been accepted by 89 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 7 against. Now, please, Secretary of State, we have a plate of amendments. Do you have it? Amendment 1. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33770	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33771	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. The second Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33772	It's unacceptable. For the purposes of the amendment of the Government to which paragraph 4 is amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33773	The Tourism Committee. There's no one here. We have to vote. Please engage. You can vote. Score. The amendment did not receive the required majority, as it was voted by 21 MPs, 5 abstentions, 69 against. 3rd Representative of Antun Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33774	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33775	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Four HSS and SDP representatives clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33776	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33777	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Fifth amendment of MP Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33778	It's unacceptable. Respecting the selective approach for private owners, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted an amendment to the newly proposed Article 5c in a way that adds a new paragraph 2 to the latter, which would allow the choice between the flat-rate payment of the residence tax and the payment of the residence tax per night for private tenants with capacity up to four beds and two rooms, one apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33779	A colleague of Kurt's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33780	Mr. President, this is ridiculous. Well, it doesn't matter if she has four beds or 20 beds. It can also be filled for twenty days or forty days. Well, I mean, this is really funny that this amendment isn't accepted, I think. The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33781	Please vote. Come on, come on, come on, come on, You can vote. The result? The amendment didn't get the required majority, 22 votes for, 10 abstentions, 64 against. The sixth amendment of Agent Anthony Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33782	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33783	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. The 7th Amanda, also represented by Antun Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33784	It's partially accepted. The government of the Republic of Croatia added the words "d" in its amendment: "and other unclassified places".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33785	Hey, buddy Peru, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33786	Well, I'm satisfied. In reality, it's actually accepted. I give up. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33787	In that part that hasn't been accepted, the amendment has been withdrawn. And in the part where he was withdrawn, it becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment to the 8th Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33788	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33789	It becomes an integral part of the law. The Ninth Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33790	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33791	It becomes an integral part of the law. And the 10th Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33792	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33793	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 89 votes for, 5 abstentions and 5 against the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on residence tax in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33794	I propose to the representatives and MPs that after we have agreed to join these four agenda points to save time and in the opening debates and special debates, and in accordance with our efforts to make up for the day yesterday, I suggest that we discuss these points of the agenda without delay, so we hope and thus get something in time. If there's no opposition, I think it's accepted. And we move on to these four points of the agenda: 8. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Areas of Specific State Care, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 261; proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Also: 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fields of Special State Care, with the Final Proposal of the Law - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 250; Then at: 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 262; proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And also under the same law proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP: 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas with the Final Proposal of the Law – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 249; You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional/regional/ Self-Government and the Committee on Immigration. You received the reports at the session. Does the Prime Minister's representative, Mr. Bozidar Kalmeta, want to take his word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33795	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So about all these four points that two suggest government, and two suggests clubs here I'll, I'll try to unite about one and the other to say a few words. I think that thing's pretty clear. Namely, the Law on Areas of Special State Care, the Law on Areas of Special State Care, was adopted in 1996 and has been amended six times so far. The amendments and amendments to the law in 2000 set out a provision whereby the tax revenue from the income tax and profit tax effected in the field of units of local self-government which, under the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, belongs to the State budget, to units of local self-government. Or, more simply, the State shall waive those revenues and taxes mentioned in those areas for the benefit of those areas. The amendments to the Law on mountainous mountainous areas in 2003 are such a possibility, we will not be privileged, also established for mountainous and mountainous areas, by binding its time limits for these areas and by amending and supplementing the law on areas of special state concern. These measures sought to strengthen the fiscal capacity of local self-pourage units in areas of special state concern and mountain-mounted areas and to make it possible for them to have their own resources, to decide on the spending of these funds and to clearly address a number of, numerous issues in these areas. As the deadline for the application of these measures expires on 29 July of this year, the Government is proposing that the Law amending the law on areas of special state concern and the Proposal for a Law amending the laws on mountainous and mountainous areas should be adopted, to do so, to do so when it comes to these two laws. So it's not rock July anymore, it's that he's up until further notice. Here's the proposal the government is proposing. That's what we're explaining. We note that these areas are still not in question when it comes to their standard, when it comes to their incomes, they are still not shoulder to shoulder to say so in relation to other areas and that this additional financial injection is still needed in these areas in order to maintain the standard of living on these areas. Here, Mr. Vice President, I'd like so much for an introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33796	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club on these two bill proposals, the gentleman will speak, Mr. MP and Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33797	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Which is why it is necessary to accept these amendments and to supplement the laws of one and the other is, in fact, far more important to discuss than the fact that we will accept these amendments and the additions of the law. We from the SDP Club would like to remind ourselves that, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, the concept of regional development in both the country and the economic and any other aspects is completely disregarded in a very, very bad way. And in such a situation, whether we want to or not, we have a negative trend that manifests itself manifestly and that gives rise to much more consequences in which to take account. What's that, that trend? To increase and number, the number of our counties lags behind the development of the centre of the country, or the capital of Zagreb, and that in such a situation is such a deficit in development a dozen times according to some estimates about 13 times. For example, Slavonska Baranja, Vukovar Srijemska and Personal Senjska County lag behind the capital. And that's the manifest consequence. But a far greater problem is something else, that a whole range of economic resources such as natural wealth are land, forest, then economic resources of existing commercial societies’ capacities and so on and human resources are not put into operation to ensure growth and development, and that the comparative advantages of these areas are actually used as much as possible in the interests of development above all these areas and then both the total countries and the state and social communities. You should also say and draw attention to the fact that the city of Zagreb is in a more favourable position than the other county, should not and should not blame the city of Zagreb that is a matter that must be resolved by the state, leading the regional concept of development and which must reach and open space to actually put these advantages into effect. And to enable that development. Unfortunately, in this respect, some of the steps that we started here could have put them at risk, such as the expiry of this law that only partially opens it. Why this is a duty to the state, not only for economic social reasons and cultural development but also for the very facts of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which clearly states in Article 137, the state is obliged to assist financially weaker units of local self-government in accordance with the law. Dear colleagues and colleagues all of you know that more than a third of local self-government units are practically unable to earn the revenue needed to meet their legal obligations in achieving the functioning of the content and competence of local self-government units. Especially hard to hit areas called mountainous mountainous, islandous areas, and so on and so forth. For some of them, we have passed special laws such as the Law on Islands, such as the Law on mountainous mountainous areas and, collectively, the Law on areas of special state care, which has established three very or four very important goals to be achieved. One is of course that the consequences of war are removed and faster enables faster return of the population, the other is quite certain to try to improve the demographic picture of the population in the area, of course economic progress, and what we are not talking about or not enough about, and that is the even development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia. Starting from this, it is quite clear and quite understandable that citizens and representatives were elected in units of local self-government, when they saw that the law practically expires on 29 July, the law on mountainous mountainous areas and the Law on areas of special state care which thus opens up the possibility of ending funding on this basis. Simply launched the initiative and a large number of our local self-government units from, say, the town of Novi Vinodolski, Vrbovski, I don't know Chabra, Delnica and so on, which in the field of Dalmatian Zagora or Gorski Kotar and so on, have actually asked very, very serious questions what to do. In accordance with this, one of our counties in Primorje goranska County organized a special round table on which this issue was debated. And why the debate was actually being held, from a principled point of view and from a constitutional legal point of view, I said among other things and just before, and from a concrete point of view let us remind that the law on mountainous mountainous areas and regarding the Law on areas of special state care, which, on the basis of Articles 45 and 7c. In practice, it enables payment or implementation of the Law on mountainous mountainous areas. Several important advantages have been provided to strengthen regional development and the development of areas in a difficult situation. And because of the demographic situation, and because of the war on affected areas such as peripheral areas, especially Lika, the Dalmatian Zagora and so on. And, of course, because of regional under-investment and development. First, it is the fact that tax revenues from income tax and profit tax in areas of mountainous mountainous areas are practically transferred to local self-government units, with 90% of that tax belonging to the local self-government unit and 10% to the county. So now you will see something that is an amazing fact, from all the benefits that I will be counting, you should see and above all these tax returns moving between 20% and 40% of the income of these local self-government units from these titles which are practically from these revenues carried out by very important activities and which invest in communal infrastructure, the development of entrepreneurship zones into lending, programmes in culture, sport, preschool education, social programs, fire and other programmes that will practically ensure the growth and development of and local self-government units and simultaneously create the conditions necessary for the life of the average, respectively, any citizen who should live there. And of course that motivates the population the first to live there, and the second population that could return and continue first and foremost what was being exiled or displaced to return. And, of course, others also come to invest because of these following measures that also need to be taken into account. And these are, for example, tax reliefs prescribed by law because it is possible for any citizen who works to get a relief tax relief of 2500 kuna per month. And it has the right after tax returns get paid as tax returns. Furthermore, there is an advantage in the exercise of the right to rent agricultural, forest land, the right to lease, or the privilege of organising hunting grounds and the exercise of fishing rights, and so on and so on. Of course, under the same conditions as those of third parties appearing in this area. There is, of course, compensation for local self-government units from the title of oil and gas use, which is 5%. And for other pensions of 5% raw materials, the achievement of their sale in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which also belongs to the county by principle and the unit of local self-government in 100% of the principle of sharing 50-50%. When all of this is taken together then it is seen that it is very serious and very high-quality incomes on the one hand and on the other hand it is seen that it should actually be very, very serious in the Republic of Croatia to consider one important fact. Is it really necessary for income tax and income tax to remain the income of the state in the future? For one simple reason, because these are insignificant percentages actually in the income of the state budget, let's say, income tax is only about 3%, and at the same time it's a significant source of income. For local self-government and county units, on the one hand and on the other hand, this is a significant means of achieving a balance related to regional development, in particular, when it comes to income tax, given that we would pay the tax to local self-government units according to the residence of citizens, i.e. employees. If such situations are considered then this fact also needs to be discussed very seriously and taken into account, and instead of passing a law that needs to be stopped, the application of this law which allowed some units of local self-government, in particular in mountainous and mountainous areas, we would actually consider ensuring this for the entire Republic of Croatia, and for these areas see an additional part of the subsidisation in how to provide and enable such investments to be increased. Of course, in all, when you take from the municipality to the municipality, from town to town, then you will come that it is somewhere on average about 27% of the income of those units of local self-government or almost 1/3 that comes from this title. It's perfectly clear and acceptable and there's no saying that in a situation like this we couldn't possibly support this. I think all clubs should support it, in this situation, for us from the SDP's Club of Representatives, it's even less important which bill will be adopted. But yet the truth works, we would like to say that the idea and the proposal to amend and supplement these two laws came from the SDP Club, I don't know, February 11th, as officially received proposals, that the Government came on February 22nd, etc., etc. And what exactly happened in this particular situation? I think it happened that the opposition parties, which is fine, which is quite all right, faster, better quality, and if you want, responded more readily to incentives by citizens, by units of local self-government, because in some ways, it is their duty to put pressure on the government to actually vote certain rights towards the units of local self-government and citizens, and ultimately to pressure the government to introduce such a balanced policy. As a consequence, of course, the government actually prepared draft laws on 22 February, referred them to a parliamentary procedure, based practically on ideas which, or a proposal for a solution given by the SDP's Club of Representatives. We don't mind that. We're saying this for a reason why we're actually happy and proud. Because if they accept each time, this time our idea, the second time another club idea, including the ruling government coalition clubs, if it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, if it is in the interest of the development of the Republic of Croatia and the development of our state and social community, then we will be happy and satisfied. And I also think that this will create a new page of strengthening, in fact, further strengthening of the parliamentary system in the Republic of Croatia and where it will be seen that often they can, even as an idea, pass the bill proposals that actually have been offered by representatives clubs and not by government every time. And in this respect, it is quite clear that we are expressing one satisfaction. The third thing we would like to say about this fact is the fact that we in the Club are evaluating, we have a high degree of understanding towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding its great efforts to achieve the concept of joining the Croatian Union and NATO and the Atlantic, other Atlantic associations and we know that they are investing a lot of time, effort and effort in this regard and we support them. But we believe that this time, the time available should be well discussed because the issue of development policy, economic policy, the issue of social, cultural policy or the overall speaking internal policy of the Republic of Croatia must not be ignored. The more quality the Republic of Croatia will meet its internal policy, which will allow for greater standards, better and more advanced economic development and prosperity of all our citizens and, of course, legal entities in the Republic of Croatia, believe, of course, in the atmosphere of the rule of law, the democratic atmosphere, etc., believe that this will bring us closer to European associations and the European Union and NATO Pact and more needed to them than we often see in this respect. So I'd like to conclude on behalf of our counseling club. At this point, we are still staying with our proposals but we have no objection, depending on how the debate will develop, that perhaps in order to facilitate the procedure, we may also consider the possibility of withdrawing our laws by the end of the debate. Certainly if we assess after the debate by clubs that the clubs are ready to support the solution that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken from the SDP's Club of Representatives and has proposed to adopt two bill proposals, that these issues be settled on the well-being of our citizens and units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia and of course our counties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33798	Thank you very much. I thank both of you for saving us a very, very, very long time with their brief and concise opening statements. And now the correction of the quote by Mr. Frano Matušić, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I have to correct the absolutely incorrect allegations of my colleague Arlovic, that his club reacted more quickly and quality in preparing this proposal. I should remind my colleague that by adopting the Law on Budget Implementation, the Croatian Government has just predicted and made it clear that it is very clear in this law that the Government is disowning budget revenue from this purpose. Therefore, at that time we made it clear that these funds would not be raised, that they would not go into the state budget but would remain available to municipalities, cities and counties. That was quite clear. And as a result, of course, now the amendment to this law, the change of that date when that barrier, the time limit, ceases to apply. Therefore, in the very adoption of the budget, it was very clear, clearly given to all cities and municipalities that the state would not ask them for it but that it would continue to make these funds available to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33800	He's not applying. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. [[Intruder: Turn off the microphone. It's automatically shutting down.]] On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33801	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President and the esteemed Mr. Secretary, the honourable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Here is the Government, in its argument on this first opening page, states that the Law on the mountainous and mountainous area addresses the incentive measures for demographic restoration, economic work and sustainable development, and the creation of a prerequisite for resolving social opportunities and raising the living standard of residents in the area", a finished quote. And to be honest, I don't know any law that treats local self-government by not counting on the one that we're also going to talk about, and that's the one about special state care that in an effective, concrete, real way helps so-called. mountain and mountain areas rather than what the Law on mountain and mountain areas does. The truth is, that law applies only for two years. Someone will say too little to see all the effects of that law. However, these parts, these mountainous and mountainous regions of the Republic of Croatia, after the adoption of the law, simply rested. I will not say that they are reborn, but it is right to say that the municipalities and cities to which the law applies are relieved. Like what? It seems in practice I'll try to make an example of the city of Buzet, from which I come. In 1994, which was the time of war, the city’s budget amounted to only 6 million kuna. It was a difficult time, half the economy went bankrupt. We had this accident that about 250 Slovenian craftsmen left Buzet in 91, returned to Slovenia, leaving behind hundreds of workers. About 300 to 400 people searched for their bread in Italy, those others were on the front, etc. But the trends in the last ten years have been reversed so that today the city is 82 unemployed, about 2.5%. Probably no city in the Republic of Croatia has such unemployment rate and a day around 200 workers in Buzet come to work from Pazin, Rijeka and even the Slovenian Koper or Copra, because otherwise life would have stopped. So the real effect of decentralisation can be seen in the environments that have solved the main economic problems. And go back to that town again. The budget of that city in 2001 was 16.7 million kuna. In 2002, with 3 million kuna loans, it was 24 million kuna. 2003. Twenty-seven million kunas, and that's where the mountain-mounted effect was felt for only six months. 2004. 35.5 million kuna, and for this year the budget of cca 40 million kuna was planned. So thanks to this law, the budget in the city of Buzet has been increased by 24 million kuna in four years, in which only the effect of the mountain-mounted area is between 13 million and 14 million kuna per year. What is certainly interesting is that in 2001 investments could be allocated 2.6 million kuna, and this year 19 million kunas can be allocated to the city for investment. That's why the interest with the party lists in that town is what it is. For one such environment, it's 19 million kunas. It's huge money. Money that can really solve all vital communal problems, but also social problems. It won't be like that, for example. Every pensioner at the end of the year to pay for 400,00 kuna Christmas, give citizens free textbooks, increase amounts for newborn children, because the problem is huge. 90 people die annually, 61 were born and finally needed to put in a 2006 reserve if a new health reform is introduced. But let me get back to the law. This law has social, but as Mr Arlovic said, it also has its own economic dimension, and on the other hand it deprives the state of only 99.3 million kuna or 14 million euros, which is indeed one modest amount for the state, regardless of whether any amount that goes down to the local level should be ignored. According to this law, one municipality of Motovun or Gračišje gets all 1 million kunas as a hill-mounted area. For the state, probably that million kuna doesn't mean much, but these environments are one chapel that these people who live there mean a lot to them. The law, for example, leaves 2 million kunas to one Cerovlj or one million kuna to Lanis, which again does not mean much to the state, but without that money, the municipality would simply come into question even though we all have to ask ourselves where it leads, let's say, the policy of a permanent increase in municipalities in the Republic of Croatia which we will discuss next week. We're approaching the numbers of approximately 600 municipalities, which are municipalities, which are cities, which are counties and I think that inflation should be put to rest once and for all. And that there wouldn't be any dilemma IDS will support the government's initiative to... Or the fountain and those two municipalities will absolutely be able to live because it is rich coastal cities, but no matter what, it has to be pulled manually because that policy and inflation of forming new municipalities loses any logic to not say reason. [[You don't understand.]] But to return to this Law of the Mountain and Mountain Area. This law doesn't need us at the IDS club to understand just filling the budget on some municipalities or cities. That would be wrong. That would be the fault. And such an idea certainly wasn't the idea of the creator of this law and of us MPs who voted him two or three years ago. The idea of the law is also to help the economy. That's why the profit tax rates instead of 20% as usual are fixed at 15%. So there's savings, a bonus to express myself like that, a respectable 25% compared to some other environments, and if we add that to the possibility that the withdrawal will no longer be taxed since 2004, then it's quite a stimulant for people who intend to take certain economic activity in those areas. But that's not all clearly. Through tax returns, every citizen can use benefits and according to that logic on average, well not everyone earns 4 thousand kunas, but on average 4 thousand kunas in one Buzet, Chabra, Delnice, each citizen can under quotes, withdraws about 2 to 2.5 thousand kunas without additional deductions to those 12 thousand kunas and that is certainly one stimulant and it is for every praise. I would like to ask the legislator that when the County is an Istrian cause, the law includes Pazin, preferably Karojbe, Tinjan, St. Peter and Pican, it is only 17 thousand people and I would almost promise that after that none of these centers will knock for any communal problem at the door of any ministry. And it really doesn't make sense that someone I don't know asks the government to give him something, but to create conditions that every end without the help of others can develop with the means that come true there and that's the point. That's why it's worth decentralisation this country as radically as possible it'll be better. It is clear that because of the war, due to the fact that many areas in the Republic of Croatia have been killed, there should be one great solidarity with those areas, with the disabled, and it is clear that these people of the families of the victims of the Homeland War must not be forgotten, they must not be marginalised, they must not be diminished as they were treated by members of the NOR. But gentlemen, let's decentralisation Croatia. There's no point in all the problems in this country being dealt with by the government. Let's suggest I don't know, we suggested that now the building permits will be dropped to the so-called. big cities, and that's fine, but let's not just stand on it, let's put those rights down for those other county environments in that self-rule of theirs. Don't let the state administration do it. But also when we bring down those rights then we put down the means to, for example. Pula or Pazin may carry out these activities without any higher costs compared to the revenues they have made so far. After what is to be adopted, it is certainly a responsibility on local self-government when the matter is passed, especially for the issue of these permits, as I mentioned in one city of Pula, which does not have 50,000 inhabitants, but has a traffic of real estate in the city of Zagreb with 800 thousand people. So no matter what was in those services, let's let it go now, and once again I'm going to say, try to get Mr. Ministers into this law to build that status on the hill-mounted area into the city of Pazin. The city is certainly in the most difficult position in the County of Istria, weighing more than one Labin who managed to recover well under quotes, start a new development cycle, reduce unemployment to 6%, and all the problems could have been solved in that city to allow CIMOS to take over First May from Rusha. Pazina, unfortunately, and because of the fact that the textile industry lies there, it did not go hand in hand and therefore the inclusion of this work in this law should be in some way imperative not only of the County of Istrian, Pazina but also of the Republic of Croatia. All that's worth, what I said about the County of Istria is also, in some ways, true for the County of the coastal-goran. So of their 13 local self-governments included in the law, their 2004 budgets grew by 20 to 40 percent compared to 2003. For example, in Matulje for 21% or 11 million kuna. In Vrbovska 40% or 8 million kuna. In Shares 30% or 7.7 million kuna. In Chabra, 36% or 5 million kuna. In Chavla 20 or 7 million kuna. In Jelenje, the budget increased by 40% in 2 years or 4 million kuna. The flat burns 33% or 2 1/2 million kuna. It's 21%, Skradu 34%, Fuzhina 21%. But I note once again, not only did the municipalities, or cities, profit from our entrepreneurs, or citizens. Citizens twice, meaning, directly through tax returns and through the functioning of a city that is able to resolve some of their communal problems. So now someone doesn't think along the coast or in Zagreb, Osijek or Vinkovci that there is a gift for these places. No, living in these areas is incomparably more difficult than anywhere else in the Republic of Croatia, if we except maybe islands. The construction of the infrastructure is certainly two or three times more expensive in one Buzet than I do not know, or in Cicaria, but in Slavonia or in the coast. It's not the same to lay the road in those hills or in the plains. It is not the same expensive bus ticket in these cities for students attending school or somewhere along the sea or along the plain. It's not the same expensive and consumer basket in, I don't know, one Chabar or the Clan or the Laniste. There won't be any supermarkets, and that automatically means that all the costs in those parts are 20% or 30% more expensive than in the middles where, under quotes, supermarkets come. Finally, these will continue to be the most underdeveloped Croatian landscapes and therefore the state must help them with its policy. There's not much, I'd say, extra profits that can be made in one tourism. Right, it all comes down to a little farm, two feet of wood that someone can sell. Maybe a little bit of a fuck, and that's pretty much it. So, once again I will say, no one from one river will move now to live in Chabar, no one from Pula will go to live in one Lanisce, no one from Zagreb will return to Vrbovska or Ravna Gora and it is no wonder that the depopulation de facto ate the Croatian landscape. I absolutely welcome the government's intention to lift the deadline for the application of this law. That's for sure good, that's to say hello. We've worked at the IDS Club for a long time, lobbying for this to happen, and we're glad the ministry has accepted what's good. Not only for those parts of Istria or the Primorje-Gorski County, but in the entire Republic of Croatia, and I would really ask them to try and include the City of Pazin in this bill. As for this Law on areas of special state care, this Law as well as this mountainous mountainous area has become one condition without which these parts simply cannot. I'm not gonna pick up all those ends now, we know that. I will say that in Istria it is only the municipalities of Lanisce, Oprtalj, Grožnjan, which are largely depopularized after II. the world war, that is, after these war exodus. So, I said, which is because of the war, which is because of the exodus, which is because of the huge expansion of coastal cities that have sucked their backs, which is because of the fact that the post-war borders have changed the usual pathways or that it has no longer been easy to live on agriculture as it was possible by the end of 45 or 50. For example, the municipality of Lanisce as a small part of the law on special state care, i.e. Ćicarija, is likely to have been killed for the other than any other region in Italy, which was good in Italy, i.e. the Republic of Croatia. 10.8., just one piece of information to mention, 44th in the area of the municipality in one day is burned which economics, which many residents do not even know in Istria, let alone outside Istria. Where, then, after the war when the restoration wasn't like after the Homeland War could these people? They could go to the Third Countries, they could go to big cities, but today we have a situation where less than 400 people live in Lannister. Somewhere around 390, 1 more, 1 less. Without this Law, the Cićicaria would simply remain on the income of about 600 thousand kuna and then really raise the question of what the 600 thousand kuna is. Without the grant of the County of Istria, without these public companies they could shut down their functioning. But here, with this law, that end kind of exists. It is the same with one Oprtlje, Grožnjana, a space that may have been the most painfully experienced by the exodus, but not how the film "Heart in the well" suggests 45th but 54th, i.e., after the London Memorial, when that space belonged to the former ex Yugoslavia. After the contract in Paris. Today there live somewhere between 800, 900 people, but these are areas without industry, they are areas without tourism, without some agricultural activity, and clearly you need to secure life. Today again in 2005 the song is important differently than 95. Ten years ago, space had no chance, and today I think those spaces are getting very attractive, I would say, at the level of the whole country. But what was I supposed to do? A story about these areas as Croatia's Tuscany was to be told, one recognizable policy was to be led primarily towards minorities. You should have brought water to every house, asphalt in every house, phone in every house, bring the contents, bring in a Schumacher house, Dr. Oetker, Bismarck's grandson. Well, according to that, if you want to bring in the herd, you must first bring in the predecessors of the herd, and in this direction there goes the appointment of Roman Prodi, former Italian prime minister, the future president of the European Commission for Honorary citizen of the County of Istria. It's politics, but those environments, once again, without money, are simply powerless. And that is why they should be given a chance to live a normal life because tomorrow they will get something from the European Union because they are at the border. But until then, they have to be helped by laws like this. This Law weighs an exact 285 million kuna. The budget is 90 billion kuna and certainly what is far more important, this Law is the "condicio son qua non" survival of those parts. It is clear, I agree, that Croatia should primarily be decentralisationd because it is absurd that the gross social product at this time, only 2 counties have above the republican average. And without that, there will be no future for this country, which will, in the right sense, suck up our capital in both political and economic and demographic terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33802	Thank you very much. And past. Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we have two introductions, first Mr. Frano Matušić, and then Mrs. Irene Ahel. Here you go. Mrs. Ahel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33803	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent an act on 17 February 2005 to the draft law amending the law on mountainous mountain areas with the Final Proposal for an emergency procedure. The Law on the mountainous mountainous area was passed in 2002. The aim of the Law is to enable encouraging measures to develop all areas evenly. The law contains measures that have a favourable impact on economic growth and sustainable development, demographic recovery, improving social opportunities and raising the living standards of the population in the mountainous mountainous area. One of the most significant measures to be adopted by law is a measure whereby the state gives away its share of income revenue from income losses and profit taxes incurred in the area of units of local self-government which have the status of mountainous mountainous areas and which, according to the provisions of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and administration, belong to the state budget. It now belongs to the areas in which they are being realized. As the Law which regulates these issues applies only until the end of July of this year, it is fully justified that the Government proposes amendments to this article or proposes that the law be applied permanently. When the Law on mountainous mountainous areas was adopted in 2003, with a period of validity of 2 years, it was clearly adopted for the sake of the upcoming parliamentary elections, because the laws are passed for unlimited time, duration, and when circumstances and the purpose of adoption are changed then the Law ceases to apply. I am in favour of the Law which will allow for the permanent resolution of the mountainous mountainous areas and for a clear definition of the criteria when certain areas will cease in this way legally protected and encouraged. We are all doing this because this will mean tangible progress and a balanced development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia. Recognizing the need to continue the application of this Act, the Government referred before any initiative to the Parliamentary procedure this amendment to the Law. The Law on Mountain Mountain Areas covers a total of 45 towns and municipalities of the Republic of Croatia on an area of 5 923.45 square kilometers or 10.5% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In areas covered by the Law live 212,000 233 people, or 4.8% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. I come myself from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County where even 1/3 units of local self-government or 51% of the area falls or is covered by this Act. FROM frequent contacts with people living in the area, I know the difficulties they face in life in this area. Living conditions in mountainous mountainous areas are permanently difficult, these areas lag behind the average economic development of the Republic of Croatia. The climate conditions in these areas are also very difficult, the population in the areas covered by mountainous mountainous areas is much smaller than in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the population of the third age lives in these areas. All of the above points to the need for further care of the country on mountainous mountainous areas. The resources of the state budget which are subject to this Act shall be granted to units of local self-government to enable economic growth and development and sustainable development. The units of local self-government in the system of this Act create preconditions for the rapid development and raising of the living standards of the population by investing in infrastructure. Without State investment these areas would soon relax young people without employment being able to move out of those areas that we have witnessed in the past 50 years. Very often, it is said that this government does not finance local administration and self-government. It is clear that only by virtue of the Law on mountainous mountainous areas in the last year alone, the state singled out from the state budget on the basis of the refund of taxes on areas of special state care and mountainous areas and the city of Vukovar about a billion kuna. It is evident that the government has recognised the benefits of the Law to units of local self-government and that the government’s clear intentions are to help the state budget’s money develop evenly in all regions. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of the Law amending the laws on mountainous mountainous areas by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33804	Thank you very much. Mr. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to try to be brief on your instructions. So it seems equally important to say a few things on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. It is clear, however, that the measure adopted by this proposal amending the Law on areas of special state concern and mountainous areas is a measure which is related to the time limit running out in July. This is a fact which is irrefutable and therefore approaches the amendment of this Act, in order to extend the period of its application. Since the application of this legislative measure by the units of local self-government in these areas provides additional funding to which they have their own resources and since the situation in these areas indicates that their problems and needs are large and that they still need additional needs by the State, we consider it necessary to abolish the current time limit on the application of this provision. However, I would also like to point out that it is essentially technical change, namely, why technical change? Because the government has already shown its previous behaviour towards these areas that they care very much about the development of these areas, and that, first of all, by adopting the budget of last year and this year's budget, it is in Article 35. The law on the implementation of the state budget is just planned to set aside the funds for tax return not by the units of local self-government but by the state. So those assets simply went to the burden of the state. Why do I mention this, first of all here there were words from representatives of some clubs as the government took over, as it listened to their demands, etc., it's simply not true. Why? Because in 2003, the accounts of numerous units of local self-government, cities and municipalities were blocked because the return of defeat went from their accounts, a fact that no one here pointed out. By coming to the authorities of HDZ and their coalition partners, this fact has changed, of course, to the benefit of these areas of special state concern. And there is another point to point out, I was simply encouraged to do so in the discussions that preceded that unfortunately people in these areas began to declare the areas of special state care in 2003, precisely because of this fact that their giro accounts, the local self-government unit in areas of special state care, had been blocked for several months and had made it difficult for them to work, because of the return of taxes from their accounts, therefore because of this fact. Fortunately, here is the beginning of last year that situation changed, and of course we continued both this year and Article 35. The law on the implementation of the state budget continues to apply and of course we did not plan any income from income tax and income tax from local self-government units covered by this Act. And so it is quite clear that it is the technical change itself, which, here I am thanking the Government, of course, that it responded in time to both laws and that there will be this technical change which is already respected by the adoption of the budget itself last year and this year. Just to mention, on the basis of tax returns after the annual income tax application for 2000 last year, we also received the basis of all these taxes that went to the burden of the state, not on the burden of units of local self-government, we had almost a billion kuna invested in these areas. Almost a billion kuna is invested, allocated to local self-government units, areas of special state concern and mountain-mounted areas covered by the law. So this is a significant amount, the amount of funds allocated to these areas for their development, from which they can indeed finance those of their basic needs, but equally uniformly develop and follow the development step that is present... in the more developed regions of the Republic of Croatia. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] We therefore once again support these two proposals from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this technical change actually happens. I say, it is already respected by the adoption of the budget and by the adoption of, in particular, the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of Article 35, and therefore I see no reason to really talk too much about how someone took over or how someone suggested that it be done, and beyond the Government's wishes, it's simply not true, because the government has respected it by adopting the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33806	Thank you very much. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. First Mr. Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33807	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. No matter what they want to say or don't want to tell me, the facts say otherwise. It is true that the SDP advocates' club sent its proposals to the procedure on 11 February and that the government had sent its draft laws after it had sent the SDPs to the procedure on 22 February. Second, a speech about not caring. You know, a respected colleague of the state doesn't care, or the state doesn't care about these areas, especially areas of special state concern. It's best to talk about the fact that it's not true. You do not worry about your colleague, because you have passed a special law among other things and have specifically signed under the Fund, the International Monetary Fund commitment to reduce from 3% points to 2% points the possibility of financial contributions for further investment and development of units of local and regional self-government in this area. And the third indicator that says it's false, take the budget for this year, so you'll actually see how much less the funds of individual municipalities, cities and counties have gotten. After all, you also had a conflict at your club over that, for example, Osijek-Baranja County received about 200 million kunas less.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33808	Thank you very much. We've got another correction to the incorrect assumption. Mr. Korenika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33809	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What my colleague was saying was only partially true. Because unfortunately, our government is constantly on the defensive side with legal proposals, it is best seen on these two laws that we now have only after counterpart Arlovic said, only after the SDP proposal that was made in the procedure came the government with its own. And by the way, I can only ask you, dear esteemed colleague, where it is pompous, so it is incorrect for you to take care, because where is your pompous announced Law of Areas of Special State Interest that you have announced? He's gone, Mr. Darling. When he comes to the Parliament, then you can say something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33810	You tell everyone, don't throw yourself at each other. You threw him, you threw him, you threw him, you threw him, you threw him, you threw him, you threw him, you threw him, you threw him, you threw him, you threw him, you You did, but you were talking to him. And we're here, there's more of us, not just Frano Matušić here. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Pejo Trčević on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33811	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I will talk on behalf of the HSP Club about the measure of the law, I will not talk about members of NOB, partisan, fascists, or anti-fascists, but really about the Law, or the draft law amending the Law on areas of special state care and mountainous areas. This Law lays down areas for which the Republic of Croatia should be particularly concerned with the various promotional measures for development and reconstruction. It should be noted that these areas were actually occupied by aggressors and in the Homeland War were robbed, destroyed and devastated not only economically but also demographically as well as culturally. For areas of special state concern, a range of measures are envisaged to restore and develop that area, and thus to measure the tax revenue from income tax and profit tax incurred in the area of local self-government units in those areas, which, under the Law on the financing of local self-government, belongs to the State, i.e. are part of the state budget. These funds are allocated to units of local self-government, therefore to municipalities and cities in these areas to promote their economic, demographic and all kinds of other development. We at the HSP Club support the abolition of this time limit of this Act in order to continue to provide additional funding for which units of local self-government will have their own self-rule as it stands in the proposal to amend and supplement this Act. But just by referring to this in the Law that stands alone, the units of the local unit will have those resources. The HSP Club holds that in this segment the law is flawed and flexible because it is not defined how and what these funds will be spent in. Except it says only for the development of local environments, or local self-government. The HSP Club considers that it is therefore necessary to go along with this Act to amend and supplement the Law on the budget for local self-government in areas of special state care as well as in mountainous and mountainous areas. In the budget of local self-government, a special item should be classified under the basis of this Act, as these funds are precisely known and defined in the lip. In this way, they would prevent the non-intentional spending of money transferred from the state budget to the budget of the local self-government unit. In this way, the funds mentioned would in no case be used for closure to call a hole in the budget of local self-government units. This bill of ours could at any time control whether these funds are being spent on purpose, and could subsequently determine exactly what these funds have been spent on. I must point out, and I have personal experience that these funds have so far been not used for purpose, and even in some segments and items in local self-government units, or in the budget for local self-government, even for the team to close the gap and holes in the budget of the local unit. Such a proposal would therefore prevent any self-will and accidental spending of funds or illegal treatment of local self-government units. The Croatian Foreign Law Club will support this time-restriction of the restrictions of this law, hoping it will encourage economic operators in the field of special state care and mountain-mounted areas to better work and employment and job creation, as well as construction of both economic and municipal infrastructures. As for mountainous and mountainous areas, we are pleased to encourage the protection of the nature and natural resources of the Republic of Croatia, with the development of these areas, to promote the survival and survival of the population, and to prevent the migration of the population in mountainous and mountainous areas. We know these areas are difficult to live and survive. For these reasons, the HSP Club considers that the state should make more permanent or permanent solutions for these areas, i.e. mountainous areas, not temporarily as provided for by this law. And in the end, the HSP Club does not want to participate in discussions and bickerings between parties' clubs that the day before or the day after proposed amendments and additions to this law. We believe that the proposal is good and we will support it and I hope that it will be considered, Mr Minister, both in the Ministry and in the Government on our proposal to amend and supplement the Budget Law and we will give the Government and the Ministry a 60-day period and if you don't make any proposals then the HSP Club will refer the amendment and supplementation proposal and let the Government propose its own and we will accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33812	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Ratko Gajica. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, Ms. Representative and Vice-President Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33813	Thank you very much, fellow Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Well, since we're having this Friday afternoon, there's little to talk about in the almost family atmosphere. It seems to me that we will all support these amendments to the law, which means that changes are necessary, that the reasons are more than justifiable, that we seem to have understood them all regardless of the differences between us. I sincerely hope that sometime this could turn into a good custom not only when it comes to the European Union but when it really comes to economic interests. Of course it doesn't go without the usual folklore who was faster, whether it was SDP, whether it was HDZ, who he prescribed from, but ultimately it doesn't matter when the law is amended anymore. We will, of course, support the amendments of the law as a club as well. All right, here's my colleague Caine said that in the mountain-mounted areas, everyone was relieved and they were afraid of what if this change didn't take place. This is a fact because they probably called other clubs and not only in our club from different parts of Croatia and warned that the deadlines would expire and that unless the deadline is really extended there would be serious economic problems or minimum stagnation in these areas. And that's why it's good that we agreed to uphold the laws. However, I must say when it comes to areas of special state concern that I am terribly sorry that we have only a change this time. There are versions, I should really seriously read whether it is the sixth or eighth changes to the law and the reasons why the law has been passed and the changes have remained the same, so I will remind myself that it is to remove the consequences of war, faster return of exiles and refugees, fostering demographic and economic progress, achieving a more uniform development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia. So these are different but mostly undeveloped or once developed and later devastated areas that have suffered work damage or have been under occupation for several years, especially the first and second groups. It was an announcement of the law, I remember what it was supposed to be called. It's supposed to be the Law on Areas of Special State Interest, but it doesn't worry. I'm always worried when actually the biggest correction happens on the language plan. It's much more important when he's on that tangible economic plan, and then whether care or interest is especially with different meanings, I don't think it's too important for citizens in the end. I'll remind you ever since that change was made. I submitted a proposal to amend the law on 13 May 2003 in the procedure on behalf of the HSLS Club. It is now clear that it will be two years since I submitted that proposal. At that time, I was told that the former government would make a new law that would, of course, be better, a better quality, which would fix all the shortcomings, but here's the government's former one didn't do it, this one announced, so I sincerely hope, Mr. Minister, that today would be very valuable to us when this law can be expected and not just this patching of new five or six months, because we are interested in what will change further, how will we be able to fix the standard of citizens living in these areas. In addition, it would be very important if already, I will talk more about areas of special state concern, finally determine one competent body to monitor the effects of the activities that exist. What body is that? Is that the government, I'm not for setting up for different committees, supervision. It's known when something you won't decide to start a commission, but it would be really good to see who it is who's really going to check out which of these measures gave the best results, which are the best results. And if we found out then we could very clearly determine what measures should continue to be applied. I will remind except for this support and the reasons why I then sought on behalf of the club to amend the Law on the field of special state care. It is an absurdity that took place in the area of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, specifically in the city of Daruvar where it is truly clumsy and perhaps I could use it to dare to be more honest with a more difficult term for local government which refused to place the whole area in the area of special state care. She refused from me completely vague reasons. They were afraid of something, something was unclear to them, and smart people usually ask, other people reject it because it's not their proposal or their ignorance. So about 450 kuna is lost on average on a monthly basis, not to mention what this would mean in the specific life of the citizens of the City of Daruvar, Daruvar, who had long been a UNPA zone in which of course nothing could develop. This is a agricultural area where particularly attractive measures are to encourage agriculture, where business and economic areas are only talked about without saying what this would mean in the field of education. So here, Mr. Minister, with the support of the law, with a proposal that when the amendments to the law are really waiting so long, let's wait another month to figure out what the most effective measures are and who will be the body to control them. It is clear to me that the government disowns certain financial resources by deploying them to local self-government or by making them available to them, but then, indeed, adequate mechanisms should be made to control the use of such money because money is something that really needs to be controlled everywhere. In addition to being sure that this will be passed by consensus, I will ask for amendments to this Act to reconsider that such difficult failures that have occurred in our county of Bjelogorje, in the area of the town of Daruvar, no longer occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33814	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, two, Mrs. Lalic, and then Željko Ledinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33815	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Although both the proposal for a law on areas of special state care contains only two articles and, in its form, they do seem to be insignificant, particularly for the population of the areas to which they relate and, of course, for the territory of the state as a whole. To see the importance of change, it is necessary to come from the motives for which the basic law was adopted and the goals that it sought to achieve. As the term says, this Law refers to areas of particular concern or at least should be particularly concerned. Therefore, the State has observed that some areas of the Republic of Croatia have special problems in everyday existence that do not have an equal chance of economic development and therefore need special state care to make it easier for them to create conditions of normal life and for such normal development. The assumption of life and economic development is the return of the population as well as its survival in these areas. Today, it is still not easy to live in these areas, although the restoration has been done much, it is not pleasant to live in the environment of ruins that have grown into many years of vegetation, in the environment of minefields and undiscovered and undiscovered mass graves. It's not easy to live without water, without electricity, without even having an orderly infrastructure. Life there requires motive and only love for its end after years of break-up surely that motive is not. Because of the lack of economic activity, unemployment in these areas often exceeds 40%. It's hard to believe, but it's true, you still live there on welfare and humanitarian aid. Such a standard of citizens, such as the standard of citizens and the budget of units of local self-government. Income is very little, taxes allowed by the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government are completely unaccountable. The result is a thin budget with which the unit cannot exist or fulfill its basic function as defined by the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is said: "The units of local self-government are doing business from the local part of the circle which directly meets the needs of citizens, and in particular jobs relating to the organisation of settlements and housing of spatial and urban planning, municipal activities, child care, social care, primary health care, education and primary education, culture, physical culture and sport, consumer protection, protection and improvement of the natural environment, fire protection and civil protection. Too many commitments for small municipal and city budgets. And the possibility of the municipality and the city directly meeting the needs of their citizens depends on the quality of life. The quality of life, for example, can be spoken of by residents of Okucani when in the small hours of the night they have to go to a pharmacy or pharmacy in Slavonski Brod, 85 km in one direction and so much in the other. Why is that? So because the Croatian Health Insurance Office in the area of the county is financing the duty of one pharmacy and the local self-government unit has no ability to finance the other's duty as much as it needs its citizens. Or what quality of life the disabled person can talk about that in the rain, snow by water goes a mile, two in one direction. So as this Amendment continues to provide additional funding for development priorities, i.e. raising the quality of life according to locally established priorities and needs through the budget of local self-government units. The Croatian Peasant Party's club supports this bill because the population is rich, the end of the land is a desert, no matter what the state does in its arrangement and maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33816	Thank you very much. The other part has a colleague named Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33817	Honored vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Here, allow a few more words on behalf of the HSS Club regarding this part of the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area. Well, I would say in the introduction that the Law on the mountainous mountainous area is one of the few laws that went back 10, 12 years, that were passed here in our Parliament that allowed some of the funds to be returned to local self-government. Most of the laws we had now were mostly such a type that they only made certain obligations to local self-government, and to the counties and cities and municipalities here are the colleagues and mayors of the former and the mayors, the current former know very well. And that's how I have to say that the idea of a few years ago when it started talking about that law, including his, a lot of his changes. However, we have come to the fact that some of the funds to the local self-government are thus returned and that our local self-governments from areas covered by the Law on the mountainous mountainous area are mostly satisfied with their sources of income that they have and which are significantly larger. But when we go now to support this Law it would be good if we had tried to make a complete analysis, that the ministry had tried to analyse the current application of this Law in all segments not only in this segment of the return of funds to municipal budgets but also to see what the other measures had taken in the Law. I don't know what else was planned, at least often, some of these measures were often changed in one way or another. Because when we look at it, for example. Some of those municipalities that are, here on the recent roundtable that we had in the Primorje-Gorski County, it is evident that mostly employment in these municipalities belonging to the hilly area is the largest number of employees actually in state-owned enterprises. For example, Skrad municipality, it's over 35% employees are in state-owned enterprises: electricity, forests, railways and so on. Therefore, I think it should be said that in these parts of the country there must continue to be special care and care. And there has to be one big co-operation between the state and local self-government on all the projects that are going on in that area. It's the only way we'll be able to keep one regional development, one rural part, and I don't think it can be our goal to have just along the main road through the Lika population and on the left and right of that road we don't have anyone, too, on the other parts. In that part, there must be one joint appearance and local self-government because local self-government often makes it difficult for people to live in these areas with its own measures. First of all, I mean certain municipal fees that can't be in the Gorski kotar equal to the Rivers and we have cases that in some municipalities they are and we have cases that in some municipalities they are like that in some cities. Nor can it be the case that the county prescribes the highest water compensation in the area and that in other areas it is not such a high fee. We know that in these hilly areas, because of the high percentage of noise, that's exactly how water cleans, retains and remains natural to say so. Also, when we talk about state-owned enterprises, I think that the same thing should be done to make sure that the electricity connection price can't be close to 20 thousand kunas because some network has to spread, and in the city of Zagreb is, I don't know, 4 thousand or less is it? Therefore, and these are all the things that happen in these municipalities and cities, and in this way, if a continuous series of measures are not being conducted between all entities then we come to the fact that clear people there do not want to live because they can only be employed in state-owned enterprises, that the economy is not sufficiently developed, that all other fees they pay are far more than they should normally pay to live somewhere else where this is a slightly better situation and then it does not give one overall support to the development of these areas. There should be further to me talking about, when we talk about this, about this analysis that I'm saying isn't done right now with this Law, maybe it's good to see then and all the other laws that we've passed here, and with some next change of some or similar law that we really get a glimpse of whether we've done something about it now, or whether we're still too centralised. I think you'll agree with me that centralization is still too big and what my colleague Cain was saying in the introduction that if we let this law go the way it's supposed to, and I believe that we all want to do that, she won't ask for additional funding from the state budget. And also when we heard from our HDZ colleagues that, I don't know, this one billion that's going back locally in 90 that it's a big shift. It's a shift, but when you count 1:90 it's still small and we know that the total kind of giving of our citizens, only 10% returns to local budgets. It would be more logical if it were far more. Then easier and easier on the local level, we could also work and work. And in that part, I see this kind of centralization that's still too big. In addition to these, these laws that we will change I believe we all agree on that we should certainly take care of other measures that allow these areas to develop better and better. That's where I think of the upcoming measures... and other pre-accession funds that will allow some of the measures that we have not worked in these areas so far because there was no need, and now we will have to implement them safely so that they can enter and join Europe as quickly as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the HSS Club will support both of these proposals, which is already a colleague and said that here and in the future we expect that, when changes in laws like this, we do not only agree to see how much of the municipality will remain more budgetary resources than to see any other measures and analysis of the implementation of measures so that we can then monitor whether we have hit the essence of these measures by some law or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33818	Thank you. Next is HNS Club PGS, counterpart Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33819	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues first of all, let me say in the beginning that we will support all these four bill proposals. It's completely irrelevant this moment who was first, who was second, who suggested, who first thought? Well, we all knew those laws were coming out in the seventh month, and anyone who suggested it first suggested it was a good suggestion. The other one who supported him was very supportive of him. I think it's a discussion that we really shouldn't be having right now. What should be said when it comes to these two laws is that Croatia has always been a country of contrast, geographical, cultural, political but never been a country of such social contrast as it is today. HNS has been pushing for regional development since the start of the party. That's one of the topics we're talking about most, but to figure out what that really means? This means that the child who was born here in the Upper City has the same chance as the child who was born in Kukachi, on the road between Slunj and, and Tounj. That's not the case today. Until we do, until this country is satisfied. And there will be no state of contented citizens. In these parts, I'm talking primarily about areas of special state care being helped so far. Unfortunately not enough. These are areas that were mostly underdeveloped in the former state, and they fell under those underdeveloped funds as it was already called at that time and were then aided unfortunately insufficiently. These are areas that the war has not only impoverished further but also economically and populationally, and that is particularly stressed and populationally devastated. People escaped from that area, people fled from those parts. The Croats also escaped. The Serbs also escaped. These are areas where, in the good part, infrastructure is not even at the country level much poorer than Croatia. Areas where there is no electricity in a village of nearly 1,000 inhabitants. Where's the village rich man who used to work in the post office so he gets a pension state. The richest man in the village, everyone around him gathers because he has a state pension. These are, by the way, areas covered up or less covered national tensions. National tensions stemming from poverty by the greatest work. If the road leads you once you return to the sea with an old road Plitvice turn in the middle of Slunj by the municipality on the road towards Tounj. It's a road leading through a beautiful neighborhood, relatively good road. It can pass nicely, through a region that resembles Croatia Zagorje, hills, valleys, streams, clean air. Everything's great. Except there's no living man all the way from 50 miles away. No man, no cat, no dog, no cow, no nobody. Partly this is, of course, the result of war events, from one, the other, the third, which are all sides, but also the fact that it obviously didn't help, it didn't stimulate people enough to come and live there, so that they could live there. All over that neighborhood, and I'm especially talking about Kordun and, and Banovina along the road, there are schools. Big schools built in the '50s, '60s with 10, 15, 20 classes that are now empty. In these schools there is no teaching and believe or not the main ambition of people in such places as the Shiroka River near, near Vojnic and some others is to turn these schools into nursing homes. Obviously it's a child's interest is gone, the old people have, there are old people in cities who would probably come to live in these nursing homes because they'd be cheaper about it. But it's a national tragedy, it's a tragedy for all of us. But we all know the situation that I don't owe a lot of time has gone by, and the break we've skipped all over all of this is a good attempt to help this moment that can be helped. Other measures need to be designed, and situations in which people will voluntarily settle in these parts of the new people need to be designed. Those who have gone from there are hardly ever going to return in greater numbers. First in this way, and then in every long way the state can afford. All in all, the PGS will support these four bill proposals in the air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33820	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33821	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Few colleagues and colleagues. The reasons for the existence of the Law on areas of special state care and mountainous areas were discussed by counterpart Arlovic on behalf of the clubs. And that thing doesn't make sense to owe. Three characteristic areas to be helped in Croatia. These are areas that have been particularly affected by war, so areas of special state concern, these are mountainous mountainous areas due to a specific lifestyle. Difficulty, bad connection. And these are our islands. If we didn't really help these legal proposals and solutions like this, they would relax. Let them go like this, but if we didn't have these special benefits there wouldn't be anyone left. Therefore, clearly there is no point in talking about the justification of such solutions, we all agree that such solutions are necessary, necessary. The best testimony will be given to those living in those areas. Who knows what these laws have given them, what they've made possible. And making it possible for us to actually consider in principle the need for decentralisation of financial resources not only for these areas but at all. In Croatia at all. Because local self-government has managed to improve the quality of life through these means. She managed to save people especially in mountainous mountainous areas not to move out, managed to attract some to come because they were simply worth doing business there and living in those areas. We see, therefore, that when we decentralise these tax assets, it has excellent effects. And that should make us think about further downsizing, leaving a bigger cookie to the local self-government tax authorities. Now that it has been seen that this law passed in the last parliamentary majority on mountainous mountainous areas to run out of time, and that these ends could be left without those benefits, the 7th SDPs in Skrad organised a round table. The host was the mayor of Komadin, the presidents of municipal and city councils from the mountainous mountainous areas came. And they spoke of their experiences in two years of application of this law. And these experiences are very good. The building in which the round table in Skrad was held was renovated thanks to these funds. If it hadn't been for this mountainous mountainous law, that building couldn't have been restored. Many schools have been arranged. They helped with the fire. Unclassified roads have been repaired. One of the major problems of local self-government maintaining unclassified roads. That money helped them do it. The results of that round table of experiences we heard there were these two bill proposals that the SDPs had sent into the procedure. Neither did the government rest when she saw that the SDPs had sent these two legal proposals. The government followed that fine example and made her proposals. A dozen days later. We clearly don't mind, we support such government activity, we commend the government, it might be good to extend such practice to other areas. We urge the government to refer other SDP proposals to this House as its own. Because we think it's going to help improve the state of affairs then. Although the government was doing unnecessary work there, it could simply accept these SDP proposals because they are exactly the same. However, in order to facilitate this somewhat unpleasant situation, the SDP will withdraw these proposals, withdraw them and vote for the government's proposals because they are SDP's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33822	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Before Vice-President Mato Alovic addresses as a proposing, I must say that there are 11 registered deputies. Here's some suggestive information to be found. Here's a colleague, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33823	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course I'll be very brief after what our Club said on behalf of a representative of the Club who spoke to a colleague named Stazic. The fact is that we have already announced this in the opening explanation of our bill. If all the clubs of the representatives support the need to amend these and supplement the laws on mountainous mountainous areas and the Law on areas of special state concern. They bring the goal of abolishing the restrictions on the application of these laws to mountainous mountainous areas and thus practically enable the regional development of the Republic of Croatia through this law, which enables the restoration of both demographic and economic development and undeveloped mountainous areas. In addition, it is possible to allow faster return of displaced and displaced persons to areas in mountainous mountainous areas located in areas of special state concern. And those who were affected by war or in direct contact with war. In such a situation, we have no reason or need to remain in the process of our draft laws, because it would only burden the procedure, especially when it comes to the clarification of possible amendments and about the laws themselves. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will withdraw from the further procedure of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas that we have proposed, the Law on Areas of Specific State Care that we have proposed. But we will vote in favour of the draft laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia because they are, in a substantive sense, the draft laws actually prepared by the SDP Representatives' Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33824	Thank you very much. We're going with an individual discussion. Representative Mato Stimac. Here you go. Oh, I'm sorry for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Gait.]] Here you go. A representative of Gajica. ... Article...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A microphone and a colleague's article. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: microphone.]] Turn yourself in. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Now, it's okay we hear you. [[Intruder: Turn on the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33825	... The word on behalf of the club, so I intervene in that sense. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33826	I'm obliged to give you information. You've been called, and the one who's not in the hall loses his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33827	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33828	I'm sorry. He's a fellow S.H.I.E.L.D. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33829	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'll do the same very, very briefly, it's about time, there's only 20 of us in the assembly room. I will support these amendments to the law. I don't think it was necessary to pass a law that was limited to five years, if it had to be left longer, we wouldn't have anything to talk about today. But I'll only say one thing. He is in any case positive and has brought one part of the funds to municipalities in the area of special state care, because at the time I was the head of such a municipality, the municipality of Voćin. There is another thing that at the time was a bigger problem for all the mayors and mayors of the municipality of state care, which was drastically reduced current support for local self-government units in 2000. I'll just take an example of the Voćin municipality or the Miklauš municipality that I know very well. Where I can say that in 1999, the ongoing support of local self-government units was thousands, millions and eight hundred and thirty kuna. To reduce the current power in 2000 to 812 thousand kuna. The effects of this bill that was passed, so we got about 200, 300 thousand kuna in the budget, but we lost a million kuna from the current support. In 2003, it ended with some 380 million in the Voćin municipality of about 300 million, 300 thousand kuna, pardon, in the Mikloush municipality. But unfortunately, current support fell to 400 thousand, so with a million and 800 to 411 thousand kuna for the Voćin municipality. It's not until this year, so with the current support this government has brought, it means somewhere around a million and 250 thousand kuna with the effects that we've had since this law 380, nearly 400 thousand kuna, and with those funds that the Ministry of Finance is now returning to citizens, no more units, the Voćin municipality itself, but the state itself is returning, we came in 2005 about the budget that we had 99. I don't know maybe the situation in all environments isn't the same or the same, but I believe it is. That year we met all the mayors and mayors from that area in the hall below where we complained to the former government and Mr. Goran Granić treated us very badly, that I was finally sorry that I was coming to Zagreb that day at all. He gave us a political speech and sent us home. So I welcome this adoption of this law, with the help of the state, so I believe that current support must also be those that can help these environments because employment is very low or not at all. And I think that the law that's being prepared means without it being just cosmetic in the name will be a law of special national interest and that people will feel what it means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33830	Thank you very much. ... /The speaker has been disabled./... Next is MP Niko Rebic Excuse me. [[Intruder: microphone, microphone.]] You didn't hear me? Yes, it is. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33831	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will still speak differently because I survived all changes to this law as mayor in areas of special state concern. I know it's late, but there's no big interest in being seen by the representatives, but it's good to remember what we were expecting. Therefore, the Law on Areas of Special Care was adopted in 96. The aim was to remove the consequences of the war as soon as possible, to ensure the return of the population living in those areas as soon as possible, to draw demographic, economic progress and to achieve a more uniform development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the law in 96 has also achieved both psychological positive effects and good results in the return of the public to free areas. In fact, in this law, its adoption of the state has shown that the returnee will not be left behind and that he will take good care of them and I say, among other things, give good results in the return of the public. It was particularly felt in my county, so Split-Dalmatia, where only two units of local self-government were occupied and the town of Vrlika in full and the municipalities of Croatia were mostly occupied. This law, which was mainly implemented by the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development and by the care of this county, brought about the restoration of family homes and infrastructures, ended in record time, and large steps were made, so on the return of the population. What was not good at restoring these areas and which did not produce results in the application of this otherwise good law is the launch of the economy and employment. Not because the law is bad or because the law did not stimulate it, but because of a number of circumstances. Why, in fact, entrepreneurs did not recognise the advantages of opening production plants in areas of special state care despite the many benefits that the law made possible, from income tax, smaller profit tax, customs reliefs on imports of machinery, i.e. the full release of customs duties on the same, etc. This did not produce results for the simple reason that financial and other non-discipline existed in the country at the time, because people would open up an area where there were smaller taxes when they were not paid taxes in large city headquarters. Second, the second thing that has affected is that economic operators in these areas have not been evaluated at all or participated in the conversion. What's most important, and what's particularly affected, I say, is that the city of Vrliku that I was in back then, which is that in conversion as in the whole state, the companies in their headquarters, which had power plants in those areas. "Dalmatinka" collapsed in Sinj, "Cetinka" in Trilj, "Dalma" in Split, etc. All of this today, so even today, all of this gawks empty not only in Vrlica but also in other centres where there was any production. And therefore not guilty of this 96-year law, the Law on Areas of State Care, is the fault of the people who work, from courts, ministries, to the Privatisation Fund. So, isn't it absurd that "Dalmatinka" Son who fell apart and who was sold 10 years ago is still entitled to drive in Vrlica. And now I'm gonna cut this short. So the city of Vrlika is now buying its own, so if it wants to come to ownership to start some kind of production, it must pay for what it has never paid for "Dalmatinka" but passed on to itself by some self-government act. So she didn't build it or create it, and here's the town of Vrlika today has to pay it out of his modest budget for hundreds of thousands of kunas if she wants to solve it legally, find someone who knows how to design production and eventually give it to him to produce and hire people because otherwise it will continue to fail for years and lie down as it happens now. So it's only possible because the Privatisation Fund is doing what it's doing. So I'm still convinced that the best law that we had in this law in 96, which changed every year once, in 2000 alone, I'm going to say it changed three times, so every time that law on areas of special state care changed it reduced every time, it reduced the rights and the benefits that existed in that law. A colleague spoke precisely about this meeting with Dr Goran Granic at the beginning of the coalition government and I will remember the same. He called all the mayors and mayors and mayors from a free area in the town hall and explained to us the positions of the coalition authorities and what those areas can expect in the near future. First, he said he would change the law, but they had already limited their incomes from taxes and state support, so they said it would take five years, then they would think about it, or they started to cut off the benefits that were in the law. Dr. Goran Granic's announcement had the culmination seen the fifth change of laws in just two years of coalition rule. On 28 January 2003, this House adopted the Law on areas of special state care. I would like to stress that this is one of the worst laws this House has ever passed in its 15-year history. In fact, it consists of 40 articles, almost half of them are concerned with the return of houses and property allocated for temporary use and the prosecution of those unless that changes within a certain period of time.’ The other articles speak for the first, second, and even third groups. I think the areas were then extended to a third group that was underdeveloped, and I'm really wondering why and so did those rights. Ironically, it is now the SDP that proposes to amend and supplement the Law on the areas of special state care because here it fears that the HDZ Government will stop taking care of these areas in 2005. So let me finish. However it was necessary to pass a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, it is important to pass a whole new Law on areas of special state interest, because this one cannot be fixed. So, in these areas, what else can come to life can be brought to life, because it really threatens the real danger of soon becoming empty and dead spaces. So I'll conclude. We will support this, but I think it's the right solution to pass a new law and that the sooner this House votes the Law on areas of special state interest, because then I think this government is going to do this to these places that are actually the only ones who have given a full price and I don't think that when it comes to defending their country they haven't asked for the price and I think it's time to start again and treat it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33832	Thank you very much. You have one replica. Mr. Peru's representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33833	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have accepted the appeal to give up the debate, but I am in this assembly and I will hear the debate to the end and I am sorry to have to rephrase my colleague, Rebić, for his expressed concern about the area of special state concern because he said that the SDP was afraid that HDZ would stop caring about these areas. I think, in this way, planting parties at the very least is inappropriate. I'm sorry I had to replicate, but it's my duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33834	All right, you have the right to respond to your colleague's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33835	So I want to answer, not that I was afraid, I was talking about the irony of those who actually abolished the rights and benefits in areas of special state concern that right now they remembered that they were afraid that the HDZ government would stop caring about these areas. So that's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33836	Thank you very much. This was really necessary, too. Rose Lelic MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33837	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what we see in the debate so far, that we're all going to support these amendments and additions to the law, and that's certainly good. I would, however, take note of this Law on the areas of special state care, which actually regulates and determines what specific areas of special concern are, but also includes a series of incentive measures for their restoration and development, and all in order to eliminate the effects of war and faster return of the population. However, I would point out here that it would be good for all the encouraging measures to be applied and for all those interested in settlement in these areas and not previously populated. I think that would be all about the purpose of one demographic and economic progress and achieving a more even development of all areas. We see that this even development is really necessary for us, and this shows a large range of gross social products per capita in various parts of Croatia, so let's say that it runs from $1350 per capita in Ličko-Senj County, to more than 19,000 in Zagreb, that Zagreb has a gross social product per capita three times the average of which is classified as more developed countries of the European Union. It would also point out that since 21 counties, as many as 14 have a gross social product below $4,000, and when I look at my County of Vukovar-Srijemm, in 2003 it had a thousand $810 per capita or just 28.3% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, and that is why this is really necessary and necessary support for regional development, especially this weaker-developed county. A significant measure is that it is safe to say that income tax and profit tax remain for local self-government units, and here the ministry says only in 2003 that units are supported by 285 million and slightly more kuna and that about 180 units of local self-government or 48.5% of the area are covered. It would certainly be good if the unit were smaller and they didn't need that kind of help. But since their needs and problems are still great, these measures certainly need to be extended. When we again observe the County of Vukovar-Srijem, then in the first group according to these classifications of the area of special state care there are several places, with the City of Vukovar making 87 thousand inhabitants. And since the renovation is in the most part and it's over, I think it's going to become more and more interesting, actually, the third group by class. The third group includes developing areas in the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately, here, there may be more in the future. This also applies criteria such as economic development, structural difficulties, unemployment and industrial and agricultural restructuring. And I would just say, here, that unemployment in Vukovar-Srijem County in 2003 was 37.7%, and the republican average is 19.1 and we see that fellow Cain, in fact, tends to have all their municipalities and cities less than 6%. Then we see where each of our areas are. Certainly, these criteria include demographic criteria as well as border municipalities, so that of the 5 municipalities listed in Vukovar-Srijem County, even 4 of them are located in this area of the county area. That's why I needed them, here's to point them out. That these are both Babi's beams and the Drenovs, Gunja and Vrbanja with about 22 thousand inhabitants. And when we count those 87% then we see that 50% of the population is actually in our county and falls under these areas of special state concern. And these measures, certainly, that we're discussing here today, are certainly significant, but I don't think they're enough in themselves. That we need stronger support and promotion of development in our region, is the development of agriculture, in particular livestock farming, vegetables, fruit growing, their organised production, but also organised buying-in. Encouraging these small and medium craftsmen, and I think that these measures may exist, but that the population is not familiar and therefore needs to be strengthened and advisory services. And all of this should stop, now there's a negative trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33838	Thank you, colleague. Next up is MP Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33839	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, few colleagues and colleagues. It is certain that neither by adopting these amendments nor by supplementing the Law, we have four proposals here, will solve problems in areas of special state concern, i.e. in mountainous and mountainous areas. But surely by adopting this proposal, we will contribute to helping help from the central state to come to these parts and therefore help address the many problems that exist in these areas. In this section, I'd like to look back or comment on some of the debates we've heard here. One of them is the issue of dedicated, or unintended spending of funds. I wouldn't be much for us from the state level to prescribe what the mayors, mayors, or chieftains will spend money because it's also called local self-government and I think we should leave it to local units to use funds in their priorities in a way that they think is their priority. Somewhere in school, somewhere in kindergarten, there's a road that needs to be arranged, there's a fire department somewhere, and I'm saying, at a local level, it's best to assess what that local community needs best. And also the question of decentralisation, it's said here in one speech that this is a good example of decentralisation. If we look at the essence of this Law, then this is centralisation where the money that is the original income of the State budget is left to local self-government units. And unfortunately, precisely because of the inequality in the development of our numerous regions, counties, cities and municipalities, we will long have to help these units of local self-government achieve much, much lower rates and cannot be sufficiently self-financed. These two proposals, or 4 if we multiply them, since the alternative proposals here include 225 units of local self-government with about a million and 300 thousand inhabitants. That is, therefore, over a third of Croatia and therefore the importance of these laws is seen. Given that the problems are still numerous, of course I, like all those who have already discussed support for the adoption of these amendments, will continue. And here, just a little more figures for the argument. In 2004, therefore, part of the income and profits that the state has given to cities and municipalities in the area of special state care is 587 million kuna, and part of the return on taxes per year, 364 million. It is mentioned, therefore, already a number of billions of kunas, and this is indeed a great help to the units of local self-government because many here have instructed their own areas, as well as to me in the Carlovac County one Lasinj, Slunj, Cetingrad, Rakovica, Saborsko, Barilovic, part of Karlovac and other units of local self-government simply could not function normally if not for this willingness and goodwill of the central state to help. Here, these few thoughts. Full support for these proposals to amend and supplement the law, and we hope that as soon as possible before inequality in the overall development that exists, we will reduce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33840	Next up, my colleague, Bisserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33841	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In view of the current course of debate, I believe that we all share a view of the multiple benefits and positive effects achieved by the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. And thus the need for its application to become permanent. Here, just a month ago, I, along with some colleagues, participated in a round table on the topic of mountain-mountan areas organized by the Primorje-Gorski County, which was attended by representatives of Istria and Lika-Senj County, as well as representatives of cities and municipalities that are in the mountain-mountan area. And the general conclusion is that its validity should become permanently the same as that of the Law on Areas of Specific State Care. This round table was held in the House of Culture in Skrad, which was rebuilt or better said again, almost entirely by the means resulting from the application of this Law. In the units of local self-government and the Primorje-Gorski County alone, there are a whole range of buildings and projects that have been launched or planned by means of funds that will be achieved by the effect of this Act because their budgets have increased by 25 to 40%. I wouldn't want to waste any more time repeating the data that my colleagues have pointed out before me. I just want to point out the satisfaction of the fact that the government recognized its positive effects and actually supported the SDP proposal with its proposal. I think at this point it doesn't matter whose variant is going to pass, but the most important thing is that the changes are made and that makes life and progress in these areas possible. Still, I'd like to look at a few details that have been ignored or accidentally missed, and I think it would be necessary to regulate them. In Chapter 2, I am talking about the Law on mountainous mountainous areas, in Chapter 2, encouraging measures for the development of mountainous mountainous areas of Article 4, I quote: "For mountainous mountainous areas a sustainable development programme for mountainous mountainous areas will be developed. The programme of sustainable development of mountainous mountainous areas brings the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the proposal of the Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, in the following text: The Ministry will develop operational programmes of incentives, the development of mountainous mountainous areas. The sustainable development programme referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of crafts, small and medium enterprises and units of local self-government in mountainous mountainous areas." It's a finished quote. That's where two details should be noticed. First, the sustainable development programme for mountainous mountainous areas has not been adopted so far, I would like to warn you that it is under Article 10. Amendment and addition of this July 2003 Act, deadline for its adoption on 23 July this year. Secondly, in the text of the cited article of the Law, it is necessary to coordinate the names or the jurisdiction of individual ministries in the sense of their current structure and the work cycle which has not been done. The same applies to Article 5a. Article 4 of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Areas of Specific State Care of 24 July 2002. Well, here's what I'm appealing to the government to do to these details that the circumstances have failed to do in terms of the update of the existing law. I, however, wanted to prepare the amendment, but according to our Rules of Procedure, it is only possible to give an amendment to articles subject to amendments to the laws and not to previous articles of the Law, so I appeal to the Government to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33842	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up, MP Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33843	Madam Vice President and colleagues, I will really try to shorten this debate because I do not want to repeat myself, but since we have united the debate on special state concerns and mountainous mountainous areas, I will share my debate in a few sentences both on one and the other. The Law on Areas of Special State Care lays down areas where the Republic of Croatia and mountainous mountain areas care and the promotion of measures for their restoration and development and, in order to eliminate the consequences of the war, the faster return of the population that lived in those areas before the Homeland War, I would even add a sentence here, and those residents who were at the time of aggression, to the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, were exiled and emigrated to the Republic of Croatia from Vojvodina, Montenegro, Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, I am pleased that the proposals of this Law actually bring about what I started to think, and that after July of the month, thank God, after July 2005, these two laws, i.e. the set of these laws, continue with their work, and in the hope that what has not been resolved so far in areas of special state interest or special state care and mountainous areas will be resolved. It's always said, it's not about something that's been solved or what's well done, it's always about what hasn't been done or done enough. I am sorry to say today about these two laws on areas of special state concern, mountainous mountain areas other than Minister Calmeta, these areas are related to other resolution ministries, and that here I would point out what I will extend to this topic, especially when it comes to exiles who have emigrated to the Republic of Croatia, I repeat from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro. We always start with the most basic when a man has a roof on his head then he is provided with the most basic thing, so the exiles and refugees who have moved in, because now the immigrants are in the Republic of Croatia, not even the housing issue has been resolved yet, and in part, yes. Mr. Minister's temporary housing resolution must have cost the state more than it would have been if the permanent housing of the exiles and refugees who have emigrated to the Republic of Croatia had been resolved, I say that a large number of refugees and exiles have not been better said to solve the problem either. And this problem is often related to the resolution of documents, i.e. Croatian citizenship, i.e. housewives and ID cards, and this road is still long not only for some but also for a large number. With their problems, I was said yesterday in the current watch not solved, i.e. it has now become a still problem of the pension allowance, which was adopted by 31 December 2004, the difference in the pension allowance of every immigrant or exile and refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro until the date already addressed, but these three months these problems came further. I must also point out when it comes to areas of special state care and mountainous mountain areas, and health insurance is not solved in such a way on paper, but in reality not all those who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia have the necessary documents and their primary protection is at stake. Here, along with these few sentences are those problems, or part of the problems that people still face, immigrants who have emigrated by their own free will, or move not by their own free will and remain in the area of special state care, i.e. mountainous mountain areas. If we want to keep them, then we have to solve these problems. As I am a representative from the electoral unit that belongs to my neighborhood, we often talk about the Imot area, or of 8 new municipalities of the Imotski region, one part of the problem has been solved, one part of the problem is not solved in the hope that these billions of dollars are allocated annually to these areas that both the standard of life of the end of Imotski and their inhabitants will be at a higher level than they have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33844	Thank you very much, colleague, but we no longer have registered representatives in the hall. I think I can... On behalf of the club? You're kidding, buddy. I think we can close the debate. Let me make a point that there are 12 MPs and one minister in the hall. One but worth it. Here, thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, and I'll see you Wednesday at 9:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-11-0.u33845	Final proposal of the Law on areas of special state concern. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please come in. You can vote. The result? I find that with 92 votes, 3 abstentions and 2 against the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work at the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. On the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on production, distribution and supply of heat energy, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 149; The Proposer of the Law is Government. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Economy, Development and Reconstruction and European Integration. You received the reports at the session. I ask Mr Vladimir Vrankovic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
