ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36730	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all, as well as the members of the government present. You received a record of the 12th and 13th sessions at the session, any objections to the minutes? No, I'm confirming that we've adopted the minutes of the 12th and 13th sessions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the adoption of the session's agenda. In addition to the call for a session, you also received a draft agenda, and you were given the final draft agenda at the session. In the final draft agenda, I included one new point, and this is the proposal for a law on plant protection, with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. Number 298. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 4 to 14 sets out the laws for which the adoption of an emergency procedure is proposed. These are the draft laws on the validation of the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Employment and Disposal of Seas, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Treaty on Loan for a Project on the Reconstruction of School Objects in the Republic of Croatia between the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Framework Agreement for a Project on the Construction of Community and Social Infrastructure in the Croatian Islands between the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, on Cooperation in the fight against Crime, the Proposal of Laws on the Laws of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Hungary, the Treaty on Public Laws on Telecommunications, the Laws of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia. I note that the laws referred to in the final draft agenda under points 11, 13 and 14 shall bear the P.Z.E. marking and on the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161. We do not vote in our Rules of Procedure and these are the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Telecommunications with the Final Proposal for a Law, the Proposal for a Hunting Law with the Final Bill of Law and the Proposal for a Law on Plant Protection Measures with the Final Proposal of the Law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? Agent Florian Boras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36731	Mr. President, on behalf of the Legislative Committee, I object to the urgency of the law on hunting. The Committee therefore considers that the conditions set out in Article 159 are not met. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Emergency Assembly, on the one hand, and on the other hand, although the Committee did not discuss this because the proposer's representative did not come to the Committee's meeting, the Committee has empowered me and the Committee considers that there are still a number of nootechnic remarks which could be removed if this Law goes into regular procedure and, in addition, comments have been made on other boards of essential nature such as the issue of the possibility of making public powers too wide for the Croatian Hunting Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36732	Okay, thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovačević please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36733	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, we have an objection to the proposal of the Hunting Law with the final bill of law, we think it would be smarter to go to first reading, we know ourselves that we had the same final proposal last year, so then we put in the first reading at the end was completely withdrawn and there remains a large number of those remarks that we spoke of.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36734	Thank you. That's the Hunting Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36735	Hunting law, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36736	Dear representative Milanka Opačić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36737	Well, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say, Mr. President, regardless of the Rules of Procedure and whatever these two laws bear the mark of harmonisation of the law with the European Union, we really believe that the law on hunting should go in first reading because of the remarks that have been made so far, but because we consider it to be a law that is very important, which should be discussed in two readings. But we would also like the emergency procedure to be removed from the Telecommunications Act, given that it is a very extensive law that determines one matter that is very important and we believe that this law should go into two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36738	Thank you very much. Let's take it in a row. To vote on an emergency procedure, we will come to each of these objections. First, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage. Please, let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36739	Since all MPs do not have keys, we propose to vote manually.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36740	Gentlemen and ladies, it is not responsible for the representatives of those who know that the agenda is determined, that they do not, and don't do that anymore, we now unfortunately have to go to the vote by raising our hands, since there is this proposal, please quorum. 105 MPs and MPs. Who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention in the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage. We vote by raising our hands, unfortunately. Thank you. Against? Unanimously with 106 votes included in the agenda under the urgent procedure of this bill. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Employment and Allocation of Seamen of 96? Thank you. Against? With 107 votes unanimously, an emergency procedure. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Framework Agreement for a project to rebuild and build school facilities between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank? Thank you. Against? With 109 votes unanimously included in the emergency procedure. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Framework Agreement for a project for the construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands between the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe? Thank you. Against? I'm unanimous with 110 votes for it. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Arab Republic of Egypt on cooperation in the fight against crime? Thank you. Against? I find that with 110 votes, it is unanimously included and this bill is on the agenda according to an emergency procedure. Who is illegal for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal? Thank you. Against? I find that this law is included in the agenda unanimously with 111 votes for the emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the surrender and acceptance of the persons to whom it is. Excuse me, Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium on police cooperation? Thank you. Against? I find that with 112 votes for unanimous and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I also find that this bill has been included unanimously with 112 votes for the agenda by emergency procedure. We have objected to the application of the emergency procedure to the law on hunting clubs of HDZ, HSP and SDP. A representative of the government, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36741	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36742	The prime minister agrees that the law is going on a regular basis. So, the Hunting Act goes into regular procedure. This proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Telecommunications Act, given that it bears the P.Z.E. code. the specific rules of procedure may be proposed by the entities to remove the emergency procedure, so that the individual representative is not legitimate so that we cannot vote on this proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda. I suggest that if you agree that I am not reading the full agenda, I should just announce that the agenda as proposed in the final draft of the law is determined by this amendment that the Hunting Act is going into regular procedure. Thank you. Then we have a fixed agenda this way. Ladies and gentlemen MPs according to article 204. paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 14th session to the next points. 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the general principles of participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community programmes, with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. No. 301, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education, Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 299, 3. Proposal for a Law on Plant Health, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 302, 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, P.Z. No. 300, 5. Proposal for a decision on the maintenance of military exercises of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia during 2005, 6. Proposal for a decision to appoint a president, vice president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, 7. Report with a proposal for measures of the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the state guarantees issued by creditors of the private company Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" d.d. River. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed two laws? I note that this Proposal for a Law on Plant Health bears the label P.Z.E. the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161; We don't vote on the rules of procedure. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36744	Honorable and Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Cub SDP, I comment on the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Charter of Fundamental Education. It is quite clear to our Rules of Procedure that only laws that comply with the European Union as well as those for which there is justifiable, in particular justified state reasons for preventing economic disturbances have reasons valid to be carried out by an urgent procedure. The argumentation of the applicant relating to this bill, which says that the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, I quote: it is necessary because of the smooth functioning of the primary school system, because the primary school system has been functioning for the last four years. On the other hand, the amendments are relatively comprehensive, covering 36 articles, but this would not be such a problem if the amendment itself did not introduce a whole new concept of school management solutions. I don't want to go further into the measure of things, but I don't think there's any reason and justification for this proposal to go through an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36745	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36746	Mr. President, as well as with regard to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education, I believe there is no need for an emergency procedure. It's a very extensive law, so a lot of big changes not only by the number of articles but also by substance. I think that if we don't already have a systematic reform of education, then at least that we can have a debate in two readings with these legal changes that have introduced a lot of serious changes. In this way, this kind of emergency procedure we actually amnesty the ministries, the minister and the executive power actually work badly. So what has failed to do with the early preparation of legal texts then makes up for sending laws into the emergency procedure. If they already do so, the Croatian Parliament should not accept it. Therefore, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, I am very strongly opposed to the emergency procedure when it comes to the Law on Fundamental Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36747	Thank you very much. Please determine the quorum. Please, let's get on with it. I'm asking for a result. We're just trying to determine the quorum. 94 recorded, so we have a quorum. When voting on an emergency procedure or voting for or against it only, there is no abstention, so let's do it in order. Who is the general principle of participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community programmes for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 95 votes in favour and one against this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. We are now voting in the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Charter of Fundamental Education, where two objections from the SDP Club and the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the PGS, are to apply the emergency procedure. Please, let's get on with it. Who's for an emergency procedure, for or against? The result? With 67 votes for, one abstention and 28 against, this bill was included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Third, there's no third because that "E" is the law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of any of the remaining proposed points? There isn't. Gentlemen, the amendments to the agenda have been established. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Before I suggest adding to the agenda of this session and before we come to the vote on the debated points, please register, to determine the quorum. Please, those who didn't sign up to register. The result? 81. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36749	Mr President, on behalf of the HSP Club this morning, Mr Rožić suggested that during today's day, the Prime Minister address this House about this final part of the discussion to see what happened and where we came about joining the European Union or starting negotiations, and you said that you would give us that information during the day. So please be nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36750	Thank you very much. I am the Prime Minister when he returned to Zagreb from the opening of the "Istrian Ipsylon" sometime after 12 hours, and now I contacted him five minutes ago at this meeting that began at 13:30. The Prime Minister believes that on the basis of the talks he had yesterday with the chief Hague prosecutor, who informed him of his views where he delivered the Croatian government's position specifically on the implementation of the action plan that everything was said and that there was no need since it was publicly presented at a press conference that he also stated that the Prime Minister had said what he had to say. That there are no other additional moments and points that would require it to address the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Prime Minister believes that there is no need to address the Croatian Parliament. Let's move on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure the addition of the agenda of the 14th session to the following points: the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the representative's term of office, Snježana Bige-Friganovic, and the start of the parliamentary mandate of her deputy, Ivana Posavec-Krivec. 2. The election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly. 4. Proposal for a law on the sale of apartments intended for housing managers. 5. Proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 And six. Annual report by the Croatian National Bank for 2004. We only have one proposal for an emergency procedure. These are the amendments and additions to the Law on Public Gathering that should be reached at any moment. Do any of the MPs have any objections to this point, agenda? I'm asking you to vote. Let's get on with it. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Please, we can vote. Amendments and additions to the Public Assembly Act. The result? 76 for, 3 abstentions, 9 against. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of any of the other proposed points? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. We're going to the current morning. Honorable representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36752	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is for the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Mr Sanader, despite what you just said in the media, has been particularly the last week of the campaign against the chief Hague prosecutor, but also against the tribunal in general. Some of the worst articles are published in government-owned journals. In one of them, although it is known that the list of Croatian indictees is closed, the editor-in-chief presents an absurd thesis that no one should be too surprised when the order of The Hague comes upon him. In another, the classical methodology of the ad-produced claim that Carla del Ponte was showing a senior official of the former government a few years ago precision was indeed at its height, she said she was not interested. In order for this undocumented and absurd claim to be found in a mass printed title on page one. Since you yourself have contributed to this campaign by claiming that the prosecution has now crossed the line, that you have spiced this attitude with a questionable reasoning that Croatia is responding as absurdly as possible to the qualifications in the indictment, can you tell me what your government has done to determine who is responsible for the murders of hundreds of Serb elders after the Storm. Who is responsible for the burning of thousands of Serbian houses after the Storm and for the perpetrators to be brought to justice and punishment. Because if the extended text of the indictment against Cermak and Markac brings us closer to the charge of collective guilt and there is a cure, and that medicine is in your hands, and by the way, I also agree with you that everything is based on the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36753	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36754	Mr. Banac, you have made several statements that I cannot agree with, but I will answer them. First of all, the Government has no intention of or laughing in democracy and in the rule of law in any newspaper's editorial policy. We've never done it before, we've never intended it until now, we're not going to do it in the future. I would like to know in which way you would have been meddling in the editorial policy of any Croatian media and whether it is a Europe of common values that I hope you are taking. For me, it's not Europe of common values, it's the first. Secondly, when I said that the prosecution had crossed the line, I said that because the prosecution was not the Supreme Court of Justice, the International Criminal Court in The Hague, but only one party in the process, and that is what we often forget in Croatia, and that party in the proceedings has the right to do so, to say whatever they want. But when he says whatever he wants, he has to count on the more absurd accusation as it is in this case that "Storm" is absolutely absurd, then he has to count on it to be easier to bring that absurd indictment down. That's what I said. That's what I stand for today. And third, since the Hague prosecution is one party in the process, the defence is equal to the Hague prosecution and why we should be too excited about what the prosecution says, and we would not be looking forward to the defence saying that it is pointless when they are at the same level in court, and that is something that we must say to the Croatian public regardless of the left, right, right center, left center. The Hague prosecution is only a party to the proceedings, the defence is equally legal to it, and Croatia will take advantage of what is available, and that is the instrument of a friend of the court who is not party to the proceedings but helps the judicial council in reaching the truth and that is what we are going to do and that is what I said today. And in that sense, when I said that the Hague prosecutor's office overstepped, we said that we would continue to cooperate with them, I said that earlier in my exposé, in the report, in the information, and that first we would try to get the prosecution to drop such absurd charges. Because I repeat once again, "Storm" was not a criminal enterprise with the aim of ethnic cleansing Serbs from Croatia but rather a magnificent, military-reduced operation that we are all proud of and which enters in gold letters into Croatian history because "Storm" has been shown that Croatian people know how to take care of themselves and solve their problems regardless of who imposed these problems or which war imposed them. As far as this is concerned, why doesn't my government do something against those who have committed wicked acts and in the defense war, the Homeland War. So what does the government have to do with it as executive authority? It is a matter of justice, the judiciary has taken it, there is a "White Book", more than 4000 has been prosecuted for it, because of these arsones and everything that happened after "Storm," but it is not "Storm". The "storm" is great and no one can cast a shadow on it. If there have been individual illegal acts and crimes they should be prosecuted by the rule of law and therefore I stand up for the rule of law, not the Government. Mr. Representative, the Government cannot do this because it would be a interference in the judiciary, and we have also defined ourselves as a trio of authorities, in executive, legislative and judicial terms. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36755	Dear Representative Ivo Banac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36756	I am not satisfied with the answer, but I must say that Mr. Prime Minister has said something very important to claim, which is that he really does not intend to change relations in the judiciary that are the cause of these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36757	Dear Representative Anto Djapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36758	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and Croatian Government. We are witnessing full affirmation of the Montenegrin Chetnik movement both by parts of the international community and by the great world powers that bestow on medals the highest ideologist in the Chetnik and Duke Draža Mihajlovic, and also by perhaps worrying, perhaps more, the fact that the current Serbian government is also practically through legislation and through official and other titleships identifying Chettice with the Liberation Movement and giving it extremely positive contents. This does not surprise us, but we are interested in what the government intends to do in the direction of further developing good neighbourly relations with Serbia-Montenegro, because at this point it is obvious that in Serbia the official policy is a pro-ahead policy, as it stands behind such a policy, as the government intends to continue to act on the visa regime for citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as deepening good neighbourly relations as one of Croatia's conditions for better international status and recognition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36759	Thank you. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36760	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Djapic, first of all, on behalf of the Croatian government, I condemn and reject all that is going on in the re-affirmation of the Chetnik movement in Serbia-Montenegro. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the government also protested with the United States for this handover and the medal that President Truman made another 48. Dear Mihajlovic, we have protested harshly against this. I personally invited the ambassador of the United States to talk and protest sharply. That's what our ambassador to Washington did. It's about that medal. When it comes to the Chetnic movement, we also protested sharply when a Chetn movement with anti-fascist movement was evened in the Belgrade assembly. Since the Chetnic movement was both in Croatia and committed a terrible crime, that it has been colluding with Nazism and fascism, I suggest that in the Parliament and the Government can submit a proposal, we bring a statement about what was a Chetnic movement and that we tell our truth, or what we think of the Chetnic movement because I believe we cannot remain without an answer to that. So what those in Serbia think about it is none of our business because we don't want to interfere with internal affairs. But as soon as it has implications, and it has in Croatia, then we must bring our position on the Chetnik movement in Croatia and say that the Chetnik movement was the same as fascism and Nazism and that it has nothing to do with antifascism and so I suggest that we consider all the expensive clubs together, interparty committees or something to make a proposal for a statement condemning a Chetnic movement that is equal to fascism and Nazism because it committed terrible crimes and colluded with the Hitlerian and Muslim Nazism and fascism. And in that sense, that's my suggestion. As for bilateral relations with Serbia-Montenegro, we will maintain these bilateral relations further, because we believe that there are forces in Serbia-Montenegro that view the Chetnik movement as well as we do and if we can help maintain these bilateral relations, that these political forces win, then good bilateral relations and work on it are worth it. Finally work on the full political stabilisation of Southeast Europe because it is in our interest. It's about our borders. And in this respect, we will closely monitor the development of events in Serbia-Montenegro and react if we should with the visa regime.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36761	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36762	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Prime Minister. We are partially satisfied with the part of the answer, but we hold that the continuation of bilateral relations should be much more reserved because the legislation is Serbian Chettice maximumly affirmed. We support the possibility of making such a statement, but it would be good to bring such a statement both in connection with the extension of the Hague indictment in that case.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36763	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Excuse me, yes, Željka Antunović. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36764	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is for the Prime Minister. Over the last year and a half at all levels of state administration, the relocations of officials and tenants from existing to new jobs have been frequented. Such transfers are clearly prescribed by law and can only be carried out for the purpose of the service and under the prescribed conditions, approximately within the same group of jobs. The practice, Mr. President, is unfortunately very different. Officials with best grades are moved to low-income jobs and are professionally demoted, and this is done without competition most often by people with controversial qualities and rarely from retirement. In this way, the law and the rights of employees are knowingly and drastically violated. It is even worse that such illegal solutions are confirmed by the Central State Administration Office, which is competent to monitor the legality of the solution. Mr. President, you are verbally in favour of strengthening the rule of law and respecting the law, and every day you support a conscious and deliberate violation of the law by your ministers. The final result is also the strengthening of legal uncertainty, negative personnel selection and the increasing work of the state administration. Why do you break the law to the harm of employees, and how long will you do so?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36765	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36766	Well, if that were the case, but it wasn't. Madam, first of all, I would like to ask you, of course, to direct this through written channels, to send me examples on the basis of which you made those statements, and we will examine these examples and see. Is this about the incompetent people we've changed or is this about what you're saying? Personally, I am always in favour of the state administration and the general public administration at all levels of the municipality to the state being a service to the citizens and not being by any other key by any other criterion. It is therefore a principle that must be implemented and implemented by the Central State Administration Office. So, if you have such examples, I ask you to direct them to me, but I do not accept the government's flat-rate meal, and I particularly do not accept, and I must reject, despite my due respect for you as agents, I must reject qualifications and so vigorously that I or any of my ministers violate the law. It's simply not true, and that statement borders really with a very, very, very, very, very dangerous opinion. Because that would mean that if you have proof that you have to withdraw both the consequences and when you made that claim in the Croatian Parliament, then you should, if someone violates the law and prosecutes it. Otherwise, you'd better apologize. But if there are any cases, please direct them to me and we'll investigate him.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36767	Dear representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36768	I am not satisfied with the answer because the answer is actually a hypocritical attitude of the government towards its employees and their rights. The evidence, Mr. President, is in the judgments of the Administrative Court that you may request, and you may ask for it from your minister. The evidence is in the Customs Administration where, for example, trainees with professional exams and excellent grades were sent home, and you receive and schedule a competition for others. Your evidence is in the police department where yet the rebuttal of illegal resolutions is all happening in the atmosphere personally, extorting evidence and so forth. It's also about abuse of position, and now I'm going to give you an example, so you can check it out where the head of the Customs Administration hires and baselessly placed on the inadequate position of his teacher's nephew, who he has mastered and who he wants to doctor with.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36769	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36770	Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Branko Vukelic. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you know, but for this year 2005. Croatia has lost its ability to withdraw funds from the EU pre-accession programmes, which relate to the area of employment. In other words, this means that in a year and a half the Croatian government, and your ministry, which you are headed by, has done nothing to get those funds for this year. In fact, I remind you, these funds were not obtained because no one in your ministry in the government made an effort to draw up plans, programmes and employment measures that were the condition for Croatia to receive these funds for this year. From our permanent mission of the Republic of Croatia to the European Community there are warnings that, for the following year, only a very limited theoretical opportunity to obtain these funds is available. Between a series of programmes in the field of social employment policy, Croatia had the possibility of an area of gender equality, social inclusion, anti-discrimination, promotion of employment, and no programme was created. The funds remained in the European Union funds. My question to you as minister is, is there anything you intend to start working on in that area? And of course, secondly, who will be responsible, who will bear the responsibility that nothing has been done in a year and a half on this matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36771	Thank you. Economy Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36772	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Representative. Thank you for this question because, several times already from the union ranks, this incorrect information has been placed in public. And so, I want to tell you on this occasion and my public opinion, therefore, that absolutely incorrect information is especially when spoken, and it has also been talked about the PHAR programme and the means that we can withdraw from that programme. So it's absolutely incorrect information that we haven't asked for funds, that we're not ready to withdraw funds because simply the truth is completely different. We, therefore, are doing the job absolutely up-to-date and actively and by the end of the 5th month, so by the end of May this year will be defined a memorandum of consent for community programmes. Therefore, Community measures in the area of employment concluded by the Community and the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of this memorandum and in accordance with Community conditions, Croatia will participate in the employment action programmes. The second thing that is very important and important, you know that we have brought the National Employment Action Plan, followed by the operational implementation measures of the Plan, which is discussed together with the social partners and practically in the final phase of adoption. And this National Employment Action Plan, as well as the operational measures resulting from it, are absolutely in line with the European Union's programmes, so with all those projects and programmes that are exactly and through which it is possible to obtain funds from the European Union. It is not true, therefore, that we will miss any chance of funding from the European Union, but we will realise it both this year and next years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36773	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36774	Mr. Minister, I think I've made myself clear. For this year, the funds remain unused. For the next year there is a warning of our permanent mission only a theoretically very limited possibility that we will be able to withdraw these funds, because it is not only a plan of measures but it involves much more. And when we talk about the national employment action plan, please, that national employment action plan was prepared and completed by the end of 2003, and now there should be an additional question why you waited a year and a half for this national plan to be formally adopted, it was formally adopted as far as I know at one of the government meetings at the end of last year, and now the month is May 2005. So, it says that for this year the funds are not used and that for next year they are very limited, and I must remind you that you know that only Slovenia, only for the field of information descriptiveness of its unemployed, has withdrawn 5.6 million euros. Not to mention, for example, programmes concerning entrepreneurship and which at this time weigh 450m euros and wait for someone to start working in Croatia. Of course, Mr. President, I'm also looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36775	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36776	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to refer my question to the Prime Minister. If the Republic of Croatia had good minority laws, it had become a corny phrase. In implementing these laws, unfortunately, we have done very little, sometimes almost nothing. The Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities is implemented in a section that worked until 1990. Three times in this assembly, competent ministers have since 2000 asked a question related to educational advisers, although between 3 and 5 workers with underwork hours have so far done nothing. The counselors don't work, the problems of minority education remain. Every year, when we adopt a budget, we warn of a lack of funds for textbooks, and she and so small in the competent ministry are spent unintendedly, non-transparently, on the edge of crime and no one is responsible for it. The issue of information in the languages of national minorities has not been resolved, and we have asked you Mr. Prime Minister in this assembly, but to date the same has not been resolved because HRT and the local media do not want it, and the government that is responsible under the law does not want anything. The statutes of municipalities and cities five years after the adoption of the first two laws on minorities, and after 2 and a half years since the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities are not harmonised, no one controls it and local sheriffs continue to enforce their laws. Bilingualism and where it is not questionable is not carried out because it does not know who is in charge of certain actions. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you when will the Government or the ministries start implementing minority laws in practice and which the ministry will finally control the compliance of the statutes of units of local self-government with constitutional law and other minority laws, as individuals are already seeking international protection which certainly damages the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, especially at the time of the battle to join the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36777	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Here you go, Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36778	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. I know the problem above all of the discrepancies of the statutes we've been waiting to say that we've been in and in time pressure, there's one objective reason for preparing for local elections, now it's time to finally settle it in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and all municipalities will have to coordinate, it will be taken into account by the central state office, and as far as the ministries are concerned, I will take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36779	Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36780	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, but I think that too much time has passed, that specific counsellors for education who are not looking for large funds could have been resolved, that equally the funds that are not intended to be spent by someone must be held accountable and please take care of who is responsible for spending the funds specifically in the Ministry of Education, Sports Science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36781	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36782	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Vice Presidents and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the Minister of Tourism, Transport and Development, Bozidar Kalmeti. This is the same question from Vukovar twice. I'm asking what's wrong with renting and buying apartments. All in Croatia have used the right to a privileged ransom and the victims of the victims of the fallen Vukovar are still deprived of that right today. We ask for an urgent and urgent answer because the Vukovars have the right to do so, we ask that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, within a reasonable time, allow the citizens of Vukovar to answer this important question and the solution to that problem. Because of the importance and seriousness of the matter, Mr. Minister, I'm looking for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36783	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36784	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, Mr. Representative requested an answer in writing clearly that we would deliver it, but here's the thing very briefly. We work intensively to address this problem, not only the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, but also the State Attorney's Office and the Central State Office for State Property. Namely, there is a fundamental and key problem that this property, and the apartments that are not still in state property, should be transferred to say so in state property, and then the issue can be resolved afterwards. Otherwise, during the summer of this year, the ministry will begin issuing a lease contract for users who have established the right to housing. But here's a complete answer with all the other data we'll deliver as the representative requested in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36785	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36786	Thank you, Mr. Minister, I'm pleased, but this is a matter of all the Werewolves and I ask you to settle this matter quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36787	Ladies and gentlemen, our discussion from the gallery is being followed by members of the Croatian World Congress from Canada, so let's welcome them. Dear Representative Bozica Šolić, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36788	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Mr. Branko Vukelic. Dear Mr. Minister, what the Ministry is doing to get out of the difficulties of the textile, leather, shoe industry. The measures envisaged for the adaptation of this economic branch in view of the entry into the European Union are, in fact, being taken into competition on the European market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36789	Minister of Economy Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36790	Thank you, Mr. President. As for the textile industry, the leather industry, the footwear industry, I think the situation is generally known as the industrial branch, that economic branch in difficulty, not this year or two, but for ten years the difficulty and for goods coming to the east, above all, China is also felt in the textile industry throughout Europe. However, unfortunately, the textile industry, the leather and shoe industry in the past years, I would like to say first and foremost in the last term of the government the former was in some way neglected or without any concrete measures of encouragement and support, and therefore we have been working on a programme to restructure the textile, leather and shoe industries since the very beginning of the term of office and since last year, and as you know for the first time in the budget, 20 million kunas have been provided to support the restructuring of the textile, leather, shoe industry in Croatia. These funds will soon be referred to the Government of the tender criteria, which will then be announced and will primarily be intended for development, for the introduction of new technologies. So, for all that it takes to raise the level of competitiveness of our textiles, leather and footwear and to actually prepare it for what is ahead of them and that is one competitive market, one competition in Europe and in markets clearly all over the world, and only here on this occasion I want to say. So these measures that we are forecasting for this year are not only one time in 2005 but measures that would last two to three years with such means, first of all, I repeat, aimed not at solving existing losses but at introducing new technologies to develop brands. Therefore, for the research and development of the market, so to adapt such companies to the market conditions of business and competition that are needed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36791	Dear representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36792	Thank you very much. Minister, I am pleased with your answer and broad explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36793	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36794	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Croatia's agriculture is in an unsustainable bad situation because it is being destroyed by excessive imports. We warned almost a year ago about signing protocol seven. It was said it wasn't going to happen. Unfortunately, we're all witnessing it today. Unfortunately, poor agrarian politics without a real vision and the idea unfortunately suits it. I thought I'd talk about imports that last year are the largest of the independence of the Republic of Croatia. Exports dropped 6% but yesterday's statements, Mr. Minister Cobankovic and the invitations of the peasants made me change the subject. You claim that imports of milk and milk products have decreased. Trends in production continued but the increase in production was not due to market disturbances. That's what you said. The peasants call me and claim that milkmen keep them informed of the end of the purchase of milk. The peasants claim they will be forced to stop producing milk if the ransom ceases. It's clear to everyone. Without ransom, no one produces. The incentives for dairy cows have been reduced and in villages where ransom stops, I think we're aware of what's going to happen to these villages. You are responsible for saying that the number of family holdings produced by milk has fallen from 59 thousand to 50 grand and apparently because of this end of the ransom, it will be even smaller. So I ask you, at a time when all of Croatia is looking for one man, I ask if anyone in the government is taking care of the Croatian village where 9,000 peasant economies have gone missing? What measures will be taken not to continue? We'll experience the depopulation of the village, people will leave. Unfortunately, I know these are small economies, people who have three cows, etc. But they don't, I assure you, what to live on, and we need to take care of them and find certain measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36795	Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36796	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! This is a very important problem, problems and rural development and the development of the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia. But, Mr. Representative, you and I also know very well that the inevitable decrease in the number of dairy producers, that our agriculture must go in the direction of rounding and that we, with other measures, are addressing the issue from the elderly to the non-commercial agricultural holdings. You also know and you have worked on this by implementing the reform that Croatia cannot maintain the existing level and number of family economies, call family economies because you need to know that these are not even clean family economies, that they are mixed economies and so on. To me, this question is not to say it in some way a little bit and funny. We must lead the strategy for the development of Croatian agriculture and we lead it in this direction. Milk is one of the strategic products and normally all the instruments at our disposal are doing our best to increase the production of milk. And in this context, for the first four months, Croatia has an increase of 10% of production, by 10% of milk production which has not happened in the last 20 years that we have had so much increase in milk production. On the other hand, it created the assumption that milk imports decreased by 65% during the first four months. The price of milk in Croatia is adequate and is higher than the level of prices in the countries of our environment. Support for milk is much more than in the countries of the European Union and in the countries of our environment. The development of the cattle programme, which is a function of increasing production and meat and milk in the Republic of Croatia, goes with its dynamics. The first loans were settled, credit agreements were signed and requirements regularly came and they were processed either in the central commission or in the HBOR. So there's no concern about the issue of milk. Yesterday I had a meeting with processors and representatives of the dairy industry and with the biggest but also for us very important mini milkers. So, we'll settle the question, there won't be any spilling of milk. There would be no milk spilling now, I say responsibly, that there was no choice and there would be no problem with producing or buying milk.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36797	Mr. Secretary, I must say, it is not appropriate for you to qualify the agent's question with a funny one. That's what I'm asking you to do, and I'm warning the ministers and members of the government not to do it because it's not appropriate to communicate that way, so I'm asking you to take care of it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36798	I'd like to, if I really said that, I'd like to apologize, I don't mean in that context.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36799	Thank you very much. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36800	Thank you very much, Mr. President, especially for this protection. I won't say what's funny, which is tragic, let everyone figure out who was listening here. But I'll say, unfortunately, the problem is small producers who got fired so they couldn't sell milk anymore. And you know it! I'm glad you said it would work out. But if that doesn't work out, be ridiculous, these people have nothing to live on, and that's their only income. Take care of that, because unfortunately, a large, large number of such people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36801	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36802	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader. The adoption of the Law implementing the Constitutional Court Decision of 18 May 1998 established a debt religious relationship between the State and a large number of pensioners and their successors in this House last July 2004. The settlement of compensation through the work of a special fund is foreseen. The last negotiations on the assets of the fund and the compensation model were held more than a month ago. I recall the deadline for realization is August 5, 2005. The point of the question is next. In view of those legal deadlines, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia will make a decision on the reservation of assets for the Pension Fund, i.e. when it will establish the Fund, and when the damaged pensioners will receive notice of the amount of compensation that the State is obliged to provide for them. I stress that the state is in debt and citizens believers regardless of the fact that the Croatian party of pensioners is more or less involved in this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36803	Thank you. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36804	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, I am pleased to say that this syntagm used by damaged citizens means damaged pensioners, that my government, in cooperation with the Croatian Party of Retired and Retired Associations, is working to correct the past and such a relationship with our people, is about our fathers, mothers to whom the State has a debt and this is undeniable, and we have jointly dealt with this great trauma of Croatian society. Since we have passed laws setting clear deadlines, deadlines and limits, we will continue to work, a joint commission by the government representatives and will continue you for the next week with work, and we believe that within the legal deadlines we can respect what we have jointly decided and made, and that is to correct our pensioners from this injustice and improve their material position. That's what, that's the position my government stands in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36805	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36806	I am satisfied with this response and with the public promise that we will end the job within the legal deadlines set even though the Croatian party of pensioners is, we have impatient members for a reason and we believe that we are seriously late in the dynamics of the implementation of this project which is important for the functioning of Croatia as a rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36807	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36808	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Mr. Bozidar Kalmeti, Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Reconstruction. In Croatia today, there is a new practice that I think needs to be found an adequate answer. Namely, in hotel houses whose owners or management are foreign citizens, communication happens between employees, workers of these hotel houses and the same administration because of the lack of knowledge and ignorance of the Croatian language, the administration itself is trying to take place in one of the foreign languages. It is quite clear and logical that the staff who comes in communication with foreign guests and in the description of their workplace is communicating in a foreign language that they, of course, must know foreign language and it is clear and should not be held to debate. However, it is not normal for some workers who do not come at all to communicate with guests to speak in a foreign language within that same hotel house because the manager of the same house does not know the Croatian language. I think there really needs to be an adequate answer, enough to see what practice is in other countries where you can't even get a work permit if you don't know that language of that country. Therefore, we need to see how they actually respond because many people who do not know simply did not finish school and they do not need the knowledge of foreign language to do their job must communicate in a foreign language. Here I am begging you, Mr. Minister, to answer this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36809	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36810	Thank you and I thank the representative for this question. I was talking about this problem at the union's request in Opatija when we had the Committee to prepare and implement the tourist season. This is one problem that has become common in all those hotel houses where the owners are not Croatian citizens and the practice is to impose, to communicate between the employer and workers in the foreign language but also all the notifications, ads, are on the advertising board in a foreign language. It is clear that this is inadmissible and that it should be reacted to regardless, I agree with you that all our hotel and otherwise tourist employees speak languages and it is good to speak and have to be further educated but it is necessary because of their communication with our dear guests who come to Croatia. However, Article 12 of the Treaty on European Union on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed the official use of the Croatian language and Latin letter, and they must all stick to it. If this practice continues, I believe that it will not, because we have talked a few times about it, and here is today an opportunity from your question and from what I say is unacceptable, but if it continues, then we will be forced to regulate it by legal means, clearly through the Government and then refer to the parliamentary procedure of certain legislative proposals, which will then make it even stronger to define that the use of Croatian language and Latin letter must be used in official communication in Croatian companies in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36811	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36812	Thank you for your response. I am pleased because this problem is clearly recognized by the employees themselves in the profession, I hope the ministry will lead but obviously it is not only necessary that this ministry but also that other ministries that are involved in the inspector's work take care of it, so in that sense I believe that you will act in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36813	Thank you. Honorable representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36814	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr Bozidar Kalmeta, and it refers to the age of cargo vehicles. These days, however, Slavonic carriers are again threatening roadblocks unless certain provisions of the new Road Transport Act are amended, and in particular an article relating to the age of freight vehicles, where this is limited to 18 years. How do I come from a county where more than 2,000 carriers are covered by this provision of the law, I would like to ask you, will you insist on that provision, even though it might endanger the existence of the family of these entrepreneurs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36815	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36816	I thank Mrs. Representatives. On the basis of this proposal for a road transport law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications of the Croatian Parliament has made an observation and a proposal which was then unanimously accepted at that meeting of the Committee, which is that, in a similar way, it is established for private vehicles that the minimum age limit for imports of buses and freight vehicles is established. It was a committee proposal, then it was accepted and it entered the law and what you're saying is that trucks can't be over 18 years old, and buses that carry students to a school of 10 years. I agree that such a provision is quite rigorous and that it puts a whole series of carriers, and according to our lists there are about 18% older than 20 years and about 19% from 15 to 19 years and that it is impossible within a year to bring it together, that it is impossible to find such financial means to restore that fleet. However, I think that whatever this is, this is good because it will force the thinking and certain activities of all carriers to rejuvenate their fleet, which is good and because of them, it is good for traffic safety and it is good at the end of the day and for other traffic participants. But we will monitor the situation, and if there is a need to do some law intervention in terms of or extensions for another year or I don’t know what, we’ll do it anyway. So we will not question the existence of these people who have such vehicles that under the current law do not meet the conditions, or are older than 18 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36817	Honorable representative Irena Ahel, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36818	Thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36819	Thank you. Honourable representative Plasimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36820	Your Honor, I would like to send a letter to Minister Vukelic. There has been a deterioration of all macroeconomic indicators, development has slowed down, economic growth in the first quarter at the lowest level in the last four years. The debt of the country is growing, exports are low and now covers barely 42% of imports. The balance of payments deficit continues to deepen. Internal debt increased by more than 20%. Individence is increasing. The State is late to pay its bills to entrepreneurs, as well as to the State and the Employment Service late with the payment of those benefits to employees of defenders and the use of other measures. You recently replaced the main state strategist Dr. Grandma. What moves do you intend, Mr. Minister, to suppress the lack of effective economic policy and the lack of any economic strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36821	Thank you. Minister Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36822	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Parliamentarian cannot agree first and agree with your findings. At the beginning of the statistics is strange, you obviously read it in a different way. Indicators that have often been spoken about, and at the beginning of this year, above all for the past year, because only then and only these first months of this year can we talk about the results in 2004, they speak quite differently and the opposite of what you said. So for the first time in 2004, when we speak, and you mentioned exports, we note one significant change in trends in terms of export growth faster than import growth. And for the first time, I'm going to remind you once again in 2003, we ended up covering exports at 43%, and in 2004, at 48%. So if we are talking about export-import trends, then we can see that these indicators are good or better in 2004, and let's also wait for this trend that I was talking about for 2004, it continues this year, and I am confident that it will reach an even greater percentage than it was in 2004. And I could talk really long and much about all the economic policy measures that are being implemented here, so I'm just going to say a little bit here, so if we're talking about the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, you, too, Mr. Representative, are very aware of the measures we've taken through this, and you and your city have been involved in this, and you're taking part in what I congratulate and I think that's good. We have here, we could speak very exact indicators related to crafts, significant growth in the number of crafts, thus the number of employees in crafts or small and medium-sized companies, we created the most favourable conditions for crediting small and medium-sized enterprises with only 2 to 4% interest. Speaking of which, I mentioned now both in the previous answer and in the textile industry and the measures we are taking here. It will be likely and has announcements and questions, so I will not talk about the restructuring problems in the shipbuilding sector, about what is being done. So I think that when we talk about the economic situation in Croatia no one can say today that it is good, but when we talk about trends in the indicators of the economic situation in Croatia in 2004, then we have to say that for the first time in many years we have positive indicators and when we talk about exports, when we talk about stopping debt growth, when we talk about liquidity, about everything that is important and important for the economy. Therefore, I believe in economic terms that this trend will continue and that we will come to a far better situation economically than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36823	Honourable representative Plasimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36824	Well, it's totally irrelevant how you or I interpret the same statistical indicators. What's important is that the citizens think of it, and the citizens said their own when they whistled those indicators that were presented to them in Maksimir. The fact is that citizens are getting worse and worse alive and the fact is that for the money they get for pay, they can no longer buy as much as they could before their cost of living increases faster than pay increases. I would like your prognosis to be realized, indeed, that in the future these indicators are different and that together we can interpret the indicators, so I urge you also in this direction to start solving problems, not just describing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36825	Thank you. Honorable representative of Mato Church, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36826	Minister Ljubicic is not here, so respectable Secretary of State Ante Zvonimira Golem. The issue refers to HZZO in relation to the Croatian Post Office. The Croatian Post Bank has served in the privatisation of how and how much, it has been ruined. To survive as the only Croatian-owned bank in 2001./2002. She's been rehabilitated for years. So for the first time in privatisation, citizens lost when everything that's been created for many years disappeared, and the second time when they paid for the craftsmanship of privatisation. Thus, only in July 2001, 860 million kunas were spent to resuscitate the Croatian postal bank. However, a significant additional aid to the bank, and there is now an emphasis, was that deposits with the CNB were then part of payments to encourage agriculture, compensation to defenders, a significantly higher number of pensioners, maternity benefits and others, aimed at going as state money through that state bank and all this, as well as the model work of the bank's administration, led to the bank starting to operate successfully, profitablely. By mid-2003, the bank had accumulated 160 million kuna profits. Of course, management was immediately replaced by the arrival of the new government. But I understand Mr. Ljubicic when he says he doesn't know how to pay back 800 million for drugs, but the most important thing, of course, is for the government and the Ministry of Finance not to come this year. But the question is, on the radio we listen to ads that HZZO calls for certain state fees to be raised through other banks, not through the Croatian Post Bank. Mr. Golem, why is HZO doing this? Why is the state money coming out of the only state bank in Croatia and spreading through foreign banks and rather, across the radio, citizens are referring to it?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36827	Thank you. Secretary of State Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36828	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. So in this question of yours, I am looking at actually two things that led this Ministry and Government to solve problems that have accumulated in the Croatian Health Insurance Office. Debts that have been pressed and disabled throughout the situation by the entire programme of measures needed to address the situation and to introduce market discipline and rationalise spending in the Croatian Health Insurance Institute have in some way required that this negative trend be stopped at some point means an increase and an accumulation of debt so that the results can be manifested. Through this way it was clear that it was going to look at the most favourable ways and how it was best to find solutions to this. In the part that we have positive results here we can freely say they are shown in this first part when more pressure on the debt towards the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and Croatian Health Insurance is reduced. As for using through which institutions, the institution of the Croatian Post Office is, in any case, also a partner to the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will surely be more said by the Minister of Finance. But at this point, because of what was needed, a decision was made that way. Since this is a complex issue, I suggest that if you are not satisfied, I will provide you with an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36829	Honorable representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36830	I'm not happy about the next one. Namely, I didn't even get an answer. The money that the state has is huge compared to the money that we all have in this country from entrepreneurs to others. That, of course, is often available by individuals in the apparatus of the state. And now before the user gets that money, and they are numerous, for example, from pensioners to births, teachers and so forth, that state money is well twisted and made other money. Why should it spin in other banks and not in the Croatian state bank? That's the question. I don't care about the written or any other answer, but this isn't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36831	Thank you. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36832	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer the question to Mr. Bozidar Kalmeti, Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Mr. Minister, what you have taken to determine the cause of the "Kill" naval accident when a Hungarian citizen died as a member of the crew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36833	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36834	Well, within its jurisdiction, the Ministry certainly reacted without delay and made insights and inspections. What we found in the shortest lines was first that the regatta was not reported at all and maintained without signing up to the competent port captain's office. Secondly, it is also very important and important that the ships involved in the regatta were not included in the Croatian register of yachts or related yachts did not have a certificate of ability. The Croatian Register of Ships has not examined them. That's another thing. They did not even register with the responsible port captainate in Sibenik so that there was a whole series of gaps which unfortunately ended in tragedy, as the public is known by turning the yacht, falling out of the column and one fatal, fatal case. We've initiated a misdemeanor procedure against the skipper. We have also initiated a misdemeanor against the company that organized the regatta, and has not reported to the competent port captain so that these proceedings are ongoing, and whether any other state body, whether it is the State's Attorney's Office or who is going to initiate which proceedings and whether or not they will find a basis for the initiation of the proceedings, I can clearly not go into it, nor am I so able to give my own court. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36835	Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36836	Thank you for your response. I believe that, apart from comfort, all our guests should have, they should also be provided with safety in maritime transport. So from controlling whether they are trained to transport at sea to all those conditions that we as a state are obliged to ensure that our guests feel comfortable, to return with, happy and satisfied with their houses and of course to return to us as guests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36837	Thank you. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36838	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Branko Vukelic. Dear Mr. Minister, in 2004, the company "ACI Marina" finished its business with a million, with 1.51 million kuna losses. Just a year before that, the same company was dealing with 6.7 million kuna profits. That's not how you started Croatia. You turned it around. Explain to the public how you managed to destroy such a successful company that in just a year from a positive business, it turns into a loser?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36839	Thank you. Minister Branko Vukelic, respectively. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36840	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, I would like to list here dozens of examples of positive and good companies, companies that have really been launched, where business is far better than it was in 2004. So from a series and our shipyards or that area where they might be the biggest difficulties. So I think that this question of yours is focused on the situation in a particular company, the situation, the state, the moves, the measures, then it's something that requires a more complete analysis, so I'm going to forward all these details of the specific business, business, measures and the results of the business in writing, but it's certainly one thing that in our economy in a number of businesses in these years and a half of the projects are being launched and that this "Actually in the morning" list all these companies and companies that are launched in a good sense, developmental sense in Croatia today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36841	Dear Representative Antešić Zdenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36842	Thank you very much. Appreciateing all your sweet talk, I would only draw one parallel with the company "National Park Plitvice Lakes". In 1995, the company showed a loss of 55 million kuna in outstanding liabilities. According to the 2002 court ruling, the loss was 53 million marks, stressing marks, with hotel renovation costs, some hotels rose from the estimated 13 and a half to 18 and a half million marks. At the end of 2002, a new administration came. She left behind 36 million kuna profits. And for the reward, you replaced her and set up the same one that made these losses. I hope Plitvice, the jewel of world heritage, will not experience the fate of the "ACI".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36843	Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36844	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, respected Mrs. Marina Matulović Dropulic. Madam Minister, you are also aware that several counties of northwestern Croatia have established a public municipal waste management facility. Of course, if she had not yet had the opportunity to revive the facility, there was already much dust in the public especially in one part of the town of Križevci, because even petitions were collected as one of the possible locations where this waste would have been taken care of and the location of Gunjak in the Catastrian municipality of Rascani, in the municipality of Sveti Ivan Žabno in Koprivnica-križevci County. Since I personally don’t know what was done in view of the papers needed to make such a place even more planned and later built. I ask you most nicely to answer me where it came from with the making of the paper needed to assess whether this location is at all similar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36845	Thank you. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36846	Thank you very much. Ms. MPs, ladies and gentlemen, as most of you probably know four counties in northwestern Croatia, this is Krapina-Zagorska, Varazdinska, Međimurje and Koprivnica-Kristeva County, established a public institution for the disposal of municipal and non-hazard technical waste, and this institution has started working and has made certain documents needed as a previous procedure in order to move forward. However, what neither the public institution did nor made a specific proposal, nor these four counties, is that they did not in the spatial plan of the Koprivnica-Kristevci County in general predict the location for the construction of such a waste management centre, although they calculated that they could possibly do it in a different way. 29.3.2005. St. Ivan Žabno brought his spacious, so the Municipality of St. Ivan Žabno brought her spatial plan of arrangements where she established this location Gunjak as a dump, but she did not say because for herself or means only for her own needs or for the needs of these four counties. Therefore, so long as certain research works are not done, until complete documentation has been made, until an environmental impact study can be assessed, and at the end of the normal county or Koprivnica-Crysing County has been decided and amended and the spatial plan of its county has been completed, there is no possibility that such a waste management centre will be built in that location. We have a petition of 960 people for that. People must be aware that they simply have to get rid of waste in their county. I said from day one that it would be very difficult for four counties, although we would all be very happy to decide that it would be in one location. However, we have completed the waste management strategy. It will arrive in the Parliament before summer, where we have made it possible to organize waste management centres in each county, because we think it will be much easier to implement it then than when in four, three or six counties are organised in one location although it would certainly be a better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36847	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36848	Thank you, Madam Minister. I am extremely pleased with your response, but we cannot be satisfied with the state of waste disposal. But here we are, hoping it will be settled in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36849	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36850	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members of the government. I'm asking the most respected Minister Branko Vukelic. Mr. Minister, the Croatian Government is in charge of 800 million kuna in Zagreb Bank so that HZZO can pay suppliers their medicines. In this regard, of course, Minister Ljubic admits openly that he does not know when or how the debt will return. So he doesn't even know how much debt it's gonna cost. The banks are happy. In the first quarter, they placed twice as much money in the Croatian economy, of course they don't need it, because they have achieved a safe placement in the Croatian state, so I'm surprised that the prime minister is surprised and appeals to Croatian banks. This isn't the answer. This is the illusion of a solution or delaying a problem. I'm curious, so why are you doing this? You trade one HZZO believer for another worse and more expensive for the debtor, then you leave the economy without the bank's credit potential. Do you really think banks will react to the prime minister's appeals, given the situation in the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36851	Thank you. Minister Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36852	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarian, I will answer that part of the question that is being touched by my portfolio, my ministry, about the HZZO and all that is related to the post is the area of the second minister and ministry. But this is the only part of yours that I would say about the banking system or about the banks in Croatia, about their credit potential or financial potential that can monitor the economy and their will and desire whether they want it or not. And I want first of all to say one thing that I think we will all agree that the banks in Croatia have enough funding, financial resources to accompany all programmes, projects and when it is necessary to intervene when it comes to HZZO or anyone else and should intervene and stop with their loan, with their economic resources. The second thing is that I, too, personally last year, went around all the districts and talked to entrepreneurs about the programme of fostering small and medium-sized enterprises often heard the comments of entrepreneurs that there was no understanding of individual banks for their projects and that it was often faster and easier to obtain a credit in public consumption. So, for some kind of car, it's for a corporate loan. When we started a new line of credit last year to encourage entrepreneurship, with these favourable loans from 2% to 4%, we invited all banks to join the programme. It is finally a Croatian government programme, a small and medium-sized entrepreneurship incentive programme, and it has been made clear to all banks that we are asking them for maximum monitoring of such credit lines. And out of them were received plainly, and the signature and consent, sixteen, seventeen banks. After last year, this year, I think we have more. Therefore, it is accepted to follow these programmes, found that there are no restrictions, a limit on the credit assets that are intended to be placed and what I can say as Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, that I have also given my associates the task of making the first analysis after several months of using these credit lines, analysis of banks and their monitoring of the project. Therefore, we must be aware of the situation that the economic recovery and development of Croatia cannot be achieved without entrepreneurs, that entrepreneurs cannot introduce new technologies, without the support of banks with their financial resources. And I think it's quite clear and certain, at this point I can't say that banks do the opposite and that they don't, but it's certain that through this analysis that we're now going to see if the banks are really behind this project program, whether they're really good at tracking entrepreneurs in these projects. And I think it must be clear to each of us that this programme of development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship but also the economy as a whole must be the programme around which everyone gathers and that these banks also have to find their own interests and that they will find it. And according to that first piece of information we have that project and the banks are well followed. Therefore, no one has even burdened the banks with not being able to monitor the economy in Croatia and I also think it is right to expect all banks operating in Croatia to monitor quality all economic projects and especially when it comes to such projects as the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36853	Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36854	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Definitely this measure of the government is actually taking pills for indifference in the Croatian state and Croatian society, Croatian economy. But that pill won't solve the disease. So I expected you to react with a proposal to establish a Croatian municipal bank or HABOR to turn into an investment development bank. Well, that's why you'd like to write me an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36855	Thank you. So the written answer. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36856	Thank you very much. My question is to Mr. Culture Minister Bozi Bishop. Namely, at extraordinary sessions, the congregations of the Croatian Radio and News Associations and the National Television Associations were warned and protested that Croatian Radio-Television in accordance with Article 54. The Law on Croatian Radio Television did not pay 3% of the monthly collection of funds, on behalf of the fee to the Fund for the Promotion of pluralism and diversity of media, which was mandatory since 7 August 2003 when the Law on Electronic Media entered into force. How the non-payment of Croatian Radio-Television funds has made it impossible for the Fund to function normally in order to promote pluralism and diversity of local and electronic media, please Mr. Minister to inform us how much the Croatian Radio-Television has paid in the fund compared to the legally prescribed obligation, i.e. how much Croatian Radio-Television is still required to pay for what period.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36857	Thank you. Minister of Culture Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36858	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen. It is true that the law entered into force on 14 February 2003, that due to summer or 7 August 2003, the obligation started to pay 3 % of HRT and the fact that it was not immediately opened an account, but that does not excuse HRT. In fact, the HRT is to start detaching immediately and the moment they open the account and pay it to it. He, the Croatian HRT's 2003 commitment, was 8.8 million kuna, not paid. For 2004. 21.8 million kunas have not been paid. It was only this year that 7.8 million were paid. It means that more than 29 million kuna is a debt. And I only hope that since there is no Ministry of Culture, there is no possibility, and there is no law or sanctions, no one is, and probably no legislator in 2003, didn't assume at all that such an obligation would be fulfilled. I therefore hope that the Council is a television and of course the Directorate of Television aware of how important it is and how important it is to encourage pluralism and diversity of the media and that these funds will be allocated subsequently and paid for very important, for the development of local media throughout Croatia, because this is very important and important for the development of society and democracy in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36859	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36860	... that these situations are sanctioned in any way not to be repeated. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36861	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36862	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also refer the question to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Branko Vukelic. The respected ministers know that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship has developed and launched a series of projects to develop the economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Since entrepreneurs, especially new entrepreneurs often do not have enough capital or assets to secure corporate loans, your ministry has launched an initiative to provide a state guarantee through the Croatian Small Economy Agency for the credit lines of entrepreneurs. In connection with the above, the development of the economy and especially small entrepreneurship, my question is as follows. Is this initiative a state guarantee guarantee guarantee for credit lines via HAMAG revived, i.e. whether such a form of financial capital insurance can already be used? And within what deadline is the establishment of the Croatian Small Economy Agency's regional office in Osijek? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36863	Economy Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36864	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarians. Well above all, it is true that we included HAMAG in the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Encouragement Programme, the Croatian Small Economy Agency in this part of the issue of guarantees for those entrepreneurs who do not have enough ownership of their property, so that they can guarantee, guarantee for an entrepreneurial enterprise. And that exactly Hamag as an agency in charge of that part of the government has brought all these projects that are implemented through HAMAG and I have to say that we are in these, or that HAMAG has issued around 10 guarantees in these 4 months this year and 15 is in processing. I would also like to say clearly and loudly that I have already said that I am not fully satisfied with these projects that HAMAG said, I would prepare for the issue of guarantees and the amendments are now in accordance procedures and are heading towards the Government to make this HAMAG as efficient as possible and to make it easier and faster and in a shorter time, but also a better guarantee and that there is no dispute. Certain disputes were with individual banks. So we're going to change these projects to make the HAMAG even more efficient. HAMAG therefore provides these guarantees. These are guarantees primarily for beginner entrepreneurs, but also for all those entrepreneurs who do not have enough guarantees to cover with the HAMG guarantee. As regards the role of HAMAG, I can say here that his tasks in the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Encouraging Programme are still in the direction of certification of consultants and the creation of a network of consultants and co-financing of these consultants to entrepreneurs who are primarily beginners, those who therefore move into the world of entrepreneurship. One of Hamag's activities is also the establishment of its branches in all places and areas of Croatia, so last year it was done in Split. It's in the plan and Osijek. The projected funds are. I don't know, and I can't tell the exact dynamics at which month and when, but, in any case, for Osijek, the branch office of HAMAG and the establishment of that branch is envisaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36865	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36866	I thank you for your response, and I hope that the realisation of the agency is as soon as possible because it is one of the preconditions for the rapid development of entrepreneurship in Slavonia, since entrepreneurs can hardly get mortgage loans because of the significantly lower value of real estate in Slavonia, so the establishment of this agency is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36867	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36868	Your Honor, Mr. President. I refer to the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. The peasants claim that in the first 3 months of this year, the state imported $24m worth of cattle, which is almost $16m more than in the same period last year. Of course they're announcing protests, as is usually the case with us, and I'm interested precisely in the question of cattle farmers from the area and Vukovar-Srijem County and my municipalities which is why this increased import of cattle is? And if this data is correct, why is the Croatian State endangering domestic cattle imports? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36869	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36870	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. It's an interesting question, but I have to answer it. The fact is that Croatia imported live cattle for $24 million for the first 3 months. It is a fact, but it is also a fact that Croatia unfortunately does not have enough of its own cattle. The fact is, there's no problem with buying cattle, there's no extra cattle and there's no price of living cattle, and there's a hero and a pig very, very high. That we had some even trouble with the price of meat in the shops. So, once again, I have something to fix. The state imports nothing, imports of individuals, imports of economies and those engaged in trade and market supply. And normally, meat processors who need to have their own production must have insurance and raw materials. In this context regarding this and this type of imports, I will feel free to say that by analysing the trade situation for 2005 for the first 3 months, unfortunately we have the most critical situation right on live cattle, on imports of live cattle and meat. And these are the items where we have an increase compared to last year. We still have some items, but these are the most significant while in most cases we have a decrease in imports compared to last year. We also have a significant increase in exports during the first 3 months of cca 20% compared to the same period last year. So, if we succeed in stabilising the situation with cattle and meat, Croatia is creating a realistic basis for the next period for reducing imports on the one hand, as well as for significantly increasing exports. In the context of importing live cattle and in the context of your question I must say another, two things to emphasize. One is that we have significant imports, let's take, fertilising material. So for this first three months, nearly 2,000 breeding throats of heifers worth $2 and a half million were imported. It's something we need to strengthen just by implementing this operational programme of cattle development, that's something that works, so future production and milk and calves. So, in the function of production and meat and milk. But also what is worrying is that Croatia imports a large quantity of cattle for tov. And according to these indicators, it's imported somewhere for $8 and a half million in the last three months. So we have to create assumptions, increase the stock fund, ensure that the domestic calves end up in the cargo, and in that way, that's one way we're going to do it to reduce this enormous imports. How cattle live, so do meat. But I must also say that agricultural producers in Croatia are currently not at risk because all their available quantities are sold at prices significantly higher than the average prices that have been in the last 3.4 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36871	Honorable representative of Ivica Clem, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36872	I thank you for your response, and I sincerely hope so, and I believe that this question and your answer, Mr. Minister, are being listened to by our cattlemen as well. That next year one of these negative balances will turn to positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36873	Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36874	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government. Here's a question for the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The HT privatisation law stipulates that 7% of this company's dividend belongs to Croatian defenders. The government of the Republic of Croatia, as is known, has withdrawn the total dividend from the company. However, although the Law says that dividends intended for Croatian defenders are not part of the budget's income, the government has not paid some 140 million kunas to this day as much as the corresponding amount is to the Croatian Defence Fund. The question is, although Minister Shuker could answer it, and I will certainly ask the government for a written reply, will that amount of dividend be paid to Croatian defenders and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36875	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Representative, thank you for the question that certainly interests Croatian defenders and, of course, members of their families. I'd say only two, three sentences of introduction. This government, that is, on the proposal of this ministry that I led to change, that is to say to amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War because the Law adopted at the end of the term of the last government was actually inconclusive. We have also received suggestions from the Securities Commission and other experts. So the first thing we had to do, we had to change the law. Secondly, after that change, we have implemented everything the Law has bound us to, and I can say that all this work has been done so far is extremely successful. As far as your question is concerned, therefore, I remind you that according to the Law and the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and under the Law on the privatisation of HT 7% of the shares were transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund. So it was the government's obligation to do it properly. I also remind you of the fact that the right to dividend is then acquired by shareholders when they become shareholders. Therefore, the government is doing everything in accordance with the law and, of course, takes special care of the Croatian Defence Fund and of the implementation of all those laws. As far as, here's an additional perhaps explanation I'll gladly, of course in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and in writing, or in writing, answer your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36876	I thank the Vice President. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36877	I thank you for your response, the answer is expected, in accordance with the information I had, on how to conduct the debate on the Management Board of the same Fund for Croatian Defence. I don't know if this answer will satisfy Croatian defenders because they will be left without the 140 million kuna that is intended for the fund but in any case I expect the government's position on this issue to pay the dividend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36878	Dear Representative Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36879	Thank you, Mr. President. In the absence of the Minister of Health and Social Affairs, I ask the Secretary of State. The "Fra Ante Sekelez" center, located in Vrlica, currently provides 180 users with heavy and severe mental retardation with physical shortages. During the Homeland War, the centre was completely devastated and destroyed, over the past four buildings were renovated three. The fourth facility located in the centre of the circle of the centre is not renovated and thus the devastated object poses a latent danger to the users and employees of the centre. Given that I know that there are projects to rebuild this facility, my question is that the Ministry of Health and Social Care intends with the object in question if the project is not included in the financial plan of capital expenditure for the activity of social care in the next budget period, so for three years. Whether the facility located within the centre will collapse, donate, redeploy or continue to pose a threat to the users and employees of the centre. And also order the appearance of the center and the city. With a note, more than 40 mentally retarded children are waiting for accommodation. I note that this is the only institution in the field of special state care of such a species, therefore it is surprising that 10 years after its return it does not seem and does not intend to end with the renovation of the "Fra Ante Sekelez". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36880	Thank you, Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36881	Mr. President, Your Honor. The situation around the centre "Fra Ante Sekelez" is slightly different, so the centre consists of 4 objects as you said yourself since 96 the state has invested in three facilities for the complete rehabilitation of the centre. Before the war and before the devastation, the centre took care of many more protégés than today, today there is a reduction of users not because of technical conditions but because of the plan and programme of creating social care homes that have provided a part of the centre’s protégé, by introducing a personal disability, where the Centre’s protégés remain within the family or deinstitutionalisation or by encouraging the independent life of the centre’s protégégé. For this reason, today the centre is numbered 177 protégés and 101 employees. In the annual budget for the centre, 12 million kunas were prepared and spent, and the arrangement of the 4th facility that would require costs and plans is approximately 8 million kuna. By implementing these deinstitutionalisation programmes of the introduction of personal disability and everything else, you will be able to record the situation and see if such capacities are needed regardless of the fact that at this time 40 children are waiting for accommodation in the centre. On the other hand, as part of the tour of the Social Care Centre and the recording of the situation in centres conducted by the health minister so far, where he visited over 20 centres, part of the World Bank funds is used to raise the hygiene standard of such centres and which part will certainly be done in Vrlica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36882	Dear Representative Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36883	Mr. Secretary of State when it comes to the "Fra Ante Sekelez" center, it's of paramount importance not only for the Vrlika, but for the return and for the rest of the people in that space. I'm listening here by who knows which time in the name of the profession you can justify everything without actually building anything and not restoring it. I tell you who comes to Vrlika and sees this center is aware that there can be nothing else in that facility but to be one of the four pavilions for the accommodation of retarded children. There are no other professional reasons to go home because such difficult retarded people can't be anywhere in private foster homes, or any other professional reasons to justify it, so it would be a real question and I can't be satisfied with your answer, I really am interested, so come nicely and professionally to... what you want in the future with the Center "Fra Ante Sekelez". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36884	Thank you. We will now take a break of 30 minutes, there are 15 MPs and MPs left, the first in line is the respected representative Vlado Jukic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the current morning. The question is also asked by respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36886	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking the Prime Minister Mr. Sanader. Dear Mr President, we have been receiving information in Croatia for a long time as the European Union is about to restrict the import of sugar from Croatia. Given the fact that Croatia is exporting to the European Union around... sugar is asked if this happens, if the European Union introduces quotas, it is at least two out of three Croatian sugars that survive, and we can probably assume that sugars would come to an economic disaster in Virovitica and County. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] In view of the fact that relations between Croatia and the European Union are regulated by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement under Article 38 of the Agreement. The European Union and the Republic of Croatia cannot unilaterally make decisions on the introduction of customs, quotas or any restrictions, but can only do so by the Stabilisation and Association Council, consisting of an equal number of members from Croatia and the European Union. If the correct information in the Croatian media is that the Croatian government has already agreed to negotiations on the introduction of quotas for Croatian sugar, I ask what the government has taken or intends to take to protect domestic sugar production and thousands of jobs that can be questioned if the European Union introduces quotas for the import of Croatian sugar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36887	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36888	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative Yukic, it is true that information is being heard that he intends to discuss the introduction of quotas. But it's also true what you said that they can't be introduced unilaterally unilaterally. They can only be introduced with the consent of Croatia. What I can tell you is that as a candidate country, we will listen with great understanding to the arguments that will come from the European Commission, then decide how to set ourselves up, but whatever we guarantee you here, however we set out, make sure that the complete export that Croatia can make can be exported to the European Union, even if such are quotas or without quotas. So, I guarantee and this is our position, to preserve jobs and complete exports that we can carry out can go to the European Union. And you don't need any concerns, Mr. Representative, and others, no fears should be had so that we will lose jobs or that we will reduce the export of sugar to Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36889	Thank you. Dear Representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36890	I'm satisfied with the answer, but you just have to understand our fears since here are the workers of the Sljemen outside and it's justified that we have a fearsome experience so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36891	Thank you. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36892	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to refer my question to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture. Mr. Secretary of State, at the opening of the Spring Book Fair very often and in the press several publishers have repeatedly warned of some illogicalities and even conflicts of interest of council members who decide to grant support to publishers. Please, can you answer me how this support is decided, how much support this year in the ministry is foreseen and is there even a conflict of interest in decision-making in support? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36893	Thank you. State Secretary Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36894	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Representative! As you know, the Law on Cultural Councils regulates the way the Councils work in the field of culture, as well as the Council on Book and Publishing, which decides on the support in the field of publishing, in accordance with the criteria to be published in the context of competitions for buying and supporting books. As regards conflicts of interest, the same law prevents conflict of interest because decision-making must exclude the possible voice of the person in the programme to be decided. During 2004 for the purchase and support of books, 2,000 and 101 titles were bought with 28 million 632 thousand. If we add to this what was purchased through libraries, then the amount spent in this purpose is more than 55 million kuna. It is also planned during this year, and if we add what is supported by the Ministry of Education from the budget, then, of course, all of these statements are that there is not enough support for the publishing industry to be really groundless, given that more than 60 million funds are spent to promote the publishing activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36895	Thank you. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36896	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. It was important for the public because it is often heard in public that the Ministry of Culture does not provide support, so often publishers speak to the local community asking for support. Apparently, they're trying to seize more funds at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36897	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36898	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President! I'm asking Mr. Vukelic my question. In the term of office of the former coalition authorities, laws have been passed to protect workers' payout rights. These provisions have been abolished and you and the entire government have persistently rejected the SDP law that would not make economic crime so easy and so quickly depreciated and equally equivalent that failure to pay the worker would be foreseen as a serious crime. The state doesn't seem to care at all whether the worker received the salary or not. In fact, and even more so, you made it possible for the owners of companies that deliberately damaged both the state and the workers without paying what was necessary, however, to quickly establish a new company and remain unpunished for it. And you're still boasting about it. This and for such a haste and for honest entrepreneurs complications more, i.e. Turbo bureaucracy. Are you and the government finally aware of your responsibilities because you were warned that this would happen or did you just want to?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36899	Thank you. Economy Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36900	Thank you. Mr. President, the Honorable Parliamentarian! This Croatian government and every minister and I are well aware of both responsibilities and conditions and situations when we talk about the economy, when we talk about the rights of workers, about everything that is very important and important. We are aware therefore and responsible, therefore, that this Croatian government too is responsible for all issues from the economy, according to the rights of workers, and all programmes and projects and laws are working in a partnership relationship and agreement with the social partners and the Association of Employers and trade unions. All these acts and all these conclusions go through the Economic and Social Council. Therefore, I think this government also knows what difficulties are in the economy and knows the solutions, and it is passing laws and regulations that aim to resolve this difficult economic situation in Croatia that we inherited from the last government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36901	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36902	That's not an answer at all. You said something without answering anything and don't laugh because the situation is sad. I'm not satisfied and even less satisfied are the workers who are systematically robbed. And it is clear that this government is deafening itself, that it is in her interest to miss and to protect suspicious capital that tears the worker and his family from their mouths as it is currently happening to Sljemen workers. You're celebrating and we're all celebrating but we're weak... indirectly and directly responsible for becoming the generator of unsolicited situations and the consequences for all those who no longer have anything to lose. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36903	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36904	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask my question to the prime minister. Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know if you've noticed but for 21 days some people have been camping here in front of the government, these people are employees of Sljemen, and it seems to me that they didn't come for a vacation, but that the move was caused by injustice, the injustice that caused them the evil that was happening to them, and that's why they came to Mark's square. I know, I know that you understand the question of workers, you've shown that to certain companies that you've solved according to certain criteria. I believe that the criteria used for Goricanka, PPK Valpovo, for Imostroj, for PIK-Vrbovac, I believe that one of these criteria at least meets Sljemen workers and Sljeme meets one of these criteria. So I ask you, by what model and by what criteria will you help Sljemen workers?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36905	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36906	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative Kapraljevic, Sljemen's workers are in the Upper City, here in front of the Croatian Parliament and the Government because the owners of this company do not meet their obligations. They asked for the protection of the rule of law, not from the government, the government joined the process through its Social Partnership Office where we offered good services to try between workers and owners we all know is not the government's owner, that it is not the state's owner, but that FINAGRA owns it. Among other things, at the time of your coalition government, you realised this project, not at the time of the HDZ, not my government. That's where the former ministers were mentioned, and I'm not gonna name them now. Therefore, refer this first question to your former coalition partners. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to say for the first time in public, when you've already encouraged me, I haven't talked about it in public, the second or third day after the strike I came and visited the workers, talked to them, and I didn't put it in public, because I didn't do it, and here's the first time you've heard of it. And I didn't do it to buy pre-election poems or anything but to talk to people, hear what's bothering them, and see how the government can help. What we can't do is give a guarantee to a private owner, it's not usual, you didn't do it either, we can't do it, but be sure that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Polancec and our Social Partnership Office Mr. Begovic are in constant contact with the unions and we are trying to find a solution in which to solve this case, Sljemen. I am absolutely solidizing myself with these workers, I believe that the rule of law must work, I believe that the institutions of the judiciary must do theirs, but this is a re-response, as well as a respected representative of Banac just before the executive power cannot interfere with the work of either the state's attorney, nor the participation or the judicial authorities, it is by our democratic decision of all Croats and all Croatian citizens of the tridivisions of the authorities and we cannot intervene in this. What can we do? What you stand for, to make one precedent to amnest FINAGRA, is that film FINAGRA won't watch.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36907	Thank you, dear representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36908	I'm not happy with the answer, first of all, they're clear to me, and the workers told me that you were there and that you went to see them. The question arises, however, whether Sljeme is left to mercy and not mercy in a situation like this, only because there is no political guardian angel such as Goricanka, Imostroy and PPK Valpovo. In the image of St. Ivana, St. He also defends St. Miomir.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36909	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36910	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to ask the foreign minister and European integration minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. As a year has passed since the entry of the 10 countries into the European Union, it would be interesting for us to hear the mood of these countries in relation to European skepticism, whether it has strengthened in those countries, whether it has weakened or remained the same. We are interested in this because in Croatia there are often controversy through the media, what the mood of the people in Croatia is about European integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36911	Thank you. Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36912	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Zubovic. Analysing the situation in countries which entered the EU membership on 1 May 2004 a year ago, i.e. on 1 May 2004, we can find responsibly that full membership in the Union has been positively reflected in various segments of society. Most countries, the new Member States, record the increase in gross social product, for example in the Baltic countries in the first year of membership, the increase in gross social product is 7-8.5%. It also notes strengthening industrial production, reducing inflation, increasing the value of foreign investment and creating new jobs. For example, the Slovak Minister of Finance argues that in 2004, it can be assessed, i.e. as an extremely positive year precisely because of the impact of membership in the European Union. Most of the fears felt by certain segments of society in the new Member States have spread over the first year of membership. As a best example, farmers in Poland who had opposed membership by membership of 75%, so 75% of Polish farmers and peasants were against membership. Today, this relationship is exactly the opposite, 75% of Polish peasants are satisfied with membership, due to the effects of membership, and only 25% of them think that the consequences of membership are not positive for Poland. We can say that there have been no major earthquakes in the new Member States but no economic miracles. Part of the new members had unrealistic financial expectations from the European Union, but the fact is even that the partial absence of those expected subsidies did not have a negative impact, did not reflect the level of public support for EU membership. For example, support for EU membership in countries... The group, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, is 70%, and for example in Latvia, 37% of the population says that it is extremely pleased with membership in the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can therefore conclude that, according to the citizens' mood in the last year, it is growing in relation to membership in the European Union, i.e. in Member States, support for EU membership is growing due to the concrete effects of membership on the economy, social and other aspects of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36913	Dear Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36914	Thank you very much for your answer. I would only wish if, if you could appeal that such attitudes we do not have the opportunity to see on our media and Croatian television. It would be nice if Croatian television would do at least a week's show on the situation in those countries that entered the European Union a year ago if Croatian citizens also saw the benefits of joining the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36915	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36916	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister is currently Croatia's largest inflation back 5 years, the largest imports of agricultural products, the biggest internal debt of the central state. At the same time in the last 5 years we have recorded the minimum rate of employment growth, the smallest pension growth and the minimum rate of growth of the social gross product. Yesterday in the English Parliament, a plan for amending legislation and an economic strategy for the next period was presented. It happened within 15 days of the election. In England and Croatia there is one common number of 15 because more than 15 months have passed in Croatia since the constitution of the Government, as well as the establishment of the Office for Strategy. The negative trends mentioned above indicate that it is high time to devote ourselves to them. My question is, does the Croatian government have an economic development strategy? If there's one when we'll see her in Parliament? And regardless of the answer, we are proposing in the HSS that we discuss this here in Parliament and I wonder if you will support this HSS initiative to discuss Croatia's development strategy in Parliament as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36917	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36918	I didn't hear you at one point, so I lost one sentence, but I think I caught the point of what you were about to say. We'll discuss it, we'll be from the government and HDZ to discuss the economic strategy. We are at the beginning of the term of office as you did at the beginning of your term, as did the former government and everything. Otherwise, if you remember the Croatian Parliament's trust, because we have proposed an economic programme, and the strategy we are obliged to do, given the fact that we are approaching the European Union, we are working. She's at the end. In the meantime, we have also provided two documents that are also part of this strategy. One document is a pre-accession economic programme. That document has been discussed. He's in the European Union today. The second document was 55 measures by the National Competitiveness Council of one body, which was appointed by the Government, so your government, which we continued to cooperate with without any changes. So we have two documents that are extremely good. We are making out of these documents a third document now that will be coming very soon, and if all the clubs agree we don't mind having a discussion in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36919	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36920	Thank you very much. I believe that we will very easily achieve the agreement of all clubs in the Parliament to discuss Croatia's development strategy. But I'm going back to what I started. The English were due after the 15-day election, and 15 months have passed in Croatia, and we do not have a strategy yet. This is why we are here at the HSS Club proposing that we see all these materials as soon as possible in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36921	Thank you. Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36922	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm referring the question to Mr. Cobankovic. Dear Mr. Minister, as a Nightingale, you are well aware that... As Slavonca, you know that, unfortunately, in Slavonia, from day to day, it is getting worse and harder to live, and it is becoming more and more difficult for all our peasants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reason for this is a series, and one of these is unequivocal and thanks to your ministry and government. Namely, everyone knows the problem with milk, cheese, live cattle, and you talked about it a little while ago. BUT my question is directed in the other direction. How in recent times in public by the users of incentives and individual associations has been mentioned about a significant reduction of incentives both nominal and cumulative and time-limits set for payment of the same and at least as regards the Ship-Posavina County from which it cannot come because it simply does not exist, I ask you, Mr Minister, if the exact finding of a significant reduction of incentives and the total amount of incentives paid for the production of wartime, industrial cultures, or why is there no data in the county? I'm also asking you, Mr. Minister, to answer what's going on with the tobacco production incentives? What kind of amounts are we talking about? And when will they also be paid? Namely, due to the absence of payment, tobacco producers hold that they are unquestionably deceived, but do not know whether by processors or by your respective ministry. And finally, what are they and when will capital investment support be paid for 2004 and non-competitive agricultural holdings for the first quarter of this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36923	Thank you very much. Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36924	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Representative. This question is very complex and I will answer you in writing so that you can get a complete review. But I will now orally try to answer a part of your questions, and among other things, I cannot agree with some of your findings, but about the failures and problems of living in the country. I think the fact is that there are certain problems. There are problems, there will always be problems. But the problems are and that's why there are certain bodies and the Ministry to solve these problems and to meet problems. You yourself know that the problem of living cattle means no problem living cattle. As far as peasants are concerned, there's a problem, but that's the other problem we don't have is enough. So cattle prices are well above average in the last 10 years and heroes and pigs. So there's no problem on that side. The problem is that cattle should be put more into this, which should be more involved and all of the potentials that we have from peasants to businesses and thus increase total income and create a better basis for our work. As for the specific issues related to support payments, I can answer you that there is no speech on the reduction of support. To increase budget support from year to year. That in 2003 we had paid off somewhere a billion and 600 million total aid. That we paid a billion 910 million kuna in 2004 and that we have two billion and 72 million kuna for 2005. As regards the specific issue of plant production for 2004 or better said for the autumn harvest in 2003 and harvest in 2004 and harvest in the spring 2004 and harvest in total for plant production, 902 million kuna was paid. As for Brodo-Posavina County for plant production in that year, a circus of 60 million kuna was paid. There are some other words I would say problems with partially incorrectly introduced particles, requirements, inadequate and, according to our assessment, there are shortfalls in the amount of up to a maximum of 5 million kuna for the entire and complete plant production. That's not the problem with our ministry. In part, the problem and agricultural producers, in part the Office of State Administration, which did not adequately address certain requirements. But we stand at the point that anyone who has the right to do so should do so and we allow that and in some I would say the time that comes to solve that part of the problem. As far as tobacco problems are concerned. I have to tell you that last year, in agreement with the Virovitica Tobacco Producers' Association, in Podravina, we changed the rules on the payment of the aid, the incentive for tobacco, the practical alignment of those proposals they proposed, that there was no delay and that the tobacco incentive was paid. It was paid in total on the basis of the incentive to produce tobacco 59 million 377 thousand, meaning almost 60 million kuna, that processors or tobacco industry provided us with a 2090 account, that the incentives paid to the manufacturer, for 169 producers or circus 8% were paid to certain problems. In part, some of these areas included other cultures, some areas were not listed in the register and similar problems at all, that the subsequent verification and cooperation with the offices of the state administration had resolved the issue since the 169,70 agricultural holdings, and these 99,98 agricultural economies unfortunately could not achieve support for the reason that they had reported on those surfaces, provided support for another culture. This is part of the problem of themselves and normally that we have to take care and strictly take care of the legality of the implementation of certain measures, and I want to stress at this time that now that there is a return and agricultural inspection within the ministry, we will have a much greater control and control over how applications are being reported, as well as the use of incentives. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36925	We can't, Minister. Well, there were a lot of questions. But time is so, I didn't do it like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36926	Here is only for capital support to say, at the 2004 requirements, that all capital investment support was paid at the 2004 requirements, that 67 million kunas of capital support were paid in 2004, and in 2003 it was paid 13 million. .../President: Now in processing we have 897 requests, so far which have come in 2005, processed 714, paid 333 requests or an amount of 18 million. Before payment, 349 demands amounting to 21 million, and the rest are being processed. It was also amended in the sense that investment support was closer to producers in a way that was regulated by the old regulation to submit applications for the first 6 months in the other 6 months. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36927	If this isn't an agreed question and I don't know what the answer is. Honorable representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36928	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm glad I'm getting the same, but so are the other colleagues and colleagues. A number of quality information was provided here. The only problem is the money didn't come to Brod-Posavina County. So, the peasants were deceived. You said yourself that 60 million kuna arrived this year. Last year, 82 million kunas, Mr. Minister, were for encouragement. All right. I hope those with credit lines won't be left without houses, because they mortgaged their assets until the money from your ministry arrives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36929	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36930	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I had a question for the Minister of Health, but since he's not here, I'm going to ask the Secretary of State to answer my question. Namely, a month ago, the health minister will be in the town of Prelogu, at a party meeting. After praising the project to build a hospital pavilion at the Chakovec County Hospital, he promised the citizens of Preloga to open emergency medical care. I don't know if he knew at the time, and I believe the Secretary of State today certainly knows that Čakovec's home of health was submitted to the Croatian Health Insurance Office on January 5th of this year by means of a new regulation. I want to believe that the minister didn't happen to know that you knew that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute responded to that request on 18 January. However, the answer came to Čakovec only on February 3rd, which reads: "We inform you that the Institute cannot accept your request to arrange additional emergency medical care teams, since the health care home does not have the consent of the Ministry of Health for a new emergency medical facility." After which the health care facility is addressed to the Ministry to obtain consent and the ministry gave its reply on April 5th, wrote, which came to Čakovec on April 14th, in which it said, "We are informing you that the emergency medical care system will take place gradually at the request of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance." Therefore, HZZO points to the consent of the Ministry, the ministry points to the proposal of the Croatian Health Insurance Office. Since citizens of Prelog really have an interest in finally solving this problem after 5 times the repeated request, kindly please if you can answer me for a month during this calendar year, the health home of Čakovec will receive agreement and contract for five new emergency medical assistance teams stationed in the lower part of Međimurje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36931	Thank you. Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36932	Mr. President, Your Honor. Namely, first and foremost, the thing is not simple but we can say one thing for sure. If the minister said so, the minister would do it. What has to be said is that there is a certain procedure under which all this is happening, so Article 38. You have the health insurance law that the minister is competent to propose to the government an expansion of the network, a network of health institutions, an emergency medical facility. Since 2003, the negotiation of these emergency medical facilities has been carried out by two regulations, which is one regulation that is related to this case at home of Čakovec for the opening of emergency medical care in Prelog, which is a rule on the conditions, organisation and operation of the outpatient emergency care service. In the case of Prelog, i.e. home of health Čakovec it is not here or that the ball is transferred to the left or right as to how to suggest, nor that it is a problem in financing. The problem is the technical nature of the separation of sanitary transport from emergency medical assistance and the achievement of the number of personnel who could serve these five emergency medical teams. In a procedure initiated by the minister, he must get consent for the government's proposal. This is the part of the meaning you are calling for, which is the consent not only of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, but also of the Croatian Institute for Public Health, Competent Chambers and the bodies of the units of local self-government. As far as I'm aware from this moment on, two consents exist, two are ongoing. So I hope to be honest that this problem will be solved very soon. The issue of Varazdin, Osijek and other centres has been resolved in the same way so far. By then, everyone else, let me introduce you to that, will continue to operate under the Standards and Standards Codes of Health Security from basic health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36933	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36934	Thank you very much. And the text of the regulations and procedures is very well known to us, personally to me. I asked the question, since the ministry's reply is clear that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute must propose to your ministry that network for the Međimurje County. I asked you when HZZO would suggest it to you and when you would give consent. That was my question. Since I see you're not ruling this area, I'm asking for a written reply from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36935	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36936	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government. And members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my question to Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Mr. Minister, you know as Minister that the past government, passed by the government in its last year of government, has decided to allocate part of the funds and the state budget to finance two significant buildings in the town of Slavonski Brod, meaning the state crossing and access connections so-called. Westbound roads. And the current government, as far as I know, has also allocated some of the funds for the purchase of land, buildings. Both citizens of Slavonski Brod and the whole part that is gravitating towards Slavonski Brod were expected to put these objects into operation as soon as possible. During the summer months in Slavonski Brod is actually an intolerable situation because of traffic and suffocation. It is difficult to communicate within the city itself, which otherwise has a rather poorly developed infrastructure. On the other hand, there is a problem with noise and pollution, and the third is that much of the traffic to Bosnia and Bosnia is going through the very centre of Slavonski Broda, there are dangerous burdens that do not give God could if there really be some kind of calvary... the undetectable consequences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The whole introduction is to ask whether you have information, do you know when this border crossing will be opened to avoid all these dangers for the citizens of Slavonski Brod and for people in Bosnia's Posavina who want to return to their homes and this kind of traffic at the border crossing really makes everything nervous and it's a pretty tense situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36937	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36938	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Representative. There are three investors on this very demanding project. Investor of the border crossing and road along the border crossing on the Croatian side and Ministry of Finance. And as far as this investment is concerned, that investment is over and a technical review is being prepared. However, in order to allow the border crossing to be fully placed on the market, the so-called disputed so-called border crossing is disputed. The western road that goes around Slavonski Brod and there are the investors of the Croatian road. However, there are a number of problems due to technical, at this point due to the rainy period and high groundwaters. So you can't do all the work. And the third investor of the city's sewerage collector is Slavonski Brod, which is currently to be built about 700 metres of sewerage network. So I hope that they will complete this western road and sewerage, and that at the end of August it will be possible to open a border crossing from the Croatian side of Slavonski Brod-Bosanski Brod. I say, three investors at this point according to the information we have from the Croatian roads are the biggest problem are the groundwaters that are very high and water-protective areas through which this western scale road passes. But I repeat, the Ministry of Finance has ended this technical part of its practical arrangement of objects and roads as far as the border crossing is concerned. And as far as that goes, it's practically open.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36939	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36940	I thank Mr. Secretary for his information. I think all citizens of Slavonski Brod will be pleased with this information, and the real pleasure will come when that facility is released into traffic. But I'd still like to express one satisfaction. Since an election campaign has passed that this facility is not so unfinished it has been put on the market to collect political points. And if it's the beginning of some new in practice... Congratulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36941	Thank you. Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36942	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy, Mr Peter Cobankovic. As I come from Brod-Posavina County where there are a large number of dairy producers and some of these producers took part in protests between Brod and Požega at the same time as in the Virovitica-Podravska County Osjeka mlekar "Megle" area with 1 May this year stopped buying milk from agricultural producers. My question to the Honorable Mr. Secretary is. Can you tell us if there are excess milk in Croatia? And what your ministry has taken or plans to do to make milk producers have someone to sell their products to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36943	Thank you. Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36944	Thank you very much. I'll answer directly. There is still no excess milk in Croatia. In Croatia, a significant increase in the production and purchase of milk of 10% was recorded in the first 4 months, as I said, that is, such an increase has not been recorded in the last 15 years. And that's what makes us happy. As for certain problems that have arisen with the purchase and takeover of milk, I can say that it is something that has happened in some parts of it. It happened, but for these reasons, the ministry took specific measures and activities. We went to meet certain problems and tried to intervene with other buyers for those areas where some buyers no longer had an economic interest in buying milk from these areas. But we have to solve this problem in general. And as part of that yesterday, we had a meeting in the ministry with representatives of milk processors, complete milk processors from the largest, "Lura", "Vindi" to small mini-milkmakers and we are negotiating a further milk-taking strategy. The general view is that there is no excess milk, that we must continue to work to increase milk production. But there's one other thing. And the thing is, it's got to increase the quality of the milk. Milkers are not satisfied with the high participation of the third class of milk that creates or does not satisfy, in part, the criteria relating to the European Union and export. In this context, the same ministry will do great activities aimed at those producers with a third class of milk that does not meet quality criteria, where we will go educationally, where we will provide certain disinfectants and teach people. Because ultimately, and that's their big interest because there's also a big difference between third class milk and milk, I don't know, extra class and first class. So in general, our orientation is to increase cattle production, it is to increase milk production because milk is very important to us. For milk, the production quota shall also be established when entering the European Union. And, of course, we have to lift that level of production. What's good at this point is that the imports of milk have been significantly reduced. As I said, directly milk fell by about 65, 66%, but there are certain problems with imports of semi-hard cheese from South America, Uruguay and Argentina at very low prices and together with producers we will see if there is a possibility because of a low level of prices to withdraw anti-Danpi import measures, means increasing customs duties and so on. but all according to the contract and agreement with the WTO.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36945	Thank you. Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36946	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I am fully satisfied with your response, and I am particularly pleased that the increased production of milk and that there is still room to increase production, which will certainly please our producers in Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36947	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36948	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a question for Mr. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. In fact, here is the 13th year, which is the 13th year that I am the head of the municipality in which it is probably the most invested in all of Croatia. So in those thirteen, twelve years and something I talked to hundreds of entrepreneurs, and most of them faced a number of problems, above all problems of obtaining consent, some even gave up the opening of the crafts, etc. Do you believe Mr. President that the establishment of the agency of the stop shop or as we well called it, quickly, will help the undecided and attract foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36949	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36950	Mr. Representative, I don't have much to add to what you said, I think that whatever you're laughing at, I think it's a very important and extremely successful project not by the Government of the Republic of Croatia but by all of us in Croatia, because we are aware that administrative obstacles are the biggest culprit for the slow growth of the economy in Croatia, not during last government, not during this but in general. And when we went to remove these administrative barriers under the working title of one stop shop, so that the entrepreneur can get everything in one place, that the craftsman from this week on can get a craftsman in one place, that he doesn't have to bother himself, then it was a great success and a great step forward and, in that sense, a quick HR service by the Croatian Government for citizens, for entrepreneurs is an extremely large historical step out of administrative and bureaucratic conceit and death. In addition, this approach will in many ways prevent corruption and bribes, because if one should go to 15 tents in 15 different state or public authorities, then it is logical that it is referred to how this official, bureaucrat, clerk, will treat him to wait for months, weeks, and another permit or consent cannot be obtained unless you have received the previous one and it was one state that was unsustainable. It also discouraged entrepreneurs and domestic and foreign investors and craftsmen. We think that with this government service we are solving, you all know that it was taken over by FINA, this organization of work for now in Zagreb and Split, but also in all soon, in all other branches of FINA on the ground. We therefore hold that this has achieved several goals. First, we cut time short and depending on the trade court we want it to be at this stage for the longest 15 days, but within a very soon period of 7 days, and preferably within a few days, a day or two. It must also contribute to digitising land books. Therefore, I would say a useful job for growth in the economy, for the growth of standards because without entrepreneurs, there are no new jobs and there are no new values.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36951	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović, please. ... Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36952	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. President of the Croatian Government my question and answer, I will ask the Prime Minister. Last week, the prime minister was in Osijek with his associates, on a working visit to Mr. Kramaric's premises. You promised to start a series of projects for Osijek from the railway station, bus station, the opening of an archaeological museum. But what is particularly impressed by the Ossetians is your understanding of the mosquito problem in Osijek. You promised a quick and effective reaction from the government, a strategy to fight mosquitoes, or a draft of the mosquito commission. My question is, the fact is that in Osijek and the surrounding coast of mosquitoes, she's taken epidemic proportions. The epidemic itself requires a rapid and effective reaction. I'm interested in what the government has done, what kind of programme measures have been taken to combat mosquitoes, how much funding will be provided in the state budget, and what is in fact the government's strategy in the fight against mosquitoes when it is known that the Osijek city administration, or local self-government, has lost that battle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36953	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36954	Mr. Representative, it is true that the mosquitoes' ride has taken the scope of the epidemic, but it is also true that according to our positive regulations, units of local administrations and self-government are concerned about it. Knowing that in Osijek-Baranja County, the only city in Osijek has financial opportunities to deal with the epidemic, and that it will do nothing if the surrounding municipalities do not solve it either. For if Osijek delivers, here are mosquitoes from other municipalities and cities in one day.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36955	So Baranja's coming?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36956	So it's true, isn't it, Dr. Letica? Therefore, for this reason, I told Mayor Kramarić that, with the efforts the city of Osijek achieves and invests in solving this mosquito problem, we will, regardless of what is not in our domain and whatever this is not foreseen in the budget, find ways to help the surrounding municipalities and cities to tackle, because only comprehensive efforts can contribute to this problem. It can't be solved in an instant, that's what you and I know, and that's what I said the government will find ways to help those units of local self-government that can't solve it like the city of Osijek can because it has bigger financial resources, it has a bigger budget and it's working on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36957	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36958	Thank you very much to Mr. Prime Minister for trying to answer, but I don't think this question really is funny, not in such a high house that in some way, as I understand it, is making fun of the problem, really the problem that you saw in the city of Osijek, the mosquito problem. I asked for the strategy, for the amount of funding, I didn't get an answer to that question. I'll ask for a written answer, but with only one note. That Osijek-Baranja County had sent a letter to the Ministry of Health a year ago and then the Ministry of Health responded, since it was also the extent of the epidemic that it would respond within three days after it was analysed by the Institute of Public Health with a proposal for measures to be taken in Osijek-Baranja County. Unfortunately, the answer from the Ministry of Health has not arrived to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36959	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36960	Dear gentlemen, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister Mr. Vukelic. Here I own the Croatian shipbuilding report "Adriatic ship" on the operation of the shipyard in 2004. The report is catastrophic after Croatian shipbuilding. It suggests the collapse of Croatian shipbuilding. Shipyards all except the Oilies are insolvent, which will say unable to pay. The total deficit of "May 3rd", "The Queen", "Brodotrogira" for 2004, is 8.9 billion kuna. State guarantees are not intended to be used. One kuna spent on average is charged 0.60 lipas, which will say that at the beginning they are creating a loss of 40%. The shipyard has 3.3 billion kuna losses on top of capital. They need 3.6 billion kuna to complete the ships they've agreed on. I'm not suggesting it's a problem from today. He's from yesterday. However, the fact is that the only shipyard "Olinik" is a healthy shipyard. But where's the problem? He's meant for his second destiny. Privatisation, within six months, will say by the end of this 1905. The funds should go to some famous fund to pay the pensioners back. And now I want to ask what's true here? Does the government want to privatise that shipyard? If so, why? How much do you think you'll get for him? What's it worth on the market? So who's he going to sell it to and if he wants to sell it to?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36961	Thank you. Economy Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36962	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, MP. First of all, allow a few sentences in view of the situation and the situation in our shipyards. That's hard. That's what I think we all know. It's been hard for years, and I think we're aware of that, and there's more to it. And the objective and subjective ones. First of all, we need to know that unfortunately, the unfavourable situation is when we look at the area of black metallurgy and two and a half times the cost of price increases, so steel and a constant drop in dollars compared to EURO, which is very important and important for shipyards, has caused difficulties in all shipyards. And here I have to say that as one of the shipyards that completed their restructuring process also felt the difficulties that unfortunately last so for several years are extremely difficult on the market simply worldly when it comes to these input elements of cost. The other is true, which is that in 2002 and 2003, the former government tried to renovate shipyards and, unfortunately, the effects of that recovery, and then it was a task and the implementation of the restructuring did not produce the desired results. Partly and for these objective reasons that I was talking about, but partly also for subjective reasons, the shipbuilding administrations themselves, and for this reason, the government's decision was in charge of this Ministry to which I led the task and therefore to carry out a full report and an analysis of the restructuring programme carried out in all shipyards with a clear view of the impact of these circumstances on the world market which are unfavourable and we also ordered that for all contracts that the shipyards had concluded and which, due to these cost increases, came to this balance sheet to try to renegotiate and partly at the job and succeeded. Shipyards are still working on this job, so this is the whole package of measures that should come to the government by the end of the sixth month of this year as one programme that will also have probably modified restructuring programmes and proposals for the resolution of the existing situation, without saying you specifically talked about the difficulties in which it is located with the liquidity position in the shipyards. And so this is one problem that also exists and we know where and where the proposals are, and also to the Ministry of Finance, that is simply to facilitate this present situation which is really extremely difficult. So much for the overall state of shipbuilding. With this note that I said and you pointed it out specifically. The only shipyard that has therefore completed its restructuring in some way, which does not feel so much of this difficulty on the market even though the Uljannik Shipyard with these difficulties is also hit for the first time and they indicate that they will also have to take state guarantees in order to overcome these current difficulties of objective nature. In the plan to privatise our shipyards is the Uljanik shipyard for this year, but in a way that determines the model and the way of privatisation by the end of the year, and for this privatisation, this model and the process are actually only being prepared by the shipyard along with Croatian shipbuilding, together with the Ministry of Economy. The proposal will therefore be in, clearly and with the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and this model will therefore be referred to the government. So there's no talking about someone preparing, intending to do, sell the Uljannik shipyard to someone, and first of all, not knowing the local self-government. Only the shipbuilding site I repeat operates only from all shipyards solid and good, and I don't think there is any reason for fear and fear that something will happen to this shipyard which is not in the direction and retention of this shipyard as a quality shipyard, detention and people working in it and clearly and the importance of economic for both Istria and for all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36963	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36964	I can't be satisfied. I'm personally against the privatization of the Oilies. The shipyard has a developmental, economic and social dimension. And it is certain that the new owner will first ignore this last social one. The price will be modest, and what is most important by selling the oil is also sold to the economic market of the Republic of Croatia. Gentlemen will happen to us, as in Poland in 10 years' time, the government will buy back the Oil, it will become state again, but it will devastate all the accompanying industry as well, and in the east we have the same case that the shipyards are private. But they're top-notch from the state subsidized. We are simply afraid that the time has not matured for such an adventure because similar economic failures when privatisation was due in this country were progressing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36965	And another parliamentary issue, the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36966	Thank you, Mr. President. My question was addressed to the defence minister, Mr Rončević. If we remember a while ago, we talked here about a memorandum that the Croatian government concluded with the US Armed Forces in Europe about the use of polygons and other objects in Croatia. The discussion has already raised the question of actually the purpose and justification of the existence of this polygon at all. I then referred a written question to Mr. Minister about the environmental effects of such use of polygons. I got the answer by which a study was made that says almost that the use of polygons for that area is extremely ecologically beneficial. So there's no harm done or anything like that. Meanwhile, "Green Action" and some other ecological associations and units of local self-government have pulled a broad action to review the justification for the existence of this polygon in that place, especially since a few kilometers away are Plitvice Lakes, which is the source of the Režnica River, while the initiative to declare the Network a nature park and so on has been drawn up. My question to Mr. Minister is whether you or the ministry you are leading to adhere to this citizens' initiative to protect not only their health, their future economic interest in the development of tourism, but also an extremely significant environment. So, Plitvice Lakes and the River Retina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36967	Thank you. The Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36968	Mr. President, Mr. Representative, Slunjsko polygon is the only polygon in the Republic of Croatia that contains all the key elements needed to train the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. In order to protect the environment as much as possible on the Slunjski polygon "Eugen Kvaternik" the Ministry of Defence introduced several years ago into the so-called training system. the maps system, which allows simulation of the actual combat conditions so-called. virtual combat, and enables the training of soldiers under the conditions of the nearest real situation. It reduces use in real, real, combat conditions to 10% of current activities. The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia has been in use for the first time since the Slunj polygon, which since 1967, ordered an environmental impact protection study and established a monitoring of the impact of our military activities on the environment itself. The study showed that most of the area of the military polygon is absolutely clean and that there are no adverse impacts except for two locations where ammunition was fired and at the site of the missile crash. It's been working in these places so far to destroy the murderous combat funds. At these locations, the study showed surface pollution, and deep damage, meaning no impact on groundwater. We absolutely support as the Ministry of Environmental Protection and are ready to contribute to raising the quality of this protection. To this end, we have ordered and have just opened a public consultation tender, a service for external monitoring of the impact of our activities on the military range "Slunja". We have no intention or opportunity to change the area of the military polygon, because we don't have any spatial possibilities, and the cost assessment and study of the infrastructure so far built shows that some moving to a new location would take over a billion dollars. The Department of Defense doesn't have that money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36969	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36970	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm sorry for your response, but I'm sorry that you told the citizens of that area, the citizens of Plitvice Lakes, Slunj, Josipdol and the entire network stream that the military polygon as far as you are concerned will remain forever. I'd like it a lot better if those virtual games were to work at home by the U.S. Army. He doesn't work at home, he works at our place. It's impossible to control them, of course. We've signed such an agreement that we won't control them, but that's already our problem. What's terrifying, I was there and I heard it. Explosives are being destroyed on the surface of that polygon, which is nowhere else in Europe. But obviously, the view of this government is that it's less important than winning on the other side. Well, thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36971	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the current morning is over. The government provided all MPs with answers to the questions referred in writing. Resume session at 15.00 hours. Before moving to the current morning and the parliamentary issues in accordance with and party agreement, the Prime Minister would submit information on the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I ask the Prime Minister of Doctor Ivo Sanader to submit this information. Here you go, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36973	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The intensity was that it came from the club's representatives to address the latest developments and enlargement of the indictment against Cermak and Markac with the latest state of affairs. But I think it has a strong impact on other issues, primarily related to our relations with the Hague Court and the European Union. I want to say openly that the government is aware that our public is concerned and upset and we share that concern and anxiety. The issue of our start of negotiations with the Union is therefore linked to our cooperation with the Hague Court in a way that causes confusion among citizens and restores political debates. I want to talk about it on this occasion where I thank you clearly and directly because it is a time for a clear and open conversation. At the same time, I would like to stress that there is no reason for any dramatic reaction. Croatia is a stable and strong state that has overcome all difficulties and temptations so far. We have entered into a period during which decisions will be made important for Croatia's future international position and for Croatia's future at all. We have entered a period during which these decisions will affect our social life tomorrow in the way Croatia will look and live tomorrow and what a future for generations to come. Confirming the start date of negotiations with the Union is so much more than a political signal or a diplomatic sign for the start of an intergovernmental conference. This will be the final step in completing the overall strategic goal of creating an independent Croatian state, rounding the project launched 15 years ago. It is a pleasure to know that despite the current uncertainty and contradictions, the majority of the Croatian people and citizens of our country clearly support this historic connection between Croatia's independence and Croatia's release and drawing on the map of a new Europe. It is also a pleasure to know that Croatia has made progress on its way to the European Union. No one, no country is within a year, a year and something has passed from positive AVAA on Croatia as a country of stable and developed democracy, an effective market economy to candidate status, then until the date of the start of the negotiations, to the adoption of the negotiating framework, and that is what we witness final preparations both in the institutions of the Union and on our side for the start of the negotiation process. The obvious truths such as this sometimes need to be repeated, and we are aware that it would be quite clear what progress it is but also what a difficult path it is. The end of that time, so the start of the negotiations now awaits final confirmation. At the last meeting of the Council of Ministers, the Member States of the Union were unable to agree on a confirmation of the start date of the negotiations. The key dispute is the difference between our full co-operation with The Hague Court. This House, as well as our entire public, is well-known, clear, unequivocal and over the years and several days already confirmed the policy of my government and it is the full co-operation with the International Criminal Court, is our own legal obligation to follow the constitutional law that has passed this House of Commons, but it is also an international obligation to follow our membership in the United Nations and the fundamental international responsibility of the State in the follow-up of the Security Council resolution. However, it is also part of meeting the recommendations set out in a positive opinion on membership in the European Union and continuing to strengthen the Copenhagen criteria for membership in the Union. This policy has determined all the moves of my government and my personal decisions during my current term. This policy is also accepted in the Croatian public. This policy has also been accepted in this House, regardless of any differences, there are no real political options in Croatia today that would oppose co-operation with The Hague, in all cases, and in the last, last, remaining case of General Gotovina. This policy is also recognised in the international scene. Without such a policy, we would not have achieved the precedent we were just talking about, in just a year to ensure the status of candidates for membership and, on that basis, a completely new and stronger international position for Croatia. But I will say in front of the Croatian Parliament and this, this policy is first and foremost because of Croatia, and not membership in the Union, nor co-operation with The Hague Court can either be for any of us, nor for me or for my government for itself, nor a cover for reforms and progress that we want to achieve for the benefit of our own country and our own citizens. A stable democracy as we have re-established these days by local elections together with political stability, social tolerance and respect for human and minority rights. By involving minorities in political life, these are all assumptions of the introduction of European values and standards into our everyday life. These are all the assumptions of our final exit from the zone of state formation, transition and post-war period in the area of European security and European values. Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, the key to everything is the rule of law, everything I'm talking about and everything the government is doing, this huge effort to continue comprehensive reforms and prepare the country to almost join the family of developed European states, is based on a key premise, on the rule of law. Economy, investment, the position of citizens, the security of society, reforms in all areas, everything rests in the rule of law. I'm talking about the rule of law because the rule of law makes that key division between a stable and a secure, civilised and orderly society and society marked by non-compliance with the law over the rule of law over the rule of law over the common and inherited rights of the institutions of systems and states, not the order of government. I'm talking about the rule of law and because of that, to repeat, no one can be outside and above the law. I'm talking about the rule of law and in order to reach the central point of our cooperation with The Hague so far. First of all, let me say that just by respecting the institutions of the rule of law, we have so far ensured full co-operation with The Hague Court from 95th to today. This has been confirmed with everything else in the case of charges brought against Generals Cermak and Markac these days. And that is why, because of respecting the rule of law, therefore the legal procedure through which we will be convinced I prove the legal, true truth and in those two charges but also of the entire Homeland War Generals Cermek and Markac are today in, at large in Croatia, just because we have set ourselves up like this. To me, it's a clear confirmation, not only of cooperation with The Hague, but of mutual trust with that institution. That is why, and also because of the fact that Mrs Del Ponte's main prosecutor herself, during the last year in both cases when the European Union decided to raise Croatia's status, so also on the occasion of April avis and on the occasion of granting candidate status in June, gave a positive assessment of our cooperation. I see neither the basis nor the reason for the recent proposal, which is precisely why, for the recent proposal of the prosecution to extend the indictment against the two generals, I see no reason either to justify or to formulate such an extension of the indictment. You are aware that this proposal mentions a joint, quote "a joint criminal enterprise organised for the purpose of ethnic cleansing of the occupied territory of the Republic of Croatia in which, according to this proposal, President Tudjman took part and practically the entire political and military summit of the country, and many known and unknown local, party and other officials and the Croatian Democratic Community is mentioned by the nouns. I must say that already only quoting this proposal in this highest House of the Croatian States is causing infidelity and indignation. Ladies and gentlemen, Croatia is firmly committed to continuing full co-operation with The Hague, but I want to make it clear here that the government considers it totally unacceptable and rejects such political assessments. This wide-ranging claim made in the proposal extends the principle of collective responsibility, which is in clear contrast with the task of identifying and punishing individual responsibility. The Republic of Croatia, in this occasion too, should be particularly stressed, has been the victim of major Serbian aggression and has tried for four years to solve the problem of occupied areas by negotiations and calling on occupiers to leave the sovereign Croatian territory. Serbia-Montenegro, former JNA and rebel Serbs in Croatia participated in the aggression and occupation. At the same time with the negotiations, Croatia also created a powerful armed force that in the magnificent military redistribution operations "Blesk" and "Storm" in 1995 freed the central parts of Croatia and returned the occupied areas of Croatia into the constitutional order of the country by 15 January 98. Finally, but most importantly, to estimate that "Storm" is a criminal enterprise, with the intention of ethnic cleansing Croatia means to be in direct conflict with all relevant documents of the United Nations, therefore, bodies established by the court and to which the court answers. For this reason, the example also means to be in an obstacle with resolution 49/4 of 1994, which added the General Assembly of the United Nations to the United Nations, made it clear that the occupied areas are part of the sovereign state territory of the Republic of Croatia and pointed out the danger of occupation for the sovereignty and integrity of Croatia, this resolution clearly speaks and thus is called the Resolution on occupied areas of Croatia. This logically leads to the conclusion that every sovereign country whose part of the state territory is occupied has a legitimate right and a duty, I repeat, and the duty to free its territory and banish the occupiers. It was done by Croatia nothing less and nothing more than all these other countries would do and I repeat, which is why we are all proud. So "Storm" was not a criminal enterprise with the aim of ethnic cleansing anyone from Croatia, but rather a magnificent and brilliant enterprise of a nation which, both with the determination of state leadership and the courage of its defenders, has shown that it knows and can win the imposed war. The Storm was a liberating, legitimate and just action. Croatia will prove it wherever it should and also in The Hague court. If a person in such an operation has committed an unholy act or a crime must be answered individually. And here it is true, given this expansion of what I said already in public, the more absurd the accusations, the more absurd the indictment it is, the easier it is, and therefore it doesn't need to be particularly excited but that doesn't mean that we don't have to take it all. And so here's the information. Given the importance of this issue, I would like to report that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already responded through the Ministry of Justice. That a legal and political analysis of this proposal has been prepared and that our objections are addressed to the Dan Hague and that Croatia will, in the first step, announce, firstly in dialogue with The Hague Prosecutor's Office try to change that and to reject those qualifications, if we fail, then we will first go with the prosecution, then we will join as friends of the court, the institution we have the right to and therefore before the court itself. And this approach confirms our cooperation with the Court. I would like to add, cooperation is necessary because of the historical truth because cooperation also means helping the Court to establish the exact facts and that the Court in the course of the proceedings points to inaccuracies and errors, whether intentional or not. And that's exactly what we're going to do, and that's exactly what the irreplaceable co-operation with The Hague shows. This is the only way to eliminate the most difficult danger, the danger of not clarifying the issues of the Homeland War, unexplained because we did not participate in their clarification and remain before The Hague court as a permanent cloud and a permanent shadow over the achieved freedom and independence. We know the truth, but we need to confirm it there. Croatia's history is unfortunately too marked by precisely the kind of thought-out, maintained and politically used manipulations and ambiguities that, over time, become some sort of permanent indictment. We have such examples in the history of the 20th century. We cannot allow the equalisation of the legitimate defence war from the planned aggression aimed at just the ethnic cleansing of the Croatian people from occupied areas in this same aggression. As evidence, I state this: whether it should even be reminded that even during the time of the existence of the "UNPA" zone. So, at the time of international protection from these occupied parts of Croatia, tens of thousands of Croats and other non-Serbs, which was also part of the planned, ethnic cleansing, and more than 600 Croats, Hungarians and other non-Serbs were killed. I don't want to speculate or politicize on the motives and intentions of these political assessments of our latest history. I don't even want to speculate on the attempts to review historical facts from these periods. We will write our own history and write it in Croatia. I am convinced that the Hague court will also hold to facts, to the truth and to international law. All this clearly shows ladies and gentlemen how expensive and far-reaching every decision is to try to escape the rule of law, to refuse co-operation with the court and to try to impose outlawism as acceptable or even heroic behavior. Croatia pays the price. I am obliged to say this clearly and openly, first of all, because of all the thousands and thousands of our people who have stepped into the defense of the homeland, because of known and unknown defenders, they are truly war heroes. So now we must face the unexplained sides of this period precisely to protect each individual case from The Hague, to ensure that future generations remember the real truth about this most brilliant period of our history, and that, in this truth, we are free of guilt and unsustainable lunches to meet new Europe. The action plan adopted by my government, which I personally presented to the representatives of the European Union Task Force, is exactly what this is for. The government will continue its full co-operation with The Hague court for the reason I spoke of the full truth, but also for resolving the last remaining case of General Gotovina. At the same time, this plan is part of our firm intention to fully introduce the rule of law as the fundamental principle of organized and civil society as it wants in Croatia and expects the entire public. The government intends to continue to meet these expectations and remains the most important measure of our responsibility and effectiveness. We, this generation of Croatian politicians, simply have no right to miss the historic opportunity to introduce Croatia into the European Union and complete a project launched by declaring independence and victory in the Homeland War. I am convinced that on behalf of the great majority of us, Croatia lives and shares with other free peoples and countries of Europe with common values and that it must not miss the opportunity to create a common European future with others, and in this European and Croatian future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36974	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Anto Djapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36975	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, in our Club, we appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister has submitted information, a brief report on the relations between the Hague Court and the position of the Croatian Government on this, but we believe that it would be appropriate either before or after the "Current Hour" or after the "Current Clock" that even the clubs of the representatives, at least the clubs of the representatives are also visible about this report, about this information. This would be in line with the Rules of Procedure and would be in practice of good practices of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36976	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36977	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government. I agree with the Prime Minister that we need... Cooperation with The Hague. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a political question. Disputing charges of having to be a legal issue, the Gotovina case is a police issue. But I also agree with Mr Djapic that this House needs a debate at least per club unless we want to spread the debate and that it should be possible for all of us behind you political culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36978	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament Presidency preparing for this session, there was an idea of an initiative for the Prime Minister to address the Croatian Parliament with one piece of information relating to this indictment and that this debate, and that this information should be given at the beginning of this session without debate. That case, that case we had, we had a dozen cases both in the past and in several and in this assembly of parliaments where the presidents, the Prime Minister or the Deputy Prime Minister or ministers gave some information about certain events and events, gave information, and then there was no debate. We tried to go and this way now and the same here I'll put on the vote proposal,... I'll put on vote the SDP club proposal, HSP clubs and IDS... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Dwarf.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36979	Look, I don't want us on behalf of the Club to have to look for breaks now, because if you, by voting, reject our proposal, we'll have to ask for a break, then we'll be obvious about it, then, and I wouldn't really want it because we're in the best interest when we get the information and from you through the media that the Prime Minister is going to show up then we've given up our announced proposal that we're going to ask for a point of the agenda, Croatia's co-operation with The Hague Court. And it was even announced that it would be this afternoon. That the president will address, and no, not before "The current hour" but now we are, we are where we are. So we, in our best intentions and faith, would like to make a deal. It's nothing dramatic that after "the current clock," maybe at 3:00, that short clubs, at least clubs are visible about all this. Otherwise, we, of course, would be forced to ask for a break then after the break we could talk about, and we would not really want to, and then, of course, we would have to ask for a special item on the agenda of Croatia's co-operation with The Hague court, which we would also not want to do. So I'm asking you to think about it a little bit and try to get out of this situation properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36980	Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36981	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is no doubt that this extended indictment was extremely interested and concerned by the Croatian public. There is no doubt that we, as a legislative body, have already given our word by passing the Declaration of the Homeland War on topics that have been represented in this extended Hague indictment. However, leave the Parliament without being able to discuss this topic and leave the Parliament without being able to eventually confirm in the simplest way the Declaration of the Homeland War and possibly that some new qualifications would not be good political. That's why I'm joining the motions to conduct the debate. It doesn't have to be done now. Let's spend the afternoon, let's have a good time tomorrow. I think it would be good to allow this House to state its political position on an extended indictment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36982	Thank you very much. We heard the suggestions. Three club representatives. I'll put you to the vote. I'll put you to the vote. Who's for this information to be discussed? Who's against it? Restraint? 48 for, 68 against and 3 abstentions. Representative Rožić prior to the publication of the results. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36983	Mr. President, we seriously doubt this count. I'm asking you nicely to vote individually on this on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36984	Do you doubt it?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36985	I doubt this vote count. We'll remember number 48 and please vote individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36986	All right, let's take a single vote. So the question is who's in favor of having a discussion about this information. Who's against it? Who's restrained? How about we have a club debate? All right. So she can have a good time. The debate was in the clubs. That's the question. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36987	Jane Adam – v, Đurđa Adlešić – abstensive, Irorena Ahel – v, Zdenko Antešić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović – abstensive, Željka Antunović – abstenzena, Franjo Arapović – v, Mato Arlović – za, Judenka Babić-Peterić, Stjepan Bačić – v, Ivan Bagarić – v, Marija Bajt, Ivo Banac – v, Luka Bebić – v, Marijan Bekavac – v, Jure Bitunjac – v, Florijan Boras – v, Dražan Bošnaković – v, Ljubica Brdarić, Mirjana Brdać – v, Mirjan Brnač, Žačač, Žačan Žačan Žačan Žač, Žažan Žažan Žažan Žažak – Anti, Perica Buk – Anti, Perica Bukić – Anti, Perica Buk – Mr, Kar, Karm Khar – Karm Khar – Karm Khar – Karm Khar – Žaljk, Karm Khar – Žaljkt, Tr. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36988	The result is next. 51 MPs and MPs voted to hold discussions by clubs after you submitted the information diameter, 68 against and 13 abstentions. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It's number one. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials – Proposer Research Commission; Please request the President of the Commission, the Honored Representative of Nenad Stazic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36990	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All two, three sentences. So at its 12th session on February 25th, the Croatian Parliament made a decision on the establishment of this investigative commission, and the decision prescribed that the commission has a 3 month deadline to complete its work. That deadline expires on May 25th. The commission received all requested documentation from trade courts and from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So that file came in and it's been processed. However, we have not yet conducted an examination of all witnesses. And now it's going to be a commission session. We just took a short break. The witnesses invited for today are waiting for us to continue our interrogation. And we're still waiting for enough, we've still got enough work to do, a lot of work to make sure that, by this time May 25th, we couldn't finish our work. That is why we refer to the proposal of this decision to extend the deadline for another three months so that we can successfully finish the work you have entrusted us with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36991	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Excuse me, is there? Excuse me, Comrade Sesar, I apologize, there's more and more, yes. First, there is the HDZ Club, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36992	Mr. President, I think this really is Mr. Stazic's way of saying this, so I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36993	Thank you. The HS-PGS Club is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36994	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. And my debate will be relatively short on the subject. I want to visit a few things that are important to me, and it's good to repeat them so they don't forget. First of all, I would like to point out that the Croatian People's Party Club has supported the establishment of this Committee. We will also support this proposal to extend the deadline without any doubt as it is in our interest. But I remind you when this proposal came before the Parliament to decide that our Club also had a proposal, and for reasons and motives for setting up a similar investigative commission that should have been dealt with by assets and other officials who were not then accepted, this proposal. And by reading through the press, I have only just now realized that we could save significant funds to the taxpayers of this country, especially if it is true that the Commission will also hire experts to study documents and these 3 plus 3 months of work by the Commission itself, that I then accepted an offer to withdraw one and another proposal from the procedure. The motioner requested three months first. Now they're looking for three more months. We'll vote for it, but it's interesting why you're asking for an extension. I found three reasons. In an explanation, the first reason is that the Commission has not yet received all the documentation. From whom, why, and what documentation remains unknown to me. The second reason was not to take witness statements. I want to believe that no witness has left Croatia and that it is available to the Committee and that as soon as possible, it will be heard. And the third reason is that the Commission is obliged to provide an indication of the facts and of those whose affairs are being examined. So the topic is called "Sukob of Interest". This is a conflict of interest. It is my duty to remind and react on time this time that at the next session we should not form another commission to prevent conflicts of interest or, or investigating committees. So I remind you that in this House we have adopted amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which was published in the National Journal on 13 April. According to the Law, he enters into force on the eighth day. This means that the amendments and additions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest entered into force on 21 April. It's May 18th today. Article 2 of this amendment states: "The founding state officials", so we are parliamentary representatives among other things "are obliged to submit the report referred to in Article 7. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties by a declaration containing the information referred to in Article 1 of this Act." So complemented not only with a list of assets but also with a way of obtaining that property. "In 30 days from the day of entry into force of this Law." I remind and warn everyone responsible here and here in the Parliament and in the Republic of Croatia that the 30th day of respect for this Law expires on 21 May. It's Saturday. Now on Saturday and that from Sunday onwards, all government officials who do not submit a report in an existing form on non-existent instructions that no one has given, that we have been in conflict with this Law since Sunday. All government officials covered by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests from Sunday are in violation of this Act unless we substrate data on how we acquired the assets that we submitted to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest at the moment we entered this House. Since I don't want to be a violation of the law, and I believe neither of you will believe that by Saturday, there will be conditions that at least 152 parliamentary deputies will not be declared by the media on Sunday morning by the first offenders of this Law voted in this House. I call upon the competent and responsible to enable the implementation, respect for the law. Otherwise, this Commission of Investigation, the Commission on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, was nothing more than the production of fog, and then we became nebula producers and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36995	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote one before. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36996	I would make it right, I find it incorrect to say that it is necessary to create some special preconditions to meet the obligations of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest for the reasons that the obligation is very simple. If I made it in my card that I have two houses, an apartment and a "Rolls Royce" then I can easily write it. I won the house by inheriting it. I bought Rolls Royce for profit, and I inherited another house for example. And I think it can be done without any special forms, instructions, rules or anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36997	Thank you very much. And I think this, this appeal Mr. Sesara deserved full attention. So let's try to write by Saturday, I don't think some form needs what my colleague Josipovic says. Simply write an explanation of how to acquire Rolls Royce and other small things. On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative of the commission's chairman Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36998	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just to answer Mr. Lesar's question and remove all the misunderstandings. The reasons set out here in the explanation, and the explanation, the proposal to extend the deadline was written immediately after the end of our final session of the Parliament, because it would be time for the President of the Parliament to come on time, so that he could put it on the agenda in the regular procedure. In the meantime, something's changed. In the meantime, there was all the requested documentation, and we requested documentation from the Commercial Court in Varazdin, the Commercial Court in Zagreb and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Not only did the documentation arrive, but the commission that continued to work after the last session was completed and the documentation was processed. So, Mr. Lesar, it's an answer to the question of which documentation, from which documentation, and what documentation, and what documentation, and we just still need time to talk to the witnesses and to finish our work. We couldn't have done that until May 25th. There. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u36999	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37000	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief. The HSP club will support the proposal of this decision to extend the commission's time, because normally as well as the Croatian public, we are interested in the full truth in this case, which means why this investigation committee was founded. But again here I have to mention the part that was happening at the beginning about the work of the commission, when the club of HSP was responding, and that was the fact that it seemed to me that four, five times the commission met to agree when they would meet and apparently there were various, various games, and it was lost almost a month on that, so we asked for the intervention of the President of the Parliament who intervened and thank God that they had started working. But all these things say that after all this, we will have to go to a lot of things to amend this law on investigating committees. One part of this is when you start working in which time, because in some cases it will take over 6 months to determine the full truth given the way you work. But here it is also important to commit to the deadlines when the relevant authorities which are asked for something have to satisfy it and to provide for various and different meanings of criminal sanctions and other sanctions unless they comply with these requirements. Therefore, we expect that, within this time limit that we are going to extend today, the commission will finally do what is set up and the public will know what was in it, whether it was a political game or if it was really true all that was in the proposal of the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37001	Thank you very much. Does the proposaler's representative want final? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. That should be voted today, and now we don't have that majority to vote on, the quorum to, so we will during the day. I hope the quorum gathers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're going to vote for what we discussed. Please engage to determine the quorum. Please result in a quorum. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have a quorum. Then let's take it in a row. The first is the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials. The Proposer of the Decision is an investigative committee. It's about that extension. Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 99 votes for and 3 abstentions, the proposed decision was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37006	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Rules on the Public Works of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies. I would like to remind ourselves that our Rules of Procedure, of course, of the Constitution in Article 79, provides that the internal structure and way of work of the Croatian Parliament is to be governed by the Rules of Procedure, that our Rules of Procedure are specifically prescribed that the rules on the public work of the Parliament and its working bodies will be adopted and that the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament at its session, held on 12 January 2004 the need for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the Public Works of the Parliament and its working bodies. This need, among other things, came from the fact that here already for the fifth year, the Croatian Parliament is more important or could be said to have opened the door to the public, that the public can also have direct insight into the work of the Croatian Parliament, by following the meetings of the Croatian Parliament and the working bodies, of course, and that the premises of the Croatian Parliament can be visited, but that the archives, documentation and literature from the library and archives of the Croatian Parliament, in which it has an educational function, not only for the development of democracy and preparation for democratic flows in the Republic of Croatia, but also for among other things, an educational function related to the place, role and importance of the Croatian Assembly in general in the Croatian society and the state on the one hand, and also related to the study of our parliamentary and ines of history. On the basis of such a decision by the Croatian Presidency, the Croatian Parliament has also decided to ask the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System to draw up a draft regulation on what the Committee has done and in this respect, of course, that the Presidency recognises the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. In addition, consultation was carried out on this Regulation and among other working bodies that submitted their observations which put their views on it, as also provided by representatives of citizens' associations dealing in particular with the development of democracy and the public of the work of parliamentary and their institutions in the Republic of Croatia, particularly GONG. We must acknowledge that GONG has also provided certain observations at the stage of the production of this Regulation which have also been used and which are, to a significant extent, embedded in the content of this Regulation. What's the rule book doing? The Regulation regulates the presence of representatives of associations of citizens, NGOs and the citizens themselves of meetings. So both groups and associations and individuals. Then, visits to organised groups of citizens of the Parliament, ton and image shoot sessions of the Parliament and its working bodies, making radio and television transmissions during the session of the Assembly, the way journalists, cameramen and technicians are registered in the Assembly, the right to see the documentation, archive construction of the Assembly, Internet sites, etc. Why did we mention GONG in particular? Because, among other things, there are now some suggestions that could or should be included in this text of the bill at their point of view. Of course, these are not amendments, but since this reading of the other act covers both the first and second readings, allow only for the sake of the public, not so much for the Parliament's sake that we do say that some of them have considered or we have better said all of them, but it would be difficult or we find it unnecessary to accept them. The first of the three comments refers to the need to shorten the time limit of the necessary applications by 5 days when it is due to be announced to the professional service of the Assembly for Visiting Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is therefore quite clear if it is organized groups that want to visit the Croatian Parliament that at least 5 days ago they must know that they will visit the Assembly, participate or observe the work of their meetings, working bodies or the Parliament itself, and that in such a situation it is certainly not necessary to actually accept this suggestion and this proposal. It is also a similar situation with the question that the security reasons set out in Articles 5 and 7 should be explained when the Secretary of Parliament, or when the Bureau of the Assembly may, by its decision, give reasons to deny a visit to the Assembly or to a particular working body for security reasons. Because it is thought to be reasoned, so no, nothing can happen, or rather nothing new can invent this rule in that segment, which is already prescribed by the Constitution to be denied by the Constitution or by law. By the Constitution and by law and by the position of the Constitutional Court itself, any administrative act must be reasoned. Therefore, the Parliament Presidency's decisions if there is a reason. And let us hope that there will never be such reasons to deny, for security reasons, visits to the citizens of the Parliament, that is, the monitoring of a session of the Assembly or of some of these working bodies will have to be explained. Of course, it should be pointed out here in particular that the newspapers that are present for the registration of journalists, then the technical staff of cameramen, etc. It is very important, and in this segment, practically, that the Presidency has come from the fact that no domestic or foreign journalist should be able to monitor the meetings of the Parliament and that everyone should be accredited in this respect, but also that order should be introduced in that segment and that, of course, in the name of the newspaper, the request for these journalists is submitted to the press, and if it is a free journalist then, of course, it is a foreigner that the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can then be sought before the accreditation is given and, of course, when it comes to the journalist, it may be extremely possible, therefore, not but the secretary may seek the opinion of the Croatian Journalist society. In this way it is practically not only possible for what has already become a practice but also prescribed rules of the game. And I am convinced that our citizens, our associations and organised groups who will visit the Croatian Assembly with joy will come to these premises, that they will have the opportunity not only to hear and follow what is done or to exercise direct insight, then they will, on behalf of the citizens who will be present for the work of their representatives in the Croatian Parliament, but will also act educationally and have the opportunity to learn about the development of their general culture both on the development of democracy and knowledge in general about the place, importance and roles of the Croatian Parliament. The Bureau proposes that the Parliament accept this rule and adopt it after the debate has been carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37007	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system want? Yes or no? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have a written report. The Committee on Information, Information and Media. No, I don't. We also have a written report. I'm opening a debate. The club of HNS representatives of PGS respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37008	Mr. President, given the full agreement within the Constitutional Committee as a proposal I do not need, I am therefore withdrawing the application for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37009	Thank you very much. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37010	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First we are surprised at the club HSP about this Regulation on the public work of the Croatian Parliament and the working bodies. First of all, I have to say that we agree that what's already happening here is basically regulated only by what's already practically happening. So it's just a rulebook practice. But we, as agents, often comment on the draft laws or other provisions delivered by the Government. This is one of the same that is quite unskilled both nomotechnically and essentially. Just look at how the provisions are printed. Nomotechnical provisions are written in a way that is not done, because if the item is then order is inserted inside and goes below the line. Therefore, I did not really expect this Presidency of the Parliament to propose one to us, and we must know for ourselves that democracy is being realized through formalism, so that we as the Croatian Parliament can make remarks to the Government or other applicants of the bill if we ourselves do not adhere. In this case, this is about the presidency. Let's take the essentials now, for example. In the transitional and finals, the following should be said. According to this, it is visible to journalists that registrations will be issued within 30 days. Whether or not that meant putting the transitional final provisions into effect that these current registrations that were in force would cease to apply. You have, for example, the registration of journalists in paragraph 2. This is about Article 12. Veli, free journalists can apply for registration to the Secretary of Parliament, and the Secretary of Parliament may request the opinion of the Croatian Journalist Society before issuing the registration card. But in this paragraph, when it comes to publishing, that paragraph 2 is not mentioned again. What does it mean if, say, the Press Society doesn't give an opinion? Or if the Press Society gives a negative opinion? Well, these are the things to take care of. There is, and this needs to be defined, what does that mean, is it official duty for all journalists who meet these conditions to issue new registrations? Or will some action be carried out here now, so that some will be given, and some will not be given? So that's the part that can be interesting. Let's say there is, and this part is interesting for free journalists. That's the part of the public where it comes true. So I think that's a rather significant question. We have these, let's say in the first article, the presence of representatives of associations, citizens and everything else, which is essentially the possibility of monitoring the work of the Parliament, not the presence. Because this chapter is also particularly about citizens at Parliament meetings, so Article 3 and 4 is no longer about presence but about the possibility of follow-up. So that should also be harmonised. Then also take this section regarding Article 10. The Assembly's working bodies are also public. That's true. But perhaps, in the first paragraph, you should say immediately that the meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security when it comes to matters representing the state, the military are generally closed. All right, we have a situation where all our meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy are closed even though many things shouldn't be closed, so there should be one. So the rule is if it's about data representing a state, military or some other kind or degree of secrecy then they're closed, and in all other cases they're public. If it were not for the possibility that the chairman of the board, or in... the committee would always have to make such a decision. And for this part it says, article 18 of the Parliament's work is also being achieved via the Internet. Yeah. But through the Web site of the Parliament, not the Internet. The Internet is a broad term. So it's an Internet site. There's even a possibility there'd be a session and it's being transmitted through the Internet. And e-mail which is the same. [[Intruder: I e-mail.]] So as a lawyer, I'm not satisfied with this watch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37011	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. On behalf of the proposer of the Bureau of Parliament, Honored Vice-President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37012	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, of course I have to answer to a respected colleague, Kovacevic. There are namely different rules of nomochniks in the notation, one of them is, of course, the rules of how to write certain acts. There's a way to write what's called. American and European models. One goes from marking items, the other goes from indenting items, i.e. the first line in line. Now this second model, or European model, is being applied here and condescendingly. Therefore, there is no need to discuss in this part and in this respect it is not only applied that model consistently from the point of writing but also the marking of Arabic numbers in brackets. The second point of view is the opinion of the Croatian Journalist Society. As is known in the legal theory and legal legislative practice, when an opinion is sought, it is, or when it is mandatory, to request. It was first accepted here that it was not a mandatory request for an opinion, but the secretary could ask for an opinion. Secondly, when an opinion is adopted, the opinion... of whoever requested it is not binding in its content but whoever requested it may accept, on the basis of an opinion, no opinion and views, but of course if there are some important things in the opinion that are important for the implementation of this Regulation such as, for example, possibly some information relating to the possibility of jeopardising the security of the Assembly, then they will take the appropriate measures that other laws leave for him to verify those facts and eventually agree with such views. As for the questions of presence and then the question of the Internet, I refer a respected colleague to Article 254. The Rules of Procedure, which provides for this and therefore simply in Article 254, provides, among other things, for the editing of the Croatian Assembly's website on the Internet and for the delivery of material in electronic form. Therefore, this Regulation could not without including that question and, of course, it had developed it to the extent possible and colleagues from the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system have consistently implemented it. Why does the transitional and final provisions of Article 19(2) provide that a new registration card will be given within 30 days of the entry into force of this Regulation? Because new registration cards practically have their own content that hasn't been as prescribed as it is here so far. Here, as you can see, it is indicated that the registration cards will show the name and last name, photograph of journalists, the name of the media and the label of journalists. Therefore, any such new card should first be drawn. It therefore takes some time, it was estimated at the Bureau of Parliament that the professional service is sufficient for 30 days because they themselves have shown at the Bureau of Parliament that such a time is sufficient to do so and such a solution, as proposed in Article 19, has been accepted, does this mean the issue of new registrations, i.e. accreditation. It means by issuing new ones, but it is quite clear that all those who have so far been issued, obtained registrations, or accreditations, that they will easily receive them if their houses continue to demand such a position, i.e. the issue of registration and accreditation by the Parliament's Professional Service, as is likely to happen that a large number or a smaller number will all be one thing, we will see what the journalists will show, will not at all request this registration and that they have been on record so far. Because somewhere over 500 or between 500 and 600 journalists, as you know, have been accredited in the Croatian Parliament so far, although it is quite clear and visible from this section that follows the session often, the working bodies of the Parliament and the Parliament themselves, that not even close to the number of journalists is never moving or located in this house. Whether they will all request or not their accreditation is a matter of their houses and them as free journalists if they do not work in newspapers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37013	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37014	So regarding Article 19, then, it was necessary for Mr. Dear fellow and to stand in Article 19 that the old would cease to be valid in that time limit and to issue new ones in that time limit. It's legal, let's stick to legal rules, legal practice, so let's not leave something to the instructions when we can get right to it. And as for the Internet, it can write, but the public of Parliament's work is being achieved via the Internet. If there's no website, if not via the website I don't know, so look, you know what the Internet is. The Internet is a broad term. The Internet, via the Web site of the Parliament, so be precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37015	Thank you. I'd like the Honorable Vice President, Matu Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37016	Mr. President, I would not take the floor personally, but since the motion for the Bureau of Parliament, therefore the institutions, it is quite clear that I have to answer even the correcting of the incorrect quote because the fact that what you are looking for in the Regulation is written, I quote: Article 19(2). "The Secretary of Parliament will issue new registration cards to the persons referred to in Article 12 of this Regulation within 30 days." Therefore, if they are new, then no more old ones, it is clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37017	Okay. I would now conclude with your permission this debate very interesting and vexable. Third. Proposal for a Regulation on the public work of the Croatian Parliament and of the working bodies. I am voting on the proposal for a regulation. Please engage. We can vote. The result? 100 votes for and 2 abstentions adopted by the Rules on the text as proposed by the Proposer or by the Presidency of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37020	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the Convention on the Employment and Allocation of Seafarers, proposed by the government that the Assembly was approved in 1996 by the International Labour Organisation. However, as the provisions themselves provided for, and the date of entry into force, it came into force four years later, on 22 April 2000. The Convention shall determine in an important way, the procedure for intervening in the employment of seamen, the system and the manner of authorising legal persons engaged in such employment interventions as well as the supervision by a Member State of legal persons who possess such ownership, i.e. full-time employment and conduct it. Unlike the previous Convention 9 which dealt with this same problem and which concerned only part of a specific category of seamen, this Convention on the Employment and Allocation of Seamen applies to all categories of seamen, thus to all crew members. It is also important to extend the concept of shipowners with this Convention. It no longer applies only to the shipowner but to the legal or natural person who has taken responsibility for the entire implementation effort, so in that part and the attitude towards the seamen which has not been the case so far, and which we have already included in the Croatian legal system the name of the company as the responsible person who has assumed responsibility for the management of the shipping undertaking by the end of last year. The main objective of the Convention is, firstly, to regulate in detail the conditions under which certain or natural or legal persons may even take part in the labour market and to intervene in the employment and deployment of seamen, to define on the other hand the system of authorisation of a natural or legal person who has registered for the activities of maritime intervention, to define the way in which the State controls those natural or legal persons and to make sure that the States certified by this Convention do not impose additional costs on seafarers in that intervention in respect of employment other than the cost of compulsory health insurance and the issue of a maritime book or authorisation for the training of seamen. It is also defined by the Convention as to what conditions individual natural or legal persons must provide or should possess in order to be able to engage in employment interventions at all. In short, what is important and what can be said is that this Convention would practically, by adopting it, and then by clearly incurring to the Croatian work system, allow the social system to liberalise the market in maritime employment. According to the Croatian Maritime Union, there are about 30,000 sailors in the Republic of Croatia. Seafarers, especially those who sail on foreign ships often renew their work contract and re-employ, which means that if most of them do so, there can be about 50 to 60 thousand maritime employment contracts in the Republic of Croatia annually. As at this time the Croatian Employment Service is the only mediator in the Republic of Croatia in employment, and so are the categories of sailors they have, for example, hired only two thousand sailors in the last three years. So a large part of the sailors solve their employment on foreign ships through other agents who otherwise have a contract with foreign shipowners and thus stays out of the Croatian labour and social rights system, which in some ways leads to their uncertainty on the one hand. Theirs and theirs, and their families. Therefore, if the Croatian Parliament confirms such a convention inevitably, this law would not necessarily mean that it enables other legal or natural persons in the Republic of Croatia to intervene in employment, but leaves the possibility that, on the basis of this, this Convention, by amending the Law on Employment Intervention and Rights during unemployment, we can also empower other legal persons in the Republic of Croatia to intervene in the employment of seamen, which is almost half-legal or otherwise carried out by a series of maritime agents in the Republic of Croatia at this time. We think that in this way we would practically allow seamen who sail on foreign ships under foreign flags almost the same legal and legal protection and position towards sailors who sail on Croatian ships, especially on ships of Croatian shipmen sailing in cabotage. This Convention was also supported by the Croatian Maritime Union, which is also supported by the association "Mare nostrum", which is why Croatian Shipmen's Associations, and I also agree with these agents who are now performing, are working on foreign ships under foreign flags. So to conclude the adoption of this Act does not require automatic amendments to the working legislation of the Republic of Croatia, but for these reasons, it would be opportunistic to make such changes and allow seamen who sail on foreign ships to have such positions as seamen who sail on ships under the Croatian flag. That's it. If there's any questions later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37021	Thank you, dear colleague. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Marko Turic, chairman of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37022	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 27th session of the Committee held on 18 May 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Employment and Allocation of Seamen from 1996 with the Final Proposal for a Law set up by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 15 April this year. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Members of the Committee shall not object to an urgent procedure in the adoption of this Act. During a brief discussion following the opening statement by the representatives of the proposing committee members, they supported the adoption of this proposal for a law. As they pointed out, the main objective of the Convention is to provide adequate legal protection to seamen in the field of employment intervention. The fact is that the services of intervention in the employment of seamen on foreign ships in the Republic of Croatia are performed only by the authorised and that is the Employment Service. In addition, in Croatia, a significant number of maritime agents are engaged in employment mediation. These companies also have direct access to the international labour market, and since they are not involved in the employment mediation system in the Republic of Croatia do not have to meet any criteria or subject to supervision. Therefore, the opinion of the Committee members is necessary to adopt this proposal for a law and to confirm the Convention which will become part of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and to allow the liberalisation of the labour market to enable others to engage in maritime employment under certain conditions and criteria. Afterwards, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the 1996 Convention on the Employment and Allocation of Seamen in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37023	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37024	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues really have no reason to continue this debate, but here I am when I signed up. Since the Convention regulates issues of mediation in the employment of seamen, systems and means of authorising legal persons involved in the employment of seamen, supervision of such legal persons, their obligations and responsibilities, and the primary objective is to provide adequate legal protection for seamen in the field of employment intervention and, as the State Secretary said in Croatia, we have about 30,000 seamen, and according to data in Split and Rijeka through the Employment Office in 2003 was 1150, and in 2002, a.k.a. 200. Here's how much traffic there is in that government space. And since, yes, this convention is practically "Take or Leave" at this stage, this is much better taken because it really regulates that one uncovered gray zone and the HDZ Club supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37025	Thank you very much. We don't have any more on behalf of the clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague of Peru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37026	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State at the Ministry has only a few sentences. Of course, as a representative, and even more so, I support the adoption of this Law confirming the International Convention as it provides adequate legal protection for seamen in the field of employment intervention. I've already proposed that the data was presented that was somehow defeated. Of the 30,000 Croatian high-quality sailors, the appearance of a ship with a Croatian flag is rare and the majority of people are forced to seek bread on ships of other flags. Competition in the international labour market, maritime labour is high. There are also unfair competitions because of situations that exist in some parts of the world. The promoter himself said that in 2002 and 2003, a total of about 1650 or slightly more or less of the seamen were employed through the Employment Service and that most of the jobs were actually carried out by maritime agents and other persons who do not have strictly prescribed conditions under which, in fact, safety would be guaranteed to seamen who accept and such jobs, and I know from experience that they are often fellow seamen from complex and individual blackmails and all that comes from it. Since the Convention in Article 4(2) also prescribed that the competent authority would ensure strict supervision of the employment and deployment services and that it would issue or renew authorisations, certificates or similar powers only after verifying that the relevant employment and deployment service complies with the requirements of national laws and regulations. I am not satisfied with the proposal's explanation, where the State Secretary has now pointed out in his opening statement, that it would be opportunistic to adopt appropriate amendments and additions to the Employment and Rights Intervention Act during unemployment, and to lay down the conditions for carrying out maritime employment activities by sublaw. I know that it is not in the power of the ministry, I suppose it is not the Ministry of the Sea but another resolution ministry, so I would be free to propose, by supporting both the urgent procedure and the adoption of this law, one conclusion that we would not remain in favour of, but rather that the Croatian Government be obliged to adopt, within a certain, appropriate period, amendments and additions to the Employment Intervention Act, which would achieve all of these objectives that the other Convention foresees, which are in agreement and consistent ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37027	Thank you, dear colleague. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Here you go. Word's got a colleague named Bacic, the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37028	Here, just for a little while, I'm going to say that our ministry is just standing at the point of view that it would be good to move forward with the amendments to the Employment Intervention Act, and we said that part of the reason. However, we cannot prejudge the adoption of this law by amending the second law, and we have been in talks with the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship in this regard and have prepared a number of other acts that contribute to the social security of the seamen. I think that these days it will also be brought by the minister a special instruction that will very much define the better position of the seamen in part of their social security, but that would not stop. One of the further steps is certainly to enable those who do so in the Republic of Croatia at this time, and these are maritime agents, to achieve the prescribed conditions based on this Convention to be legal or natural persons who can intervene in employment, but that the state clearly has strict control over it so that there is no clear manipulation, i.e. that there are no conditions to intervene in employment and that there is no further clarity with the gray or black labour market when it comes to Croatian sailors. So, we are in favour of moving forward and changing, but we cannot now prejudge the amendment of another law that must have a special procedure for its adoption by ratifying this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37029	Thank you, Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. This text of the law will be voted upon when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37030	Fifth, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the 1996 Convention on the Employment and Allocation of Seamen. Please engage. I am voting on this final bill. We can vote. The result? 97 votes for, 4 abstentions to the Act on Confirmation of the proposed Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37031	Moving to the next item of the agenda 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage, with the Final Proposal of the Law, is an urgent act, first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 287 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate on the bill was carried out by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received their reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. He does. The word has Mr. Jadran Antolovic, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the convention we proposed for confirmation was established in 2003 and so far has been ratified by 8 countries, and 30 countries are required to ratify it. Why does the Republic of Croatia want ratification of this Convention? There's a few reasons. One of the basic reasons is that in 1999, the Croatian Parliament, in the adoption of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, has provided for the possibility and prescribed the possibility of protecting immaterial, cultural goods, and, consequently, we have already had the practice and criteria according to which we have so far protected here for your information paška lace, paška weight, hvarska lace from nigava, leprechaun lace, while for many other cases we have launched the registration process. Also, at the invitation of UNESCO, the Republic of Croatia signed up for the World Intangible Heritage List in Croatia and the Istrian scale, and would therefore like to support this proposal and ratification of this Convention. Thus, the Republic of Croatia would be one of the first countries to build an international instrument, extremely important for the protection of heritage, cultural heritage as a whole. Next, we propose to the Parliament to discuss the bill and ratify the proposed convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37033	I thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? Yeah. The word has been given by the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37034	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 13th session held on 18 May the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Intangible, Cultural Heritage with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. 287. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The debate highlights the need for the Republic of Croatia, given its current legislation and efforts to preserve the immaterial cultural heritage, to access this Convention in a manner and procedure proposed by the proposings. In addition to what is particularly important, the need for representatives of Croatia who will participate in the work of the bodies of this Convention to work not only on its implementation in international and national proportions, but also to contribute to its improvement. In particular, the Committee supports this task as an example of the position given to the language in the Convention, which is particularly important for us and for small peoples in general, as a factor in the immaterial cultural heritage itself, which has not been sufficiently expressed in Article 2(2). The Convention where the importance of language is consistently relativised. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously concluded. It is proposed to the National Parliament to adopt a Law confirming the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage by an urgent procedure and in the form proposed by the Proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37035	Thank you, Mr. President of the Board. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate first. There's a respected colleague of Jagoda Maja Martinčević's. Here's some esteemed colleagues on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, the Croatian Democratic Community Club strongly supports this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage and for several reasons. What is an immaterial cultural heritage, or what does it mean? It means primary identity, preservation and respect for tradition, and in particular it means diversity in relation to other peoples and environments, given all present globalisation. Recognizing that the processes of globalisation and social transformation, with the conditions they create for renewed dialogue between communities, also lead to the phenomenon of intolerance to the serious risk of loss of these values, so the disappearance or destruction of the immaterial cultural heritage, and especially because of the lack of resources to protect it, is extremely important to put ourselves in a system in a world system that will know what the definition of identity is for Croatia. Because the immaterial cultural heritage means both the skills and the performance and the customs and the expressions and the skills of the names of instruments, objects, handicrafts and various other cultural spaces that many of us have recently spoken of as ruralism, as something that is no longer important, which is no longer worth it because there is a world going forward. And what our old man hated for us is some kind of approach that could lead us back. However, we see that in the world, even more and more nations are thinking about protecting their own identity, they want the world, and this is the way to protect what they have from old age. I'd just like to warn you of one more detail. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned several elements and components of Croatian cultural heritage which was entered in the Register of Cultural goods. We all know what lace is. We know what Paška lace is, we know what Lepoglavska lace is, and so is the project "Cipkarstvo in Croatia" which the Republic of Croatia is running for the third declaration of masterpiece of the immaterial heritage that UNESCO protects and promotes this segment is very important but also famous, recognized. However, on the registration list with everyone well-known Sinjska alka and Moreška as knight games, with the Festival of St. Vlah, or with old speeches and dialects of the waiting speech, is especially the Istrian scale. Almost no one knows who doesn't do it, which is the Istrian scale. The Istrian scale is a world wonder within music art as much as musical arts. She doesn't have a similar example in the world, she probably won't be. But there are musicians along the Istrian scale. And that's the soaps or the music players, those are the corneas that the Istrans know something about, but even we in Croatia and wider unless we're dealing with it we won't know what it's about. Her personality is absolute in world terms. And although many peoples can admire their special expressions just within the scale system, something like the Istrian scale is for all musicians from the world who first hear and learn something not only exotic, but something they absolutely never heard. Therefore, not only do we support but we really believe that this proposal for a law to confirm the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage, including all these elements, will contribute not only to the preservation, not only to the introduction of the world to what we really think is valid from our cultural history, but also to that universal will and common concern that the immaterial cultural heritage is protected at the level of the entire civilization. And therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club absolutely supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37037	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the HSP Club, dear colleague Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37038	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The HSP Club believes that Croatia has many reasons to ratify this Convention. Despite the fact that a small number of states have ratified this convention so far, because it's only been done somewhere around 8. And in order for it to enter and start to apply, it takes 30. I think we need to take other measures and efforts and diplomatic efforts to get this convention started and be ratified by 30 countries. Because we ourselves know that Croatia is an immaterial cultural heritage huge, that we are witnessing that from day to day it is stolen in a proper manner. It's not just a question of laces whether it's Leprechaun or if it's a question of Paska. It's a question of language. We ourselves have witnessed that there have been attempts by certain which have been speculation in the media that when we enter the European Union not to be the Croatian official language and such things. So that part is important for us to ratify this convention. Let us take the question ourselves and let us say that neither Ivo Andric nor Nikola Tesla nor many others are Croatian people. And that way we can accomplish a lot. We know for ourselves that this is already done in various-various encyclopedias or similar in Serbia or elsewhere. It's also a matter of a variety of expressions. We don't know how many of you he remembers that President Bush is even our sayings and our sayings trying to say they're American. That's the part that he had in the campaign, and it's about that old saying of ours, "If you cheat on me once, it's your fault, if you cheat on me twice, it's my sin." He used it in the campaign as some American expression. Let's just take the food recipe situation, cooking. All that means is this part where we can protect everything that's ours. Especially for a variety of traditional crafts. Therefore, there are many reasons to ratify it in both the Croatian Parliament and elsewhere so that it could be protected. Let's just say the gang question, maybe tomorrow someone will say it's theirs. So we have this treasure immaterial that we really have to protect. And then it even seems to me, why these other countries don't exactly go ratify, they might have problems with that. It's an interesting situation. For example, a small number has ratified so far, I see that within these countries where I have seen them specifically steal our stuff, but the good thing is that we, we will be the first European country to ratify this convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37039	Thank you, dear colleague Kovacevic. On behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Vujic. Here you go, colleague Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37040	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here we decided to say a few words on behalf of the club, no matter what we previously thought it belonged to all of those conventions that we simply accept as we accept them, which means by consensus and without any specific discussions. But it seemed to me, especially when we heard there were other clubs and we were going to say a few things that would be good to know this Parliament. This convention, which was normally adopted in 2003 in Paris, is actually the result of the great work of our Ministry of Culture in the past term. Among other things, what our Ministry of Culture is, and then here I am, let me use the first face of the unity even though I don't want it, which we were presidents of something called the international network... politics, which means the international network of cultural policies, which is one organization of the world that started primarily from Canadian initiatives, but then caught both Mexican and South American, South Africa, symposium all the way to Chinese and European, and that in Opatija we had exactly as hosts and as chairman of one year and central assembly. That's why it actually sometimes seems to me that we need to recognize in some things that come to us both as international things and our own presence. What is not here in this Convention, but which should certainly be accepted without further ado, and then, within the Committee, possibly act, it is something that is mentioned in one place that I am not looking for now, and where it is said that there are actually no international instruments or one strong international instrument that would protect cultural diversity, cultural identities especially in relation to the processes of globalisation and all that globalisation brings. So it may not be a problem to preserve the Croatian language, it is not a problem to preserve the Croatian cook. We can be proud if someone uses our dates somewhere else. The primary is the preservation of the languages of very small peoples who have neither literature nor the state behind them, but then they are also not material cultural heritage that is very often unrecognizable to us, and without it we would be very maimed if it were not there. So if this is also about the Istrian scale, if it's about gangs and reras, if it's about the silent wheel as well as something special, if it's about dancing, about individual instruments, but then it's also about the scales or the way you sing. This is what Croatia has done before and protected through the law on the protection of cultural heritage that includes both these elements and through one developed system and institutes and researchers and folklore institutes, etc. and that many lands did not have. This is, in fact, a relatively low level of this convention, which we very much need, and those who will possibly be I would recommend that Croatia be active in the committees that are predicted here, which is to move on, and to use already one of the pressures that we have had right over that international network... a policy on UNESCO to go further into the development of instruments compared to the WTO, in relation to the processes of globalisation that will protect certain segments of non-material and cultural heritage as elements of national or group or however you want special entities and cultural identities. So in this sense, we are happy to join the support to bring, to ratify this Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37041	Thank you, dear colleague Vujic. We no longer have any charges for the hearing, no individual reports for the hearing. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37042	Final draft law confirming the Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. We can vote. The result? 101 votes for, 2 abstentions to the Act of Confirmation of the Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37043	We will vote on the text of the law when the conditions are met. Moving to the next item on the agenda, item six. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Treaty on Loan No f/p 1456 (2003) for a project to restore and build school facilities in the Republic of Croatia, between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 286 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received their reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. The word has Mrs. Martina Dalic on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, State Secretary. Here's your esteemed secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37044	Thank you very much. It intends to build and restore 143 primary and secondary schools in 18 counties and the City of Zagreb that were directly affected by war damages or have a significant increase in the number of students who are exiles and refugees and who are affected by indirect war damages. The project also includes schools in which it has not been invested in the past 13 years, in which it is necessary to create conditions for quality follow-up. Its social impact, i.e. strengthening social cohesion and strengthening the quality of education, is of particular importance to this project. The total value of the project is 804.9 million kuna of which 402.45 million kuna intends to be financed from this loan. The terms and conditions of financing are the 15-year maturity, and the interest rate will apply to each loan withdrawal war depending on the current six-month libora. Today, this interest rate is 3.59%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37045	Thank you, dear colleague. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. We're moving on to the debate first and foremost, it's up to the representatives' clubs. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, respected counterpart Lugaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37046	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance. The SDP Club will support the adoption of this law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for a project to restore and build school facilities. The funds of this loan whose approval procedure began with the government's decision of 2003, as we heard from the secretary of state, construction and restoration of 143 primary and secondary schools in 18 counties and in the City of Zagreb. In the SDP Club, we agree with the evaluations set out in the reasoning of this bill, how the importance of this project is in its social component, primarily that of creating the necessary conditions for the provision of quality education and, accordingly, the Ministry of Education, which is just as it is stated in its reasoning, says that it wants to raise the level of quality in education by this project. That's an unquestionably good goal. However, we at the SDP Club want to warn, more specifically ask the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports which representatives are unfortunately not here, we want to ask them how schools will be built. There is an expert public debate on the adoption of Croatia's national educational standard. KNOS should, among other things, establish learning and teaching standards as part of increasing the quality of education. The experiences of some countries, such as Slovenia and Hungary, which are closest to us in the neighbourhood, which have carried out a curricular reform which is a tendency in Croatia, show that for a reform based on contemporary curricula theory, the important component and material conditions of work, as well as school buildings. The Slovenians, after having decided to go into reform in the early 1990s, had built and upgraded school buildings a few years before the implementation itself, increased classroom squares, of the three perpetrators worked two and so on. And then they started implementing new curricula and programs. They realized that buildings and customized classrooms were simply a prerequisite for introducing new standards into their school, i.e. new ways of teaching and learning, and in this context I would like to ask and warn that although KNOS is only in the manufacturing phase, we hear now, today are announcements to go to 5% of schools in the autumn, and we already approve a loan for building and building 143 school facilities, it is necessary that it had no means to invest in rational but in a pedagogical way by building schools that will be in line with the modern theory of curricula and suitable for new methods of learning and teaching. Or in short, new schools can't be worked in a way that's the same or similar to those we have so far, if we want to, and so far, we just want to reform the school with Minister Primorac's announcements. Of course, it is similar for the construction of school sports halls whose larger number is foreseen for the construction of the funds of this loan. It is also necessary to adopt standards for the construction of sports halls in order to optimally meet the needs of teaching, as well as the needs of local communities. In the second part of this debate, I would like to draw attention to another detail on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. The proposal for the conclusion of this loan was sent by the government and the competent ministries to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the Governor of the CEB in early June 2003. So almost two years ago. We do not understand why it has waited so long for this loan to finally come to ratification here in our Croatian Parliament. We consider it lost for at least a year which is not inescapable if we know especially about the poor condition of school facilities in the Republic of Croatia and especially in those parts that have suffered direct or indirect war damage. Secondly, the conditionality of the difficult environment is the fact that capital building, investment maintenance of schools and school facilities is in the domain or in the jurisdiction of cities and counties of which many, and I dare say most of them do not have sufficient resources in their budgets for these purposes. And finally. Although the criteria that schools and school facilities will enter this project are quite clear, schools that are directly or less directly affected by war damages or those schools that have not invested significantly in the last 13 years should be proposed by the SDP Club to include later school construction in the town of Dugo Selo because there are more than 1400 students in the existing elementary school in Dugi Selo, and the space by standard meets the teaching course for 800 students. As a result, it is one of the few schools where classes take place in extremely difficult conditions in 4 shifts and with a shortened class. We believe that, given the criteria that entered the programme of this loan, a number of sports halls. For example, the Vrbno District School, which belongs to the primary school of Bednja. This programme has been entered by the construction of a swimming pool in Sibenik to justify entering and building a school in Dugi Selo and we hope it will be accepted. The SDP advocates' club will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37047	Thank you, dear colleague. In the name of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague of the Arthrial Shima. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37048	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Framework Contract Act itself is not disputed, and there will probably not be any particular controversy about it, but we use it as a reason to present several important facts, those who actually follow this programme. It should be recalled that the imposed aggressor war has caused so many direct and indirect material, human and other victims to the Croatian state that this is almost irreparable. It is irreparable to many things, but one part of it, especially that material, could have been returned by our own means, by our own accumulation, but unfortunately, most of it was not possible to secure itself. It is also good to say, on this occasion, that we have almost run out of international financial assistance other than in these funds in which we have had, however, it is fortunate to have been able to use such resources. In addition, in the quiet one, it could be said to the war blockade of Croatia, Croatia became a full member of the Council of Europe in 1996, only then was it allowed to access certain funds. So we remember that the "CEB" programmes, it seems to me that five or six of them have been so far that about a dozen contracts or projects so far have been realised for these or similar purposes and that only because of that we have succeeded as a state to realize what we have achieved so far. With all those objections that we can hear at home at times, and even more from the outside that it is slowly being renewed, that it is slowly returning to return primarily, and then the restoration of school, health and other facilities that are financed from such programs. This is precisely why Croatia has failed so far, and why even at this time the same thing can be put to us, it has not been able to restore so many family houses or all of these objects that are necessary for life in this area, which have been hit directly by direct damages but also indirectly because unfortunately migration and most of the permanent migration has hit many centres. So it was special, were the pressures towards the main centres here in Zagreb, but also other centres. And these migrations have also caused certain disturbances and the need to invest and build such buildings in these centres. These projects have managed to bring most of the facilities and the most necessary ones into function and purpose so far, but there is much left to build. So now we see that this contract predicts 143 objects, which is a huge number. We have no doubt that these projects, especially objects or projects, if we want to be implemented in accordance with the programme that the Ministry of Science is preparing. That they are typical, standardised, that we probably have both opportunities and time to intervene. Of course, take advantage of that opportunity, intervene so that no valuable time can be lost, because this is fortunately half a year and we see there now in this second part that the state itself from its budget is participating with 50% of the funds. So this year, we are predicting that one part of the funds and indeed it would be special for such sensitive, school, health and other projects, any damage to one fiscal year, and that it is actually going to be with these projects, and that this will still be funded for two, three next year then I think that we think that there is quite enough time for us to comply with possibly new trends and in education, but also new requirements that will definitely come up because here is the project "Blackica" that the colleague cited. He came out later and further, but they accepted him as a project that could be accepted and financed by the programme. So they're giving the program. There are some facilities that have been in those individual projects and programmes of CEB that have not been realised. Therefore, there is always the possibility of a correction or some of those projects or new ones that will be within it, and therefore we keep that and the Croatian budget, the alliquoty part of its financial resources that is scheduled to be allocated in these years. It needs to be singled out. In this year, part of the funds has already been allocated, and at the end of the year I believe that it will be fully secured because it is at the end of a contract that we commit to allocate 50% of these necessary funds from some 800 million people. Ours is 400 and something million. Therefore, Croatia and we here, of course, in the Budget when we bring in, we must fight to remember that it is necessary each year to allocate an all-quota portion of the funds in order to be able to implement this framework contract and the obligations made by that contract. In any case, these technical data on the conditions of lending are cheerful because they are much more favourable than many others we have brought here, too, because for other purposes we are forced to use someone else's battery or imported when we don't have our own, and then it dictates the terms on the financial market. So even these conditions that are being offered here, it seems to me that recently we've been here discussing one loan asking questions and what are the other fees, so I'm particularly pleased that here is the last position. The rest of the fees say no. These fees are officially included in the programme, i.e. the cost of the CEB. We therefore propose that this framework agreement be supported. The urgency may be as discriminatory as any other at the end of the agreement but as half of the fiscal year we hold that for the realisation of these projects there is no reason not to adopt this framework contract by emergency procedure. And we support that adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37049	Thank you, dear fellow Wrestler. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's time for my dear colleague, Roxandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I think just a few sentences should say that certainly this bill has no doubt to support. First of all, because so far those loans that have been used to rebuild just school facilities have been quite well used. I come from such an area where 52% of the special state interest is and without these loans I can responsibly argue that in a large number of schools after the Homeland War I could not begin teaching at all because I have to tell you that they were really in such a bad state, abandoned, so some of these days from this programme we have to renew. No matter how much this project explains, 804.9 million kuna will be spent somewhere. This would directly finance 50% of the loan. So 50% of the budget will separate what is commendable and still remains from our state budget for the reconstruction of these projects. It certainly rejoices that the project plans 143 new school facilities, almost in all counties and even in the city of Zagreb that we know that one standard is far higher than in the other parts, especially those where this reconstruction is absolutely necessary. First of all, what my colleague Lugaric said. If we are to achieve the basic goals of developing a system of education and education, this means improving the working conditions of schools and their equipment and if we are in favour, and should be the basis for the Croatian national and educational standards of primary schools by the end of this year, with normal new and indicative national girls, this should really be the basis and basis for raising the quality of education. So that should be adapted to schools, means school facilities. The same is predicted for secondary schools that will particularly experience major changes in the system of vocational education. And most of these schools are not prepared at this time and are not so easily adapted especially in that part of the equipment of school workshops. I've already mentioned that I come from Sisak-Moslavina County, which is a part of these funds she's used very well in previous loans. That we restored 18 elementary schools and one district school, one sports hall. So I just want to say to my colleague that there has been a rise in education standards and quality and working conditions in these schools because in this area before the Homeland War there were no sports halls and yet in this restoration there has been a great deal of concern about raising this quality and creating really good conditions. So it's already been predicted without what we have, what we don't have now and what we really need to determine and I agree, the pedagogue standard, we've already been concerned about achieving better conditions. This is how schools in Donji Kukuruzari, a small village, Hrastovica, Vidujevac, Maja, and a sports hall in Petrinja will be restored in my area. I must tell you that this will also create better conditions in these rural areas, that children from school will return to their place of residence. Because I have to say, I believe that in most of the counties that were at war, children are driven up to 40 kilometers in one direction, unfortunately, in school, two, three children. And once we restore these little district schools, there will be really conditions that these kids don't have to get up in the morning at 6 o'clock and drive 40 and more kilometers in one direction and come back after class, too, two or three hours later. I also have to notice something, I see that from this loan is also invested in the city of Zagreb, in some schools in the city of Zagreb, which is also worth commending for. But unlike many underdeveloped cities, I will mention that the city of Zagreb has schools in very poor condition that does not cheer me at all. I've been to a few elementary schools, and I have to say, I've been amazed at how many abandoned spaces they are. So I think the city of Zagreb would also have to allocate more funds, because it is able by its budget, precisely in the best quality of its schools, equipment and order. And here's for all these reasons, just so much. I don't think there's any doubt this law will be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37051	Thank you very much. Replica coworker Lugaric. Here's my colleague, Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37052	Dear colleague Roksandić, although we fully agree, but we understand each other perfectly well. Speaking of the need to adopt standards for school sports halls, I didn't mean so much about the standards that are necessary for these pedagogical standards that are necessary for the teaching of physical education, but that standards should be adopted so that this hall can also benefit from the needs of the local community. There were examples where there were too few halls and they were not in that sense polyvalent to meet the needs of local sports clubs in certain sports where they were active. That's it. As far as the city of Zagreb from this loan is concerned, it is planned to build a sports hall for a school in Sesveda and nothing more or less. And the 2005 City of Zagreb Budget included funds for the construction of 5 new schools and halls in the upper Dubrava, but also significant funds for the investment maintenance of the premises themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37053	Replication response. Dear colleague Roxandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37054	I appreciate your response, colleague Lugaric. I will start with this second one, that only from this loan is the co-finance of construction or construction, as you say, sports halls. That makes me happy. But when I was talking about the city of Zagreb, I was thinking about the arrangement of schools. I have to tell you, I'm going back to Sisak-Moslavina County where we keep talking about what the situation is, and I'm going to say that at this point Sisak-Moslavina County is from its own budget building two sports halls and a large crafts school. So without any support, without any kuna from the state budget or from this loan. When I thought that, I thought we should invest as much as possible. And normally I say hello, I'm here in that profession and I welcome the construction of every new school. As for these criteria for the construction of sports halls, I agree with you that there were no certain standards, so often local communities are just so that as much as possible, I would say that they would be able to save money by reducing those sports halls. But I think that too should be taken care of in the smaller environments that it is tailored to the needs of citizens, all citizens, and not just schools. We're a good example again, I won't brag, but it turns out that way. Once again a good example of where we have added our own resources to all those that are the state budget, i.e. the ministry so far wanted to build standards and build and adapt our sports halls to the benefit of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37055	Thank you, too, dear colleague Roxandić. The final word of a colleague... in which it will be manifested to the amendments of the Committee on Legislatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37056	I wanted to explain in the part relating to the length of this process's completion. So I wanted to clarify that the process is relatively long because it includes both the Council of Europe and the Bank and their mutual, and their mutual agreement on this whole financial package. However, I do not think that this has had a material impact on the essence of this project, which is to rebuild these school facilities, because it is basically a business that will be financed from this loan already under way. In 2004, part of the job was done. The 2005 budget also provides for funding. And then all the funds spent in this project before the entry into force of the framework contract will be retroactively financed from the loan immediately after the entry into force of this Framework Agreement. The Legislative Committee gave two, giving nomotechnical amendments to the legislation to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37057	Thank you, therefore, for the amendments to the Legislative Committee to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Loan Treaty have been adopted. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37058	Sixth, Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Loan Treaty for a project to restore and build school facilities in the Republic of Croatia between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank. Please engage. The amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the applicant. We can vote. The result? With 100 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, a proposed law with an amendment adopted by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37059	We move to the next item of the agenda – 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Treaty on loan number f/p 1498 (2004) for a project to build municipal and social infrastructure facilities on the Croatian Islands between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 290 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. There's again Mrs. Martina Dalic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37060	Thank you very much. The project to build municipal and social infrastructure on islands is a project aimed at creating a prerequisite for sustainable development and improving the overall quality of life on islands. The goal is to reduce the negative effects of negative demographic trends, prevent people from leaving the island and encourage the return of the population to the islands. The components of the project are water supplies, especially on medium and small islands. Building a system of disposal, improving care and care for older people, improving the health care system and ensuring better quality education. The total value of the project is 769.8 million kuna, of which 25% is intended to be financed from loans from the Council of Europe Bank and 193.3 million kuna respectively, 25% of the project will be financed from the state budget and 50% from the budget of the units of local administration and self-government. The payment deadline is 20 years, and the principal's payoff is five years. According to today's interest rates, the interest rate to be applied to the loan is 3.59%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37061	Thank you, dear colleague. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line are as usual, club representatives. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Brnadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Framework Agreement for a project for the construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe's Development Bank confirms a loan framework contract of 193 million 364 thousand 371 kuna intended for the project of building facilities of municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands implemented by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. The aim of this project is to raise the overall quality of life on our islands to reduce the trend of eviction and enable the population to return to our islands. This project will address the most painful points of the island, which are water supply, wastewater disposal, inadequate care for the elderly, health care, reconstruction and construction of school facilities. The implementation of this project is responsible for the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, as I have already said in the introduction. The total project value is 769 million 814 thousand kuna. The funding model has already been said by the State Secretary, so 25% of the CEB loan, 25% of the state budget and 50% of the local self-government units budget. I would briefly refer to why the Council of Europe Development Bank was chosen for this loan. In particular, of the four international financial institutions benefiting from the Republic of Croatia, the Council of Europe Development Bank or the Ceb with the European Investment Bank or the shortened EIB approve the most favourable loans in terms of the maturity that is for this loan for 20 years and with other financial institutions, the maturity cannot be longer than 15 years. At the interest rate, this bank is also the most competitive because it does not charge any other costs, and in costs are usually the usual initial fee and fee for not withdrawing approved loans. The interest rate shall be determined by a special contract for each individual war at the time of withdrawal and on the basis of the then valid euro or US dollar increase for the CEB margin. On 12 May 2005, the interest rate was heard, 3.59%. Out of a total of 15 programmes from the National Development Programme, four programmes have been included in this project, including the state water supply, disposal and treatment of waste water, as well as the construction and maintenance of facilities to protect against the harmful effects of water on islands. National programme for health care and development of telemedicine on islands, the state programme for pre-school education and primary and secondary education on islands and the state welfare programme on islands. The projects to be financed from this programme are already defined so I will list the islands of settlements where water supply will be solved, which are Mljet, Korčula, Lastovo, Brac, Solta, Drvenik Veli, Mali, Kapre, Žirje, Premuda, Molat, Olib, Silba, Vrgada, Žmansko Lake, Soline on Long Island, Pasman, Kukljica, Ugljin and Poljana on the island of Ugljan, Susak, Union and Rab. Wastewater disposal will be settled in Vela Luka, Blato, Lumbarda, Orebić, Trpanj, Milna, Povlja, Selca, Puntinak, Jelsa Vrboska, Stari Grad, Sucuraj, Kali, Preko, Ugljan, Povljana, Vir, Novalja, Martinčica, Lopar, Supetarska Draga and Susak. The facilities in Korcula, Vela Luka, Mljet, Stari Grad na Hvar, Vis, Ugljan, Pasman, Dugi Otok, Krka and Losinj will be financed to improve the care and care of older people. In order to improve the health care system, either reconstruction, construction or equipment of health institutions will be invested in Korčula, Vis, Jelsa, Ugljan, Pasman, Viru, Nevidene, Božava, Silba, Molat, Brgulje, Zapuntel, Veli Rat, Dragova, Verunić, Soline, Zverinac, Zaglav, Luka, Savar, Brbinj, Mali Iž, Vela Rava, Sotomisčica, Lukoran, Sestrunj, Rivanj, Premuda, Olib, Union, Susak and Lovik. For ensuring better education are defined programs for Kolocep, Šipanska Luka, Sućuraj, Lopud, Ciovo, Drvenik, Veli Zlarin, Prvic, Veli Iž, East, Olib, Premuda, Silba, Mali Lošinj, Susak, Unje and Lovik. The use of loan funds is projected until 2007 when the project should be fully completed. As a borrower, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself on a regular basis and fully implement all financial obligations arising from the implementation of the project. The Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide 193 million 364 thousand 371 kuna in state budgets from 2004 to 2022 to co-finance the project and the additional funds needed to pay taxes and customs duties not financed by the loan. The financial resources necessary for the implementation of the project and for the payment of the principal and interest at the time of payment will be secured in the state budget under the division of the Ministry of Finance for the entire duration of the loan framework contract, i.e. until 2022. The State budget for 2004 lists the amount of 30 million kuna in the financing account, and in the share of the Republic of Croatia, funds are also planned in the amount of 42 million and 500 thousand kuna. A total of 59 million 834 thousand and 1707.96 kuna were spent to implement the project as of 31 December 2004. In 2005, 126 million 971 thousand 214 kuna were secured, and a withdrawal of 45 million 253 000 717 kuna is projected. All funds spent in the project prior to the entry into force of the loan framework contract will be retroactively financed from loans immediately after the entry into force of the contract. So this loan plans to solve the main problems on our islands. Non-existent or inadequately built water supply and disposal, inadequate care for the elderly, inadequately resolved health care and inadequate education system, and the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a framework loan contract for a project to build municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37063	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Slavko Linic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37064	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club also supports the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a framework loan contract for the construction of coastal, municipal and social infrastructure. On behalf of the Club, they can also point out that as Croatia, we can also be satisfied with our cooperation with the Council of Europe Development Bank. And especially if we remind ourselves of projects that have been implemented precisely and on municipal infrastructure in Slavonia, a major and significant role in the restoration of schools and school infrastructure, but I would say the same to our major problems as healthcare and entrepreneurship. So this great experience and positive experience in relations with the Development Bank of Europe is something that must certainly affect all structures in the state administration or, but I would say also at the level of administration of local and regional self-government. My predecessor and colleague have already indicated the importance of municipal and social infrastructure on the islands and how important water is, water draining. How important investments are to facilitate and improve the quality of people on the island. But I think it also needs to highlight the importance of these investments, which will, in fact, through environmental protection, also have a positive impact on our adaptation to the European Union, but certainly also on the development of tourism and economic activity, because this quality and cheap investment will, however, I would say the price of life on islands and the entry costs for economics will be acceptable in spite of, I would say, the problems of land-island connection. What we like to point out as SDPs is what we are not satisfied with and what we all need to do with a certain chill. It is the procedure for the coming of this Law before us, the parliamentary representatives. Less and more and more competent ministry, and units of local self-government and regional administration, self-government facilities, projects have been defined already in 2003. Probably because of the change in government of the Republic of Croatia, the government discussed an agreement with the Development Bank of Europe only in the seventh month of last year. Although the process at the Development Bank is also complicated and difficult. In just 4 months, the Development Bank of Europe has made the necessary decisions and this has resulted in the signing of the contract already at 12 months. Today's the 5th month. We only now have confirmation or I would say the adoption of this Act in the Croatian Parliament. So a year of procedures not talking about objects because the facilities were essentially before the government discussed them were negotiated between the state administration and local and regional administrations. Thus, too much time lost in administrative affairs, and we ourselves know how important it is to implement certain facilities in local infrastructure very quickly because of the economic growth rate. How important it is for local self-government and economic development to be realised as soon as possible, I would say projects. At the same time that certain units of local self-government did not have the opportunity to wait on these funds, they came up with different ways of funding because they are part of the projects. So one, I would say a good method, an experience where we are trying to connect the resources of the State budget, the resources of regional self-government and local self-government with quality credit sources is something that is essentially due to the administrative process and the negative connotation. And that is something that we must seriously be concerned about, and we would have to make a simple request to the competent ministry that this procedure be reduced as much as possible to in some ways the activities of local self-government, and I would say the questions of local self-government especially in this project "Life on Islands" simply as quickly as possible at a higher quality and level. The bitter taste remains and the question of whether we'll be less up-to-date in front of the access funds as well. Because at that point all the effects we could get again will reduce our time distances and administrative procedures. I therefore conclude on behalf of the Club we agree and accept the bill. We are pleased with the continued cooperation with the Development Bank of Europe but we appreciate the dissatisfaction with the speed of administrative resolution of this Act and we warn the competent ministries that such failures should not happen when continuing the financing and withdrawal of funds from pre-accession funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37065	Thank you, dear colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is a respected colleague of Jure Bitunjac's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37066	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll say a few words about this bill. When it comes to this loan of 193 is, 193 million kuna, and it is related to solving, improving the quality of life on our islands. Allow me before I show my support for this proposal to be given at the very beginning of a certain remark. In the case of a total project that weighs nearly 800 million kuna, the following is that with the funds mentioned, 25% should be included in the same project by 25% and local self-government units by 50%. In view of my experience and knowing the islands at least when it comes to Split-Dalmatin County, and my experience when it comes to working in local self-government units, I find it difficult to find different funding models and in terms of participating the local self-government units. I see there in some way the chance of those units and the access funds. But I think it will be necessary to find other models and other ways, and I mainly think that the state will have to participate more significantly in a complete project that is difficult to repeat, almost 800 million kuna. I think that this should be clear to all of us if we bear in mind the fact that islands are still a border area, borderline when it comes to, if we also talk about the economic and economic sense, but given not the migration of the population, the ways, the conditions of life and we can talk about the non-cultural but also the social sense anyway. I would say that this decision, which is before us, is the proposal of this law that I welcome, in fact, that it is part of the government's policy when it comes to the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia and our islands, and I believe that these people, these islands, should be helped primarily by those who live all the time. But islands have their second dimension during the season. I'll talk about it later. I will mention just one more fact that in the area of Split-Dalmatia County, which numbers 463 thousand inhabitants live on the islands and on the surface of cca 915 square kilometers. These 34 thousand inhabitants were once there, at the beginning of the century on the island of Brac. And that trend of demographic devastion of the island so to speak, that one rough expression, I think it is still present and I am sure that this government through economic policy measures, as well as Split-Dalmatia County will certainly do all that to make a permanent shift. When it comes to investment itself, and I think it should start with two facts, but it's already in the jurisdiction of not the Ministry of Finance but other ministries. These are the permanent needs of islanders, people living on islands and therefore certain capacities of social, infrastructure and should be adapted to them in some way and give them a quality life throughout the year. On the other hand, we have seasonal needs that occur in the summer months and in some way where the state, where units of local self-government must find answers for these seasonal needs when it comes to municipal infrastructure, means adapting capacity when one island now numbers 10,000 inhabitants in the summer has 80, 90 or 100 thousand. And also this second, social part that arises, because certain needs arise for people who come to the islands. So that's quite a complex, complex matter that needs to be approached adequately. The costs are high, however, given that the Adriatic orientation, i.e. the maritime orientation of the Republic of Croatia, is part of the state policy, then I am sure that the effects of each invested kuna will be returned on a multiple basis. Another need is being imposed, but it enters another area. These are the prices of services and goods of broad consumption and, above all, utility. We know that if certain capacities are available, I will just take them, if they do not work throughout the year with one full capacity, or if they are not used that they are de facto become one great cost and that through the price of water, and this applies to other municipal services that they are multiplying and that they are far greater than they are in the coastal part, i.e. in the continental part of the state. On this side of the unit local self-government must by their budget... Such companies because I know the problems of both Vis and Brač and Hvar municipal societies and the problems they have been going through, de facto they have been in a blockade, some have threatened bankruptcy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The intervention and participation of local self-government units throughout this project should therefore be taken seriously. And I'm sure that the competent ministries and governments will do the same, and that the model that's right here in front of us will have to, whether or not we want to see any changes in our lives. I generally believe that the obligation of all of us in the Parliament, regardless of the belongings of any political party or option, is to support this proposal. The people on the islands must remain, it is a state and national interest on the one hand. And on the other hand, such border areas, I repeat in terms of economic terms, so if you want to, and in a social sense, social areas need to be helped. And in that direction, I welcome this decision. This is one big step, but I mean not the last one when it comes to intervention on life, life and management on our islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37067	Thank you, dear colleague. It's all right, dear colleague Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I want to discuss a little differently, not to challenge the conditions under which the loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank is obtained, but I want the debate to focus on borrowing. I would like to ask and raise the question whether Croatia is lightly in debt. Perhaps this is not the best example because there is no dispute that on Croatian islands we need to build a communal and in-in infrastructure because it will come back to us through tourism, of course if we know how to master. The question I want to ask. Are we even in need of this loan and are we over-indebted and finally as a state strategy how to reduce debt and get out of a new borrowing chain? This proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan framework agreement for a project to build island infrastructure facilities also raises some questions. First and foremost, is it enough for us to invest 600 million kunas without loans in the development of island infrastructure by 2007? So that's the basic question. Or 800 million kuna with a loan? Because the purely mathematical loan provided by the European Bank is about 200 million kuna or 25%, the contract commits to the state budget and another 400 million or 50% to local self-government units. A country with a debt greater than the annual budget must finally add up and subtract and analyse where further borrowing leads. If the debt has exceeded the annual budget then we must ask the question of where it is going and are we able to manage the country? And now there's a little depression as I see it, actually. Today, we are trying to organise and coordinate to exercise the right to use the funds in front of the EU's accession funds of around 300 million dollars. And at the same time, all the banks were sold to foreigners who were rescheduled by hundreds of millions of kunas. We sold Telekom, too. Well, these banks and Telekom have shown a profit of 3.4 times the amount of money they make in front of the access funds we're actually fighting for in the last year. This is a good warning to how we do it. And I think it's high time to go out with a reduction strategy or even a state's end of debt. We can only be in charge of the creation of new jobs, i.e. the opening of production plants, because it only guarantees and guarantees the return of credit. Of course, it is not easy when you create a habit of spending beyond your ability, or more than you earn. Every day we witness the bombing of citizens with favourable consumer housing and loans, but there is no credit for production plants. So today they advertise the latest loan packages that offer favourable loans so that you can pay for housing or those other already raised loans. I'm afraid she's over-indebted and state and citizen and it's high time for bad habits to change, because she's a man who's in charge beyond his means. If he is unable to serve his debt, he is not free or independent, and so is the state. This is another one of those loans they say can't be refused. It is my opinion that there is no favourable loan for the over-indebted country. The contract shows it's a serious loan that will take 20 years to pay back what I want to warn you about. Can we build the infrastructure on our islands with our 600 million kuna own funds without loans or take 200 million kuna more with the control of projects from European lenders? Given our responsibility, I think we should do this without loans because it really matters whether we finish the infrastructure in 2007 or 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37069	Thank you, dear colleague. It's time for you to meet your esteemed colleague, Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Loan Treaty for projects for the construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank, with the Final Proposal of the Law and the Law confirming the Framework Loan Treaty of 193 million kuna intended for the project of building facilities of social and municipal infrastructure on Croatian islands. This project is a project by the Croatian government and the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. The financing of social and municipal infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands aims at raising the quality of life on islands and facilitating the difficult living conditions on islands. It also aims to stop the trend of evicting the population that is highly expressed. The Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development is responsible for the implementation of the projects. I hope this project will successfully realise the pleasure of our islanders. The funds necessary for the implementation of the law other than from this loan will be provided in addition to the local self-government of Croatia, which undertakes to provide the financial resources needed to implement the projects and to pay the principal and interest in the state budget by 2004 to 2022. At the time of payment, it will be secured in the state budget within the level of the Ministry of Finance for the entire duration of the Loan Framework Agreement, i.e. until 2022. The state budget for 2004 lists the amount of 30 million kuna in the financing account, and plans are made in the share of the Republic of Croatia amounting to 42 million and 500 thousand kuna. A total of 59 million kunas were spent to implement the project as of 31 December 2004. For 2005, 126 million kuna were secured, and a withdrawal of 45 million and 253,000 kuna is projected. All funds spent in the project prior to the entry into force of the Loan Framework Agreement will be retroactively financed from loans immediately after the entry into force of the contract. This loan and state resources, as a means of local self-government, will certainly help and contribute to the easier and better quality life of our islanders. This is how the state takes care of islands, and this is a clue to the government's promise and the island law where they are placed in areas of first-class national interest. I hope that priorities will be identified and truly what is not needed for the islands, that our islands will not live only during the tourist season but throughout the year. And finally, we support this law because our islanders really deserve the state to take concrete steps and in this quality way solve the basic facilities of municipal social infrastructure on the islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37071	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bekavac. Would you like to take the closing word? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this text of the law when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37072	Seven, Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan framework contract for a project to build municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Secretary of State Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37073	The amendments of the Legislative Committee shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37074	Thank you. They become an integral part of the law if the law is passed. Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 100 votes, 102 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed law together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37075	We're going to the next item on the agenda. 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on cooperation in the fight against crime, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 288 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. The word has Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary of the Interior Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37076	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honored ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just for a little while. Minister of the Interior Mr Marijan Mlinarić signed with the Minister of Interior of the Arab Republic of Egypt that contract in Cairo on 22 November 2004 and this contract is another one in a series of bilateral contracts signed by the Ministry of Interior with both European and non-European Union countries, aimed at improving cooperation in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, the exchange of information and data on persons involved in the illegal production and trafficking of intoxicating drugs and the signing, i.e. ratification of the application of this contract, should allow much easier cooperation between signatories countries in the fight against and organised crime and terrorism. Since the application of this law does not bear any cost, I suggest that it be adopted by an urgent procedure in such a text as is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37077	Thank you. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? They don't want to. We don't have any charges to discuss. Is anyone applying for a hearing? No, I don't. I am concluding a debate that has never happened and I am announcing that we will vote on this text of the law when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37078	Eight, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on Cooperation in the fight against crime. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 102 votes for and 2 abstentions passed by the proposed law. Final proposal for a law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry and/or stay is illegal. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 103 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37079	We're going to the next item on the agenda. Nine. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry and/or stay is illegal, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 289 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The word is from counterpart Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary of the Interior Ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37080	Thank you very much. This contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway is also one of the bilateral agreements signed by the Ministry of Interior with other countries' competent institutions. The contract signed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs with the Ambassador of the Kingdom of Norway to the Republic of Croatia on 24 January 2005 is here, and this treaty whose ratification is proposed is a regulated procedure for the reception and return of persons entering or staying illegally in the area of these two countries signatories of this contract. As the borders are being abolished over time, they are becoming more and more permeable, as people are increasingly mobile, and it is necessary to regulate these procedures of reading or returning persons in the areas of any country unlawfully. By signing this contract or its ratification, both the competent institutions of the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Croatia will receive instruments of much more effective treatment for the persons entering or found in the illegal stay either in the territory of Norway or in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I also suggest that we bring it in as an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37081	Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line are representatives' clubs. The first is on behalf of the HSP Club, a respected colleague, Pero Kovacevic. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37082	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Croatia, the Croatian Party's right club will support the proposed contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Norway. We also know that this is one of the steps towards the European Union. We have more similar contracts like this. As far as I'm aware, we're also familiar with Germany, and now we might go a little bit beyond the subject of this debate, but I have to warn you of a fact that has already been presented in the media. It refers to Croatia to our citizens in Germany who have German citizenship, and this also applies to German citizens who have Croatian citizenship. There are some of them here. Under the Law of Germany since 1913, they have until 30 June of this year to declare whether, according to German regulations, they can have other citizenship. So no double citizenship is allowed, and that's a big problem. There was no speech at all from the foreign ministry and the MUP's position. If they do not resolve it, they will be deported from Germany. They will be deprived of German citizenship. Then they automatically get into a situation where they don't have work permits or anything else. I therefore ask the Ministry of the Interior to address this problem because of two facts. Namely, if they go to seek discharge from citizenship means that in this case they will have to ask for the obvious that they would like to stay in Germany and we know that they have acquired German citizenship, they will have to ask for a discharge from Croatian citizenship or go to, which is the legal shorter procedure of the declaration of, give a statement of denial from Croatian citizenship. That's a big problem. There's Mr. Mak and everyone else. I was approached by a few Germans who have Croatian citizenship, in the airport and everywhere. On behalf of the HSP Club, I would ask that measures be taken and that people are informed in due time and that they do not come into the situation that can happen to them. We know that Germany has introduced it, Austria is already doing it. This was introduced in my opinion, according to my information about Turkey and the problem of unemployment in Germany and everything else, but this should, through both the media and other ways, inform our citizens who also have German citizenship how they can decide not to apply the provisions of such or similar agreement this time with Germany on the acceptance of persons who are entering or staying illegal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37083	Thank you, dear colleague Kovacevic. We're moving on to an individual debate because there are no more clubs. First in line is colleague Frano Piploic. The problems are about coalitions, so he's gone. It's my dear colleague Ivan Vukic. ... He's not here either. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We therefore no longer have any reports to discuss. We conclude the debate and we will vote on this text of the Law when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37084	Final proposal for a law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry and/or stay is illegal. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37085	Moving to the next item of the agenda: 10. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium on police cooperation, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 292; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received their reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an explanation? Yeah. The word is from a respected colleague, Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary of the Interior Ministry. Here's your colleague, Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37086	Thank you very much. It's also very short. The explanation is almost identical to that of the previous two laws. Namely, Interior Minister Marijan Mlinaric signed with Home Affairs Minister and Belgian Deputy Prime Minister Patrick Devell on 19 October 2004, and we consider this contract to be very important and valuable because Croatia is seeking to establish relations with all the countries of the European Union and this contract with the Government of the Republic, the Government of Belgium, the Kingdom of Belgium will certainly significantly raise the effectiveness of the co-operation between the Ministry of Interior of the Two States. We believe that it is not enough that Croatia and the Ministry of the Interior are working together with other countries within the INTERPOL but that these bilateral agreements have proved to be much more effective in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, and in particular the emphasis was placed here on the information exchange procedure between the two interior ministries, so that the confirmation of this contract will significantly improve and simplify the cooperation between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Belgium and I suggest that it be adopted in the proposed text by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37087	Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. No one's answering anymore. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this course of the law when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37088	Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium on police cooperation. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 104 votes for unanimously passed proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37089	Moving to the next agenda point: 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Telecommunications, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 294; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was held by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received their reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? No, I don't. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have a record on behalf of the clubs. We have individual reports. The first in line is the esteemed fellow Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. Is anyone else checking in? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the text of the law tomorrow. And since we don't have any more conditions for further work, I wish you a good afternoon vacation. I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and we'll interrupt the session today and we'll continue at the scheduled time tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-18-0.u37090	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Telecommunications Act, P.Z.E. number 294. Please engage. We can vote. The result? The proposed law passed with 69 votes for, 3 abstentions and 33 against. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with a session on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 295. The legislator is the Government, when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. I ask Secretary of State Ivica Buconjic to further explain the proposal.
