ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50936	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! You have a regular annual report on the work of the Croatian State Attorney's Office in 2004 methodologically done in the same way as last year when you discussed it about this time. The annual report was made methodologically to show the state and movement of crime, to give an indication of the state of protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia but also to give an overview of the work of the state's attorneys on this particular issue. During the last year, the work on these civil and criminal cases was carried out by twenty county attorney's offices and sixty municipal state's attorney's offices and USKOK as a specialised state attorney's office. The first part of our report shows the work of state attorneys in the work of criminal cases, i.e. the movement and structure of crime. Of all things, there was an increase in crime by 2% last year more than in 2003, but at the same time there was a decline in the number of known perpetrators and an increase in unknown perpetrators which is a very important data for themselves worrying. Graphical images give you a very good picture of the movement of this crime, especially in the last seven, eight years so that you can monitor the regular state and movement of crime in that area. In particular, there is a significant picture of the movements of unknown perpetrators from 1998 to 2004. A graphic display showing that every year the number of unknown perpetrators is growing which is not good and worrying and I think it is necessary that, in the next period or in this and next years, the authorities of the discovery first and foremost take as much energy as possible steps towards detecting the perpetrators. Unknown perpetrators mainly refer to the crimes of property nature, so theft, heavy theft, robbery, etc. Interestingly, this graphic display shows that in 1998 there were 26 thousand 571 unknown perpetrators, or unknown application, and this year 47 thousand and 499. However, regardless of this, in one of the following charts, we have shown the movement of criminal returns across certain regions, the counties in the Republic of Croatia and show the information that is in front of you that the area of Pula, as last year, is the county of Istria, is the most represented in relation to hundreds of thousands of inhabitants, and that 3 thousand 879 known perpetrators or crimes were reported in the Pula area last year. The first next one is Zagreb with 3 thousand 762. Why Pula? Why Istria? The analysis is only because it is a tourist site and most of these crimes are carried out through the three most important summer months and it is mainly about property crimes. As last year, we gave a comparison with the surrounding countries compared to the number of perpetrators per 100,000 inhabitants, and it shows that the Republic of Croatia continues to be more calm compared to the number of crimes on the number of inhabitants and that much less crimes are committed in the Republic of Croatia than in neighbouring countries. For example, in the Republic of Slovenia 3 thousand and 869 compared to 2 thousand and 177 in the Republic of Croatia, Hungary 4 thousand and 100, Austria 7 thousand 200 etc., etc. As for the structure of crime as well as earlier years, first of all, property crimes and then drug crimes, drug abuses, and then just economic crimes, etc. Acting on criminal charges received last year, the state's attorneys mainly resolved most of these criminal charges. The awareness of the work of the state's attorneys is as great as last year, so eventually there is no left in the state's attorney's office or very few unsolved criminal cases, somewhere around a three-day inflow, which is negligible. This does not mean, however, that there was no remaining in the work of pending cases or that all cases were resolved within such a short period of time. Therefore, during this year, I have introduced a monitoring and a list of all older cases, over six months old, so that we have control over all these items that will be dealt with as the law requires and relatively quickly. Of course, this non-resolvement of objects does not primarily go to the public attorneys because the items are in work with other state bodies or various skills, etc., etc. As for the type of decisions taken in the state's attorney's offices on criminal charges filed in one of the graphic displays and the number of indicators, it was given that the number of rejections was 33.8% slightly lower than it was last year. The investigation is 8.4%, which is already the second or third year in a row a good indicator that first confirms that the amendments to the law several years ago have resulted in the fact that the number of investigative procedures is being conducted in a smaller number than it was before because it is not necessary. Secondly, taking into account the tendencies that investigative actions such as those in most European countries are being abolished, and we in the state's attorneys have sought to carry out as little investigation as possible through the courts as we relieve them of their work and the backlogs they have. 57.7% is a direct charge so that this graphic representation gives you a picture of our work in these cases. It is also interesting to point out from the criminal problem that through these rejections of criminal charges in addition to those of rejections relating to the absence of criminal offences which, by nature of things, results from the quality of the application or the reported event is seeking to be applied, etc. the alternative ways in which criminal cases are resolved, and where they are involved, it rejects the application of the institute of minor social hazards referred to in Article 28 of the criminal application, but also the application of an institute that is very important and discharging courts and contributes to the more efficient work of the courts. Several years ago, a criminal law was imposed on the Institute of Criminal Warrants, and the state's attorneys in the past year filed a total of 6 thousand 592 fines which 81% ended without objection. So the defendants accept a criminal order. No complaints. There's no discussion. No proceedings, no convictions. And factual decisions have been made by judgmental decisions. However, I have made certain remarks with regard to these criminal orders in a certain way to lower national attorneys because I believe that this 81% indicator of criminal orders which are not subject to an objection points to a possible conclusion that we may be too mild in relation to the proposals for penalties. Data on the results of investigations, withdrawals and so on are on the standard percentages of the success of the results of the work so that nothing should be said in this direction. It's kind of a verdict. In the past year, 87.1% of all charges ended with a conviction which is a very good indicator and shows that we basically qualified our indictments or went to trial. 7.6% are liberating and 5.3% judgmental. In order for me to personally be satisfied as a criminal, I would like these two numbers to be turned around against liberating and refuting. I believe that perhaps the prosecutors in the debate should be more critical in terms of the absence of a timely one when it appears that there is not enough evidence, but that is one, one observation of an internal nature that is not in itself relevant. I'm saying the important thing is that 87.1% is a judgmental verdict. And unlike last year, almost 3% is an increase in unconditional prison sentences. So in 2004, there were more unconditional prison sentences than last year when there were about 10.8%. They are generally imposed in addition to prison sentences that take place with 12.8% are primarily suspended sentences that are 66.3% represented, and then fines 17.4%. We are about at some European standards, but I still think that prison sentences and criminal policies should be much more severe than they are so far. For this reason, we ask the state's attorneys to complain more about the judgments made regarding the decision to punish, of course, especially the fact that half of our complaints lodged are respected by senior courts. Work on juvenile crime cases is particularly being handled in our annual report as well this year. The characteristic is that the number of crimes of juvenile crime remains essentially in decline. Statistical indicators have been given in relation to certain types of juvenile crime, in particular in relation to violence and from which data indicate that the share of violence in the observed years is almost uniform. That it's only a minor increase in these crimes but not some alarming increase in reports of violence committed by minors. Mostly by structure, these are not the most difficult forms of these crimes. Of course, a significant number of negative decisions are made in relation to minors, as discards are made in a much larger number than adults. By applying the opportunity and these other institutes that are characteristic of working on minor cases. USKOK, a special chapter showing numerical indicators of the work of USKOK for which it was significant in the past year that it had 385 applications in the paper and 319 applications in 2004 respectively. A smaller number than a year ago. The result first and foremost of the fact that, prior to the last amendment to the USKOK Act, which was made in this year, the number of criminal cases in relation to the abuse of drug intoxication by the Supreme Court decisions has been transferred in a certain way to the jurisdiction of regular courts. That's why it wasn't in that part of the BOOK that was in charge. However, I do not think that the USKOK institution has sufficiently revived and that, in this direction, after legislative frameworks have been created in terms of amending the USKOK Act, which you have brought this year and the teaming of USKOK that will follow or follow already in the last few months after certain human changes, with the help of the "tweening" partner from the "Cards" programme, will certainly achieve significantly better results than before. That, in the next part of the annual report, there is an analysis of the work and progress of crime in certain areas. In that direction, I think it should only be pointed out that the crimes against life and the bodies are falling as the last four years at all. Criminal acts against freedom of man and citizen have an increase of 3.3%, but in themselves they are not alarming because it is criminal, mainly criminal acts of threats that are not in themselves such as to require intervention and the State's Attorney's office or courts. It is primarily a matter of private calculation and reference to threats that essentially do not have the characteristics of this crime or are not as natural as expected. Crimes against the value of protected international rights are particularly interesting because they include crimes of war crimes in that group. For these crimes, a total of 104 applications were carried out. 51 from earlier years and 53 from the reporting year. 36 criminal charges have been rejected, and an investigative request has been filed against 32 persons. However, according to a completed investigation, the investigation was suspended from 484 persons. Why this big number and why now? I have already announced to you last year that, in relation to the crimes of war crimes since 1990, we have done a certain review of these criminal cases in order to reassess whether any of these cases that have been prosecuted or defiled are really about criminal acts of war crimes or possibly some minor forms of crime against the Republic of Croatia, which are already covered by the Laws of Forgiveness or General Forgiveness. In this regard, we have made certain requalifications of these crimes against war crimes of armed rebellion, and then applied the applicable Law of Forgiveness to 484 persons. The courts have reached 33 convictions, with regard to 15 persons, a negative verdict, acquittal or acquittal. Much more than whether it is a general standard, and that is understandable because it is criminal acts of evidence that are extremely difficult, especially from a certain time distance when the lack of witnesses and, unfortunately, material evidence is particularly difficult, except for the existence of the work itself. For these crimes, it is characteristic that there is no longer a proposal for a trial in absentia, and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has taken the view that in such cases there should be no longer any trial in absentia, and this fits European and world standards. As far as crimes related to the use of drug abuses are concerned, it is less than 1% than before, however, in the indicators of these offences, we particularly stress the fact that 75% of all criminal acts in relation to these acts relate exclusively to the possession of intoxicating drugs, so in Article 183(1), in relation to which the criminal offences of the State's attorneys are really often used by the Institute of minor social dangers and reject criminal charges where there are sufficient grounds for this, and that is, if it is the first time they have been found with intoxicating drugs, life opportunities, studies, schooling, etc. the legal conclusion that it is an excess, not a permanent occurrence, category, etc. Crimes against the economy are also particularly processed. They show a slight increase of 0.6%, so they remained standardly at the same levels as in earlier years. Of the convictions made, 82% were condemned, 12% liberating and 5% refutable. The comparison of the data with the previous reporting period shows that the courts made more judgments for these crimes in the past year than it was in earlier years. Why is that? Because the items have finally been taken into work and in the meantime some views have been crystallized, thanks among other things to the authentic interpretation of the Croatian Parliament regarding part of these crimes. As for organised crime and corruption, according to the report on the work of USKOK in relation to these crimes, the office received only 5 applications against unknown persons and 319 applications against celebrities. 125 reports have been filed against corruption crimes, and 156 reports for organised crime crimes. The handling of these criminal cases resulted in the fact that a relatively small number of persons were convicted of criminal acts of corruption because such criminal charges of quality resulting in the charges and the convictions were relatively small. That's where I gave you the statistics, not to repeat it now, because I think time is running out very quickly, and the report is very exhausting. Crimes of child and minor protection. These are also specific topics that may require a full report only in relation to this authority. The fact that, in relation to the crimes of child protection and minors, the state's attorney's office is indeed in spite of the fact that last year we didn't exactly celebrate with one case relating to Brezovica, achieve a relatively good result. Structure of these crimes, number of perpetrators, etc. They show that it's basically done quite well, but I'm saying, it's all been overshadowed by the affair of Bezovica. So in that direction, I can't really say that I'm behind everything we've done in that part. The responsibility of legal persons for criminal offences is a new institute, after criminal liability has been introduced. We're only here at the beginning, but it works relatively well. First of all, we talk about those situations where the responsible persons of the legal person commit crimes exclusively and only for the benefit of the legal person and then we go against them. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to criminal law, statistics indicate that we have done well, and that the state and movement of crime in the Republic of Croatia is not alarming as it is given any time to conclude from media articles. The number of indicators of criminal offences and the treatment of them points to the conclusion that the situation is as standard as earlier years and that the number of criminal offences does not generally rise. Except for that piece in relation to the number of unknown perpetrators. I have very little time left to look back on another important part of our work and action, which is work on civil and administrative matters. During 2004, there were 220 thousand of these items, of which 122 thousand new items. The total value of cases of litigation in the past year was over $11 billion, respectively. The total value of the cases in which the Republic of Croatia was a prosecutor is 4 and a half billion kuna, where 8 and a half billion kuna was sued. This is, in itself, a really worrying data, especially if we are taking care of the success in these procedures, which is not primarily dependent on the deputy state attorneys, but on the situation in these cases, i.e. the legal affairs that preceded these proceedings. In the disputes in which we represent the Republic of Croatia, the ministry and state bodies, success in the process is satisfactory. 58% of disputes were won, and where we were sued, 17.3%. It's an indicator that tells you all about it. On the other hand, where the Republic of Croatia is an executive, we demand a billion and 400 million kuna, but at the same time we are asked only 299 million kuna. So that means that, the other side is more successful at charging their claims than we are. I want to be self-critical right now. The number of bankruptcys is dropping. This year there are even more, etc., etc. In the structure of court cases are the most numerous work disputes. Last year there were 28 thousand 839, a huge number and never more so far. However, I must tell you immediately for comfort, this year, this year 2005 is a drastic decline and these work disputes have almost twice as many as they were in earlier years. In the rest of the report, we also talked about what the State Attorney's Office in the Civil Administration departments are doing to protect state property and what they are doing at all in matters where the property needs to be protected. We talked about the legal issue, and then we talked about problems related to the work of the state's attorneys, the urgency of civil administration departments at work in litigation cases where it depends on the urgency of the work of individual state bodies and courts. We talked about the problem of the book, which is very important, especially about deadlines in 2007, catastro etc. etc. As with previous years, work on civil administrative matters has been significantly influenced by unsettled relations on the registration and availability of state assets. Achieved claims and difficulties in business in general. We believe that the focus of attention in protecting the property rights of the state should be to determine and register state property in land books and other registers, to collect taxes, because without these failures it suffers significant damages. We appreciate that it is a priority to book agricultural land and ask for the support of competent ministries, etc. In disputes in which the State's Attorney's Office represents the Republic of Croatia, the ministry and state bodies as a prosecutor in a successful procedure, and in other disputes success is much worse. The structure is a work dispute, and in bankruptcy proceedings due to the fact that the creditor generally has no assets or small assets, the value of the demand of the Republic of Croatia remains unpaid in the light of the order in which we settled or charged insignificant amount. Although the new Banking Act has partially resolved the question of the state's default claims in bankruptcy, it is necessary to propose to launch bankruptcy proceedings before, and in the event of the granting of a postponement of the tax, the State must ensure its claims with the necessary means of insurance, mortgages. In order to achieve the above tasks in the field of the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia and the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences, it is necessary, with a view to better quality of supervision within national lawyers, to achieve programmes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on judicial reform, in particular in the education and information of the judiciary, because without modern methods of monitoring and supervision of work on cases of work, without continuous training of state attorneys, standards that have been reached in the European Union countries cannot be met in the long term. Thank you. I couldn't have been longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50937	Thank you. The Committee on Justice, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50938	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief State Attorney, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the 31st session held on 4 October 2005, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the work of the state's attorneys in 2004 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 19 September 2005. The Committee discussed the report in question in accordance with Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement of the Deputy Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia, it pointed out that the report on the work was drawn up in accordance with the constitutional powers under which the State's attorney is acting against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences, taking legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and submitting legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the law. It has been pointed out in particular that the work of state lawyers is up-to-date, three-quarters of the applications received have been resolved within a short period of 6 months. The first area was processed by a report on criminal cases, the movement and the structure of crime. In 2004, 34% of the charges were resolved, 58% by direct indictment and 8% by rejecting criminal charges. The State Attorney's Office considers that the Institute of Insignificant Part and the principles of purpose in practice delivers results and should therefore apply them to adults other than younger minors and minors. During 2004, courts made 87.1% of the convictions, and only 7.6% of the acquittals, making the proceedings a good success. The second area is the work on civil and administrative matters, which totalled 220 thousand 179 in 2004. The trend of increasing the number of cases has continued, in particular cases from the jurisdiction of the courts. In disputes in which the State's Attorney's Office represents the Republic of Croatia, the ministries and state bodies as prosecutors, success in the process is satisfactory while the disputes in which it represents the Republic of Croatia as defendants are worse. The report also covers other jobs such as international legal aid, the work of USKOK, organisations, personnel and material conditions of the work of the State's Attorney's Office. In the debate, the Committee members expressed their one-time support for the report on the work of state lawyers in 2004. The members of the Committee praised the exhaustion and comprehensiveness of the report submitted. However, on the report on the work of state attorneys, the Committee members also delivered specific opinions and proposals. The Committee's assessment is that the report on the work of state attorneys in 2004 is complete, detailed and quality, and the work of state attorneys is effective and up-to-date according to the state of the file. The report also shows the state of crime in the Republic of Croatia, so we can conclude that despite the public's perception of the increase in crime and the increasing risk of crime, the total of our crime is much more favourable than the individual neighbouring countries. According to official statistics on the number of criminal offences reported on 100,000 inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia, 2177 applications are on average received while the number of applications in Austria is 7274, in Hungary 4144 and in Slovenia 3869. Furthermore, the report provided for the movement of crime against the number of known and unknown perpetrators, graphics show that the number of reports against known perpetrators is dropping, and the number of reports against unknown perpetrators is growing. Data on the movement of crime of known and unknown persons are extremely important for the debate on the repression and movement of crime. In the section of the report on the average time of resolution of applications, the Committee considers that it would be desirable to specify exactly when the State Attorney's Office considers that the application has been resolved. After an exhaustive debate, the Committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following conclusion: A report on the work of the national lawyers is accepted in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50939	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. There isn't. Committee on Gender Equality, president of the Committee, respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50940	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of state lawyers in 2004 as an interested working body at the 31st session held on 1 December 2005. The Committee held the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on that act. In his opening statement, the proposing representative met the Committee with the movement and structure of crime. In 2004, a total of 96,000 915 minors were reported to state attorneys in the Republic of Croatia, which is 2% higher than in 2003. In the total number of persons reported, a significant percentage of cca 49% refers to unknown perpetrators, causing great concern. In 2004, as in earlier years, the most adults were reported for property delicacies. Data on the total number of pending applications indicate that the state's attorney's office is up to date. When it comes to minors, there has been a slight decline in juvenile delinquency in the last three years, but in this population the most represented property crimes and the most severe thefts among them. It has also been suggested that there is a huge difference in the structure of crime between cities. When it comes to juvenile crime, the state's attorney's office applies the principle of opportunity, because these perpetrators are more concerned with resociation than repression. In the debate, the Committee voiced concern over the increase in drug addicts, which is mentioned in the Report on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2004, while this report shows a trend in the decline of drug abuse. In this regard, it has been pointed out that the MUP has recently broken, truth be told, several drug chains although the drug mafia is obviously more organized. During 2004, 2,000 785 people were reported for crimes against marriage, family and youth. Which is 48% more than in 2003. As far as the structure is concerned, the highest crime is the abandonment and abuse of a child, and the crime of domestic violence. Of the 908 reported persons, 862 were reported for crimes of domestic violence committed exclusively to adult family members, and 122 or 13% according to underage family members. In a significant number of cases, the victims of domestic violence are women and children, 75% while 25% refer to male victims. Data on the number of reports of domestic violence indicate that they are much larger in urban areas than rural ones. This is, in the Committee's view, worryingly, considering that around 40% of our country's inhabitants live in smaller places. This all says that sensitization and education are necessary because it is still obviously a shame in smaller communities to report a bully because there is no conclusion that there is no violence in smaller places. The State Attorney's Office in this Report has no data sorted by county, but it is possible to make a comparative display by county. When it comes to sanctions imposed on perpetrators of a crime of domestic violence, the Committee considers that courts are generally the lowest prescribed penalty measure, i.e. the most minor penalty which often does not correspond to the severity of the offence. It also warns the state's attorney's office in its report similar to last year's. It also concerns a fact that points to an increasing number of unknown perpetrators of criminal offences. In the debate, members and members of the Committee supported the 2004 report on the work of state lawyers, but stressed that the reform of criminal law under way as well as the co-operation of state authorities should also contribute to an effective fight against crime. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the conclusion that a report on the work of the state's lawyers was adopted in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50941	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, Honored Representative Ratko Gajica. He's gone, the club's losing track of this subject. HDZ representative club respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50942	Mr. President, State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the work of the state's attorneys in 2004 and we discuss it every year and it is very important that the report we received is very important. This report first speaks of the work of the State Attorney's Office in 2004, but it also provides certain facts, certain knowledge of the state, structure, movement of crime in the Republic of Croatia in the last year, and also speaks of other civil matters, property protection of the goods of the Republic of Croatia in cases in which the Republic of Croatia is represented by the State Attorney's Office. So this State's Attorney's Report is a very important document that we discuss every year. What can be said fundamentally about the 2004 Report? It's very similar to that report we actually had a year earlier. What characterizes the work of last year is a very, very high awareness of our state's attorney's office and, looking at this aspect of the work of the state's attorney's office in 2004, we can be more than satisfied. Because these deadlines for solving criminal charges, these deadlines in which within the state's attorney's office responds to criminal charges and acts are raised or acts are rejected are indeed very short and the state's attorney's office has dealt with this very successfully, as it appears from the report itself, with the internal redistribution of those delays that were found in 2000, and they have passed obviously one significant stage where they managed to resolve it. Something like that is now on the scene and in the very judiciary where the cases that are older, which have buried some courts that are far more burdened than the smaller ones. They are assigned to some other courts that have fewer cases, so they are recorded in the years of these and the discharge and the more up-to-date of the courts themselves. When we look at this analysis, the first thing we need to ask ourselves is whether our country is charged with crime or not, and that's what counts out there by the number of criminal charges on 100,000 residents. With us, when we look at these statistics, we can conclude that our country is not too burdened with crime because we see that it is more than 2,000 criminal charges on 100,000 inhabitants. And even when we add that 33% of these criminal charges are rejected, then I think that regardless of this perception of the public that is present now because every day we see Malta not in the paper that there has been a robbery somewhere, a robbery somewhere. Globally, by figures, looking at the great causes of concern in this segment shouldn't be. What is also significant, the structure of crime has not changed significantly, and yet the most significant part of crime is the crimes of property character. But what's worrying about is that there's an increase in these drug crimes. And we've already had that on this Assembly report and on the National Strategy in the fight against drugs. And I hope that in the next period we will get better and more significant results there anyway. What we've always seen, this State's Attorney's Report, through the most prism of criminal policy, I think this time should concentrate a lot on that civic part, which is the protection of the property rights of the Republic of Croatia. The civic part when we look at this part of the report has one data that is really worrying, which is that in the last 2 years the number of civil cases has increased. In 2003, there were 110 or 112 thousand new cases in which the Republic of Croatia was a defendant, and in 2004, it increased by another 10, 12% so we have over 120 thousand cases in which the Republic of Croatia was sued. When we compare the cases in which the Republic of Croatia is a prosecutor, in which it has claims against legal entities and the cases in which we are sued, in which they seek us, we see a great disproportionateity. In fact, where we're suing claims, there's a total of about 4 billion kunas somewhere. Where we're being sued, they're asking us for about eight and a half billion kunas. And no interest, no expense, and all that. So that debt is bigger. The certainty of the charge in those disputes where we're suing isn't so great, it's not so real that we're going to charge those 4 billion in fact. It's more certain that we're going to charge a small part of it. And the certainty where we owe it is that the believers of the Republic of Croatia will certainly charge for it. And that's why when we see it all, we've been very hard to fight the deficit of the state budget that was 6.3% in 2003. We see that we have made great progress and it is really nice to see yesterday's informative shows and pensioners who are pleased to see that the debt that is being calculated will be returned to them and I'm just as afraid that in the coming years if we don't start solving these problems, we might be able to face one big problem, which is to meet our obligations in those disputes where we're sued and where we're debtors, and that's why I think that methodologically this report has been done just as well as last year, it is very clear, very explicitly pointing to the problems that are present, but what about all of it offers a position, what about all of it offers solutions. So in any case, in the coming years, we have to be aware that we've buried the courts with the cases in which we're being sued, that there's a certain claim, and that's the best thing that the state's attorney has said, and I said in my report that these things need to be settled in settlements where we're actually going to eliminate both part of the interest and part of the cost, and it will certainly be and will contribute to the reputation of the state and everything. One of the important things that also applies to criminal policy is that the state's attorney himself has said here that there is a certain perception that the criminal policy is a treasure, and the opinion of the State's attorney is that the criminal policy is a treasure and this is seen by the state's attorneys to file complaints in criminal cases and that part of the condemning judgments relating to the level of punishment. As we know, we had here in our first reading and amendments to the Penal Code, so here we see that the Croatian Parliament will respond to the observed situation and to this observed phenomenon, so we will change the Penal Code which is primarily aimed at raising that lower limit of punishment, that it will rise, because actually when we analyse the penalties that are imposed, all penalties have a minimum and maximum and most of those penalties that are imposed in judgments, they are close to the minimum. Now, just to avoid it, we raise that minimum, and in some ways we reduce that range in which courts will determine these criminal acts, judge against criminal acts, and therefore on the part of the Croatian Parliament, I think it is one measure, that it is a good law which is in the procedure, but of course it is a good measure and that the State's attorney and internally implements that they also provoke a different court practice, that they are harsh measures, even though there are different perceptions when we have to see in public, on the one hand, we believe that there is a great mildness and ineffectiveness of our judiciary, and on the other hand we have a fact that we are overrun in prisons and we don't actually have any more almost place in prisons, so there are some differences in all this. It's very good here in this report we've also dealt with one problem, and that's the problem of bankruptcy. It is very clear and correct here that the Republic of Croatia, in this bankruptcy, is basically left with short sleeves because when all the creditors charge in the order that it goes, we actually have nothing left. The problem is, I would say not so much in the legislation but is the problem of a practical nature, the problem is really in the late opening of bankruptcy because the bankruptcys open up when actually the debts of companies are more than the amounts that companies are obliged to pay to someone, and when the bankruptcy is opened then you can't and have nowhere to settle those debts, so that in that story they remain short sleeves and workers and states and creditors, and very nice in the bankruptcy law there is also a criminal provision whether according to the administration, if not in time opened the bankruptcy then a member of the administration is responsible for not opening up bankruptcy, because the bankruptcy needs to be demystified and understood as one normal procedure, to take it as a procedure in which it is necessary to implement it within a short period and at a time when actually still the creditors can be calmed down. In conclusion, I think that with this report we can be satisfied, I think that with the work of the State's Attorney's Office in 2004 we can primarily be satisfied, because the State's Attorney's Office has achieved very significant results in the urgency of solving criminal charges that it is taking place. They are now brought to a level that I believe will improve from year to year and even more, and in any case, I think that since the state of crime concerns some great cause of concern, it is statistically, in fact, not with us. This second section of the civil cases here will indeed have to take far more significant measures in the coming years and we will have to make a lot more effort to solve the problems that are recorded here and that really relate to very high claims. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50943	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50944	Your Honor, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I have to correct my esteemed colleague who was free to claim that they were very successful, so he says that our pensioners are now satisfied. Not only are they not satisfied, but here this morning shocked, that you're right, darling, two people of my age met me that an older woman tells me that she almost had a heart attack when she got the checkout, most of which gets a 0 kuna bill, and people will seem happy if they don't get a reckoning where she'll have to pay back something else to this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50945	Another respected representative is Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50946	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. The first is this one about the pleasure of the pensioners, we've seen, unfortunately, other cases, so what I said before happened, were more expectations and hopes than, unfortunately, the other. ... That'll be settled for sure, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Right after the election. The second correction to the incorrect quote refers to the part that the esteemed colleague said was the main problem of the country's payment when bankruptcy was opened. The main problem is that we did the conversion and privatisation then there wouldn't be that problem, it was carried out the way it was supposed to be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50947	SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50948	Thank you, Mr. President, Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. The club, immediately to say the SDP club, supports the 2004 report on the work of state attorneys, but we consider it our duty and our responsibility to warn on what conditions the State's Attorney's Office is doing as part of an independent judiciary, at least as it's being smuggled into the law. What conditions did this last year happen, unfortunately and continue, in which our judicial bodies must carry out their work under the Constitution and the law? What time and what time? A few months ago, the Administrative Court made a decision that tried our prime minister because the journalist denied seeking the necessary information and instead of acting urgently and promptly by the executive authority, the prime minister issued orders to the police and the state attorney's office itself, the state's attorney's office which is by law and which is independent and which should be independent in order to fulfil his very delicate and often dangerous duty. What's more, it wasn't once, it wasn't twice. There's a feeling that it's simply the executive authority that somehow became a habit. It takes a year and a half to issue warrants to both the police and the state's attorney's office in the most concrete things. And the question arises is whether in such a political environment, is it possible for an independent judiciary in such a situation? Such behaviour is not only devastating for state institutions of persecution and repression but seriously disrupts a climate in which our rule of law must develop. Let us just remind ourselves of the time when during the coalition government, a state official took a self-critical look at a court-law and that of a final court ruling, the opposition at that time was aroused by a harsh insurgence against the judicial authority, a harsh opposition to the judiciary. It has been several years of hard recovery for the judiciary to first and foremost begin to gain the necessary self-awareness it needs so much in its work because the eyes are not only professional and all the public precisely focused on their work and to resist any political pressure. Here's when, according to the new old one, by the shape of the government, they started pummeling these warrants again. And let's imagine a little bit about setting up a state's attorney's office. Again, it is also under the Constitution and by law with us an independent judicial body, it is not part of the executive authority. True, in some countries, the State Attorney's Office is thus organised that in one segment, it is directly part of the executive government, where even there in such systems a resolute minister and even the prime minister under certain conditions have certain powers over the work of the state's attorney, sometimes in a very specific and not just a group of cases, but even in a specific case. However, you can see that in such a formal arrangement and in such arrangements they are rarely but never used their own authority. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50949	Dear MPs, this is the report. Listen, this is a report on the work of the state's attorney's office in 2004. You're welcome to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50950	I'm sorry, I'm sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50951	Don't stick to the subject and don't pollemize with me when it's obvious you're not sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50952	Okay. I've already said what I was going to say. I know this subject is awkward for the government, but it's exactly the kind of situation that citizens ask, you know, how can the State's Attorney's office, Mr. President, and dear colleagues and colleagues, if warrants are issued. Then the citizen thinks logically. So if orders are issued to launch something, do they secretly issue orders to keep something going? Please, we've had a lot of reports about this in our press. But how come I don't bother you too much here I'll be very specific about it then. Think of this as an overture. Now, look, I'm going to stick to the letters and words of our chief state attorney very measured, very correct, very professional man who here is denying what Police Minister Kirin is saying right now is reducing the number of crimes, crime is in decline. But that's not the case. It has increased the number of most difficult works of death, property delicacies with elements of violence, i.e. That's what's worrying, that's what's completely visible not only from this written report but also from today's oral presentation of Mr. State's Attorney. He has increased the number of most serious crimes, he's looting. It was denied that it wasn't, that there was only such an impression. So I remind you that in July of this year, even seven muggings happened only at eight o'clock. As a rule, the perpetrators remain unknown. And that's what we have to do here as a legislative authority and this is a warning and an opportunity to hear the executive power that has to do to help the judicial authority, to help the state's attorney's office that's in charge of persecution to make it even more effective. As a rule, I say, in the most severe of these crimes, the perpetrators remain unknown. And what's more important than the strictest and the best law is precisely the willingness and success in quick detection, in the speedy capture and trial of the perpetrator. Except that every subsequent robbery is becoming more brutal almost as well as the method of execution is very similar already somehow stalking. But such robbers count exactly with one very certain possibility. Which one? That they won't be discovered. Because if it were the other way around, surely the number of such crimes would be smaller. That this is said by an exact indicator and reports something that is alarming, which is that the number of persons reported against unknown perpetrators has increased drastically. There are 47 thousand 499. This speaks of the efficiency of police who know very skillfully their incompetence, especially in the area in which it is currently located and in the latest politicisation to transfer responsibility to the judiciary and most often to the State Attorney's Office alone. This opens up again a story of police relations and state's attorney's office. We heard today that the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which was passed during the coalition government, received really good results, that it was an excellent bridge and bypass in the further reform of our criminal legislation for which this government does not seem to have a willingness and is not prepared to make a certain effort in this regard. Not only in financial terms and such one real support but also in its political definition. Is she capable, courageous and determined, of being willing to do the coalition power to put part of her executive repressive apparatus under the authority of the judicial authority i.e. State's attorney's office. Of course, this is not just one mere legislative act, that certain assumptions need to be reached, that this means additional readiness, education and integration not only on the normative which must be the result of the real connection of the police and the state's attorney. Police who often like to create the effects of success, even though it is then the result of teamwork and the success of BUSKOK. Well, we often hear the police and the jump. It's something that confuses our citizens. We cannot be successful in the process of detecting the perpetrators of criminal offences, in providing clues and evidence of committing crimes unless we have one line of command. We still have two tracks here. We've got the police and we've got the state's attorney's office. As we were aware, the last authorities in the report also faced how many times the State's Attorney's office requested one operation, one information, one activity from the police. How spotless did she do that? These are very interesting indicators and I think that's the point of success. How much of this authority has announced that the next period will be followed by just a fierce fight against corruption and organised crime in this regard, it really means serious. We saw it in the adopted State budget for 2006 as an item of the analytical budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50953	What does that have to do with the State's Attorney's Office's work report...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50954	It's for the work of the Jumper. Yes, I'll tell you now. So let me speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50955	In 2004?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50956	Oh, yes, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50957	In 2000, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50958	There's a Mr. President and let me tell you why.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50959	Well, this isn't a debate about work, police relations, state's attorney's office, the state budget. This is a debate on the annual report on the work of state attorneys in 2004 You are booked time if you stick to the topic. [[Intruder: So don't take away the time I've been booked.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50960	I stick to the subject, but I certainly don't speak as you would like.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50961	Not as much as I'd like. Hang on. [[That's exactly how I don't talk and...]] I'm the last time I warn you to stick to the subject. [[And it's my duty not to speak like that.]] Because if you don't stick to the subject, then you will. [[I'm sticking to the subject.]] Then you will, then I will take away your word [[So please, Mr. President, I'm talking about BREAK.]] If you don't stick to the subject [[So you can take away the word for me.]] I won't shut you up, but I'll take your word for it if you don't stick to the subject. [[But you won't shut us up. I'm talking about Jump. Well, I'm talking.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50962	I'm sticking to the subject and you're deliberately wasting my time. I'm talking about SCOCK here, and you're stopping me from doing it. I'm talking about Uskok, the findings and the report on the work of Uskok. I'm speaking here and I want to comment and support exactly what the attorney general said. Yes to the State Well, for 2004, yes, this is, these are the words, so it wasn't the state's attorney who spoke for 2005 and 2006 but for 2004 [[Intruder: 2004.]] Well, I'm sticking to the subject. [[Intruder: So I warn you to stick to 2004]] Well, I'm sticking to the subject. So if I hadn't resuscitated yet, he still hasn't revived. Why? Because adequate funds have not yet been granted for one of its most important departments, which is the Department of Analytical Monitoring of Crime. Thus, small funds that are approved or not approved from year to year for the Department of Analytical Monitoring of Crime have led precisely to the inability of more successful work and the results of the USKOK itself. What seems also important to me to point out, which is particularly apostrophe in word and both in the report and in the words of Mr. Chief State Attorney. It's a problem of economic crime. It is pointed out that in this year, given that the work was finally taken and those cases were constantly rushed, which were constantly rushed and updated finally produced fruit as much as possible, but precisely on the initiative of the chief state attorney who asked the Parliament here for authentic interpretation in certain things. Why? Because economic offences or incrimination, which is precisely visible and evident, and also from the results of the conduct of these criminal acts, cannot be satisfied in view of the existing incriminations. It's completely, it's quite obvious and such changes are therefore something that is necessary. We also discussed this in the amendments to the Penal Code, and this is something that citizens simply cannot keep quiet and what the topic that has constantly occupied here has been our Croatian public for 15 years. Our economic incrimination is also visible from this report and from the last constant warning to the legislative authority on more effective or appropriate incriminations of economic crime. That's why the number of applications and discards in this segment was just inaccessible. For what? That is why, because of the limiting legal possibilities and due to the justified common principle of the principle of legality, there is no more creative interpretation or interpretation of existing legal norms. But it's something our citizens simply cannot accept. I cannot accept that creditors, that creditors simply cannot be charged and that this does not fall under criminal responsibility. It's certainly a frustrating situation of those people who are just in charge of persecute the kind of crime that has just been unprocessing and dissuasion created one big gap between, and mistrust in the institutions of the state among our citizens. What I would especially like to apostrophe...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50963	Thank you very much. This, by the way, that time of those half-minutes that you and I spent in the middle of the topic. It's been over a long time. So go ahead and finish with one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50964	What's also very worrying is, it comes from the report itself, and what was particularly apostrophe of the state's attorney general, and that's the number, a large number of litigation cases where, excuse me, Mr. President, the state is again the biggest debtor and there are one huge, 8 and a half billion kunas. I mean, I know it's a little awkward, so maybe you'll interrupt me. [[And what will I forgive you for?]] That Croatia owes 8 billion kuna. [[I won't interrupt you because of any inconvenience but because you're running out of time.]] It will be very interesting to see this police effort About the protection of workers and that criminal application for non-payment of salaries. [[Intruder: It will be very interesting, it will be in addition to the debated colleagues thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50965	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Well, you'll discuss it further. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50966	Dear Mr. President on the claim that the government is giving both public and secret orders to the State's Attorney's office, I'm telling you that in the HSP, it looks like the one that mocked the owl's shadow. This is a problem in the Croatian work, but otherwise, the government can officially issue a warrant to the State's Attorney's office for these litigation procedures because the State's Attorney's Office is very representative of the government, and then there's a big problem because then the government buys time and stalls with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50967	The second correction by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50968	Mr. President, my colleague said literally the following, so incorrectly, of course. They're pummeling orders, pummeling warrants by the executive authority to the state's attorney's office. This is absolutely incorrect and needs to be corrected, and apparently it alluded to that the executive government therefore has direct interference with the attorney's office, the State's Attorney's office as an independent, independent judicial body. This is absolutely not true and it needs to be corrected, and it is for the public to say so if a colleague or someone from her club has a foothold, so there are documents about it, then, in the sense of such irresponsible statement, they should present it to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50969	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50970	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Anticevic said, of course, incorrectly: "In his oral address today, the state lawyer told us and denied Minister Kirin that the number of crimes is growing." So she said the state's attorney said the number of crimes is growing. On the contrary, in his oral address, the state lawyer said that the number of crimes is essentially not growing and that the situation is not alarming that it is sometimes publicised. And you also wanted to show by your debate that it was alarming.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50971	Next correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50972	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's not true what her colleague said was that the coalition government had achieved excellent results, because in the spectacular measurement of the mob's forces, it was a great victory. Furthermore, the bad results are that you have not imposed penalties for nepotism, because otherwise the president of your party would not give a job to a woman, she and eventually promote together the greatest victims of the war of the disabled Republika Srpska, and all at the expense of this government and state.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50973	Next Amendment, Honored Representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50974	Mr. President. It is not true that it is a frustrating situation that Mrs Anticevic spoke of. But, ma'am, you're frustrated in impotence, which results in your exhibitionism in this hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50975	And the last, respected representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50976	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative Anticevic said the state owes one-and-a-half billion kuna. It is not true that the state owes 8 and a half billion kuna, the state is in litigation, in the position of the defendants, and only when it is legally convicted can there be a state debt, and I would agree that there are indeed enormous numbers of litigation cases in front of our Croatian courts. And why is it that some of the former government who signed the contracts gave the workers the rights, and then didn't pay them what she promised them, so now they're suing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50977	The IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain, who will stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50978	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Bajic, distinguished gentlemen of the council. Surely, with a report from the Croatian National Bank, Croatian Radio Television, the Croatian National Bank due to this monetary policy of the HRT, because of media freedom, influence or influence of the authorities on the media. One of the most significant reports received by parliamentary deputies is a report on the work of the state's attorney's office. Not clearly underestimating any other report coming into this House. But what is amazing, in 2004, 96 thousand 915 new applications were received against unknown and known perpetrators of criminal offences. And now it turns out that in this country that counts 4 million and 300,000 inhabitants of every 44th citizen of the Republic of Croatia has been convicted of something. If we turn down children now, old people, so every 30 citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this country are being charged. We hear here all the clubs have said that we are not burdened with criminal acts, but such a masochism of this people simply amazes us. And that trend we see and it just grows, it doesn't shrink. And what is also amazing, I quote: "At the end of 2004, 496 applications or 0.76% were left unsolved."that simply a man doesn't believe in that urgency. On the side that we have 60 municipal state attorneys plus 20 county attorneys plus then a state attorney's office where 72 lawyers are working plus 487 of their deputies. And then here we see that in this country, I don't know exactly what the data is, we have about a thousand state attorneys to which it's being waste, where there's 100 criminal cases a year on each of them. I'm talking about criminal charges. Civil-Government departments had 220 thousand 179 cases in 2004 and annual growth was 9.9%. So every state's attorney with those 100 criminal cases, it's another 200 citizens. But speaking of this matter, I want to touch the return of property. The fact is that this matter is not already bypassing the state's attorney, at least when Istria is in the process. Clearly, this is a politically extremely interesting topic and if anyone can or should talk about it, then IDS should, because we opened the issue two months ago when we were called Balkans here, but no one defended us from either the left or the right. We all know about our programming declarations when we introduced these principles of return of property, etc. However, there are several clear principles that should be respected. It is the decision of the Constitutional Court where foreigners are in the same position as Croatian citizens. But what is far more important, these are international contracts that have power over the law and we need to make clear that no one has been given a mandate in this country to take the country into bankruptcy. And then, in the end, there can't be any distinction. If that is the case, which I believe will not, between the Austrians on the one hand, Italians, Jews, Slovenians, etc., Americans, on the other. Why am I saying that? Because there are several such disputes in Istria, large disputes, where the state clearly represents the Croatian State Attorney's Office, or the County's, however, municipally, are mainly interesting cases of the former head of the Crljenica. But I don't want to talk about it anymore. Now to return to the State's Attorney's Office's activities, again, in 2004. It's best not to waste words. They had the biggest scandal, Bago-Granic, and in 2005, the former director resigned, or Mr. Bajic did not re-election him as USKOK chief. What am I saying? That everywhere where we performed with the position that these institutions would change the world, when we realized what we did, we realized that in choosing people we were wrong. I'm not going to mention them here right now. In fact, wherever you choose a man under the influence of the public, we would eventually make a mistake. And it's fortunate that by not naming myself, I don't know, the President of the Supreme Court, the attorney general, not the lawyers, but the attorneys for the children, etc. He's restoring the dignity of this House. And it absolutely doesn't matter if it happened for the third January administration or this one. What is certainly a debacle of the state's attorney's office and judiciary, the government, the judiciary, it's a work of reviewing conversion and privatisation. First of all, to be clear, the revision today is not even possible anymore because it would cause a complete breakdown of the Croatian economy and it is clear to all, although in 95% of the cases their assets should be nationalised, to those who have acquired it as they have acquired it. And secondly, after the biggest robbery, gentlemen will be given only two fines and two parole judgments, clearly no one could believe who was in front of 10, 5 or who today is in good health. On this test, meaning audits, Croatia has morally bankrupted. Fortunately, it's not material.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50979	Mr. Cain, stick to the subject. A report on the work of state attorneys in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50980	The truth is, let's go back now, that the state's attorney's office has shown itself, and as Mr. Bajic and Carla del Ponte admit to you, and what you were just talking about, let's say war crimes cases. True, Croatia co-operates with The Hague, and if it were in the reach of General Ante Gotovina, it would be in The Hague within 24 hours. But what's he saying? The soldiers will be immediately bought a ticket to The Hague, and nothing will happen to the real inspirers of that madness, politicians and some journalists. And it's a Croatian shame, the soldiers leave, the employers don't leave. Finally, many of them strayed into war as young citizens driven by a great heart. What I particularly welcome is page 19, where it is said that bilateral agreements have been concluded with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro, which allow us to make it easier to check and collect data, and all with the aim of determining in each case the perpetrators and bringing them to court. That's definitely what you need to say goodbye to. But you see on the other hand, it's said that it's also a World War II crime. And no matter what I say, without the NOB there would be no Croatia, I am not running from the truth if there were crimes here, and no one can hide it. Probably not like on the side of those defeated ideologies, but certainly that one Badger and the like. crime and I understand dilemmas one crime to persecute, others not, but after World War II none of the winning armies have been prosecuted and I am convinced that neither in Croatia will, with all the moral dilemmas that we bear when we face this issue. I don't want too much on the acts of drug abuse, except that there's so much more to believe that the police are involved in that as well as in the theft of SUVs and something like that. Everyone knows about the perpetrators, nothing happens. Of course, in a minor we understand everything, there should be an opportunity, there must be a delay in the trial, we have courts for youth etc. But that in 2004 there are fewer reported than in 2003, it's gentlemen to not believe. It's just impossible. There's someone sabotaging, I don't know who, whether the police, the state's attorney, the judiciary as a whole, actually what's most tragically sabotaged by the Croatian public, the citizens and the people who found themselves in that hell of narcotics. The problem is we'll all agree, year by year getting bigger, and we imagine because of the drugs here we have less and less reported. For example, in 2003 there were 6028 and 5965 in 2004. There should also be a clear statement about criminal acts against property or criminal acts against general security, which Mr. Bajic is also talking about. They're for example. These car accidents and I appeal once again to end those silly, harmful, illogical provisions of 0.0 prominence that neither prevented any death or sobered people to express myself. There's something that needs to be said clearly about economic crime. But it's interesting, watch out here on page 26, to quote in 2004: for crimes in Chapter XXI. The KZ received 2878 new applications, the number of registered persons compared to 2003 when 2871 showed a slight increase of 0.6% which stopped the trend in the reduction in the number of applications that was present three years ago. In 2001, the decline in the number of reported was 14%, 2002. 16%, 2003. 12%. So for the former government was the fall of those acts, i.e. to report when economic crime is due, but I, like everyone else here, care and the following, is to work on civil or administrative matters. Why? Because the total value, in the case of litigation as I literally quote Mr. Bajic, was slightly more than $11 billion, and then he said, quoting that information from the report, namely 14 billion 649 million and 170 kuna, but if that means 4 billion 453 billion kuna in which the state was prosecutor, the state is suing for 4.4 billion kuna, and today the state is suing not for 8 and a half, but for 11.1 billion kuna. The state has managed 58% of the cases according to this table, so that's where it got the slow, 12% of the dispute is lost, let's say we'll see how it goes now in the case of, say, Jamba, in 3% of the settlements, 27% of the claims were withdrawn, and that's, I'd agree the same with everyone, a key part of the report, because the state would very easily, according to these under quotes, the introduction of the procedure could lose two to three billion kuna that weren't calculated into the budget for this year or some subsequent year. I don't have time for bankruptcy, but I agree that this report of praise is worth it, that it's useful to have insight into the work of this important state body. However, I am still fascinated by this figure that every 44 Croatian citizens have been reported for some criminal conduct. If we refuse again I will tell the children, old people, we come up with a number from every 30 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been reported for one of these delicacies. That's too much, it's too much, but the report should absolutely be accepted, so aside and the shame that follows the State's Attorney's office and the Church on the Bezovica case. Clearly, when we talk about the damage done by Bezovica, the greatest damage it has done to these children themselves who have been harassed during their stay in that institution in one extremely inappropriate way. If Mr. President would let me, and I'd like to get a little tied up on the retirement debt, I don't know if it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50981	But it has nothing to do with this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50982	Well, I know it doesn't, but everyone mentioned it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50983	But it has nothing to do with this report, so don't even mention it. It's really...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50984	But, okay. Okay. Regardless of all the respectable Mr. President, the distinguished gentlemen of the council, the report said it was commendable. It is one of the supposed, most important ones who come before parliamentary representatives and one positive opinion about it we should encourage Mr Bajic to continue to insist on his institution's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50985	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50986	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague Caine. At first, he said it wasn't true that now it was possible to revise because then it would be nationalisation. It's an incorrect thing that's been stolen and it's not nationalization. Nationalization is when it's taken from power... but the thief isn't but returning to the original thing. And secondly, it's not the Church's fault for the Bezovica case, it's Caritas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50987	Second correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50988	Mr. President. My colleague Cain, it is not true that only Badger is a crime of those whom you insist on defending in the Croatian Parliament, Bleiburg, Macelj, Jazovka, Daxa, Aržano, cross roads that lasted 50 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50989	Third Amendment, honourable representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50990	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct only one quote that appeared here as a silly decision of 0.0 or translate it into a Croatian stupid, silly, lame, and that it didn't save any lives. Mr. Cain, just take the statistics and see how much life has been saved in the last year and how few there are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50991	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50992	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Chief Attorney of State. First of all, Mr. President, I would like to ask you today to give information on yesterday's search for the Croatian Party's club of rights regarding this case of a self-called Australian immigrant agent who does not have that status because we are afraid that, according to indications, it is a major fraud, and our people in what social situation are buying false promises. So that anyone and those other affairs might not be, so I'd like to ask that we actually get that information during the day. And now he'd move on to the subject. Otherwise, from what I hear, the attorney general has taken some measures, which we welcome anyway. And what about this subject? One thing to say first is that we are really becoming more and more of a paradox country. Indeed more and more paradoxic countries, because when we talk about all these reports, so it's also about the state's attorneyship of public perceptions is quite different. I don't mean the work of the state's attorney's office, but the perception of the public, so the Croatian citizens, the Croatian voters who elected us, this High House, is that in the area, the work, the functioning of the rule of law, is not a big deal. It's mainly about people who have been waiting a long time to settle their disputes and the very situation where they sued the state. And these situations are right, unequivocally clear and no wonder that such a small percentage of the success of the state's attorney's office can't even be greater because the factual situation unfortunately in many of these cases is such that the state will have to pay for it. The government is obviously buying time because of the problem in the budget, as the former government has been doing. They're just buying time, but we have to make sure that that kind of thing, so when we discuss the report, we take measures to try to go according to the principle of a settlement or an extrajudicial or court settlement. And exactly, and legally even regulate the possibility when the state can and within which deadlines, here, such as this case is related to the compensation of pensioners, i.e. the repayment of debt. Because if we go further, it's still not going to be 11.1 billion kunas where the state is on the side of the defendant, but it's going to be far more because we know that this is where it's going, the disputes take a long time, interest and everything else. And regular, and tight and cost of the procedure and everything else. So, that's a problem that's quite large, and the number of these cases that are litigious in that is speaking for itself enough, and unfortunately nothing is systematically solved. And now you see how far we're from the paradox state. We have now seen that in this part of the litigation where they seek and those who are really right, there are also those who have stolen the state in conversion and privatisation. They stole the state in conversion and privatisation and now they're, look out, now they're suing that country. Now that's what, that's what law and justice are not the same, that's what you see on this case. So many who were in the report, so 95.17% found that illegal audit and privatisation was carried out. Now there are many in this report who are also suing the state, now they're asking the state to pay them that amount. I mean, it's really one paradox of the paradox. And now let's move on, so let's talk real about the whole situation. I must admit, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, the right to the State's Attorney's Office is getting better every year, that it's getting more organized, but unfortunately the perception of the public is like that. It's not the media's fault, don't accuse the media now that the media is guilty of public perception that they're unhappy with the work of the state's attorney. Because when the media sees a case, when people see a case in the media that something's been done right away, they're looking at the state's attorney's office. Because normally for them, it's the state's attorney's office that responds. But it's not exactly because the state's attorney's office has to give it to the police, and the police either do it or do it wrong. And then in the end, when we see everything, we see that the biggest fault in us is here because we've passed a law that's bad. We have passed a law that is inadmissible and because we are purposely or not purposely bad, if it comes to punishment, we will have qualified a criminal act, and you will have in vain the efforts of the players. So I think that this is exactly how we should have even one plenary session where we would have at the same time, so all of these situations, the police work, the work of the state's attorney, our work here as a legislator, the work of the courts. And then we would have to bring a package of measures where all these illogicalities would be removed. So, these are shifts, it's an undeniable fact, but there is still, as Mrs. Ingrid said, there is this problem that politics continues to interfere in the state's attorney's office which directly, which is indirect and we also need to take this problem straight. Normally, politics has the right to interfere, or executive power when it comes to these litigation procedures, because we know that then the state's attorney is representing the government and then has to do as the government says. It's a matter of clarity, it's... with a warrant, as you're right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there are all sorts of other things that we really need to do for a cleanup. So that's the kind of thing that's been going on since we've been in this space. So for both the former Croatia and these Croatians, there has always been that politics was directly mixed in one way or another in the proper processes, who should, who should not, how, whether the object would stand in the drawer or. This is what is bad, which is not good for the functioning of the rule of law and for gaining the confidence of Croatian citizens in the functioning of the rule of law. Regarding this part, we also need to make one criticism that it is finally time to solve the issue of the Osijek case. Don't let that move all the time. So I suggest, from year to year, that's the issue. It's not contained here as such, it's Mr. Glavas' case and everything. Give it a fix and let's not speculate all the time because that part of the duration, the duration, the duration is constantly felt that this policy is involved. We solve everything else, we give the facts, not constantly keep the media tension, speculation this-that, so we hear statements from Serbia, from everyone, God forbid the situation. So these witnesses, they, then influence. I mean, that's one...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50993	Now there's a solemn session of the City Council of Osijek going on, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50994	Thank you very much, I know that in private. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50995	And now I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50996	And you answer me for what I asked you yesterday. Now, according to this, it's obvious that a lot of things will have to be done and done, and the first thing that's important is that the attorney general started, and that's that he has the right to choose his own team. I'm my own team, so others don't impose on him. And to be the team that's gonna stick around it means three important things. Professionalism, professionalism, and this part of patriotism and incompetence, incompetence. It's the only way to start working. Now an even bigger problem is that part of how to make that, this is a truly devastating and warning fact that an increasing number of crimes remains undiscovered. Unknown unsub. That means another proof of how much things should be done in the police department that the police act in good time, that they act professionally. And we still have to be aware of the repression at the end of all this, we're not gonna achieve anything. But the repression, as the attorney general said, will have the character of prevention, is the solution. So what appears should first act repressively to prevent such crimes from being repeated and then have this preventive effect. Then in that part, you have to go to the part you said about the range of penalties, that it doesn't all go into the system of warnings, reproof or fines or anything else. And only then will the trust of Croatian citizens return to all this. Therefore, we will support, I say the shift exists, but we must show what perception is within the Croatian people and we must be deeply concerned. So it's not just perception of the work of the attorney general, the state's attorney. It's perception of the whole state of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50997	Thank you. At 11 and 10, the time for application for an individual debate for 10 minutes has expired on this agenda point. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50998	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of a respected counterpart, Kovacevic, who claimed that the State's Attorney's Office represents the government. It is not true that the State's Attorney's Office is representing the Government, but that the State's Attorney's Office is working independently and representing all citizens as well as the Government in the case, even if it is necessary and when the Government thinks it is necessary to request an investigation in some cases clearly to seek the help of the State's Attorney's Office, and certainly not that the State's Attorney's Office does not represent the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u50999	The State's Attorney's Office, a colleague of Bekavac, when the power of attorney is then representing the government, that it is not a correction of an incorrect assumption, and there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure. ... No Mr. Pero Kovacevic, there is, you will get a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. If he was correcting his colleague, one legal point of view, you made it clear. ... Do not report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so that we may correct the opinion and position, here are your injuries to the Rules of Procedure for the time being. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51000	Your Honor, Mr. President. According to Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure, an esteemed colleague was injured. First he should have said which corrects my incorrect claim, and first I didn't say it, but I said what you said was the State's Attorney's Office representing the government in litigation proceedings. Here's what would be legal. ... No, he didn't say that, he said that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He doesn't understand, and he interferes, that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51001	Col. Kovacevic, you made one claim about the government's representation in proceedings, litigation proceedings. ... Yes, and my colleague, Bekavac, has stated that this is not your claim. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And yes, and you remember that, I'm telling you again, don't report for and ask for bread above the cake, look through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, correcting the views and opinions of the other representative, don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I won't give you a warning, but don't get into it again. HNS club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51002	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. What does a thousand 370 people in the State's Attorney's Office do? By punishing criminals on official duty and protecting state property, that's their job. The report that describes what they did in 2004 as well as last year's wonderfully drawn up, the tables agree horizontally and vertically, the graphics agree with the tables, the charts with graphics, there is no error in the data, the report was made as the professional works are done, precisely with the reference to the source, everything 100%. Nowhere can a benevolent or malicious find a mistake. The report contains mild optimism, not excessive optimism, but mild optimism, which is of course politically opportunistic and ensures the position of the State's Attorney's Office regardless of what happens to power as well as practice shows. It is interesting in criminal prosecutions the number of known perpetrators, the number of unknown perpetrators is growing, which would mean that criminals become anonymous and honorable citizens do not know who the criminals are around them, criminals know who the honourable citizens are, perhaps criminals become honorary citizens, mostly what counterpart Cain said is that every 44 citizens of the Republic of Croatia are on average accused of some crime which is not so terrible, but it is terrible that 88 citizens are anonymous criminals. If about 47 thousand are 500 unknown perpetrators, then divide it by 4 million, or 4 million 300 with it, and you will get that every 88 citizens of the Republic of Croatia is an unknown criminal. So on 152 people in one place, 2 are unknown criminals. Of course, it is a fundamental issue of such a large number of unknown criminals where police are now, where there are new measures that must be repressive to make unknown criminals known, where there are long, short pipes, how can the state at least protect itself, protect citizens, at least to the extent that it knows who attacks constitutional order, property and the lives of citizens? In order to make this more effective, the entire judicial and repressive system needs to be seen as a single system, a unique system with an external imputation. The outside imput is a crime of course. If this system isn't connected and it doesn't work simultaneously and consistently, it's absolutely certain that criminals who are simultaneous and coordinated, who have an organization, will find a hole in that discrepancy no matter where that hole is, is it in the mildness of the rules, is it in the interest of the police, is it in the face of the police with the criminals that the minister himself claims to have these tracks? Whether it's in poor work or good work of the State's Attorney's Office, it doesn't matter, wherever the feller criminals are going to find it, criminals are always one step ahead of the authorities, in front of the repression. The internality of the State's Attorney's Office, not only is it good, but it's excellent, according to all the data here in the report, she also says at the level of Mr. State's attorney of European averages. If things were solved in all other state bodies so that they had 0 whole and some of them I don't know how many 4, 5, 6% of the outstanding cases of the current year this country would look like something that isn't in the world yet, right, would be the perfect organization, the real Utopia. Unfortunately, it's not like that. But it is convenient to look at the statistics of other countries that have been given here as a reference. They're terrible. In Austria, the percentage of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants is 3.4 times higher than in Croatia in Hungary is double, Slovenia is 50% higher. I don't know what to expect, probably prepare and sharpen the Law on Citizenship, because the columns of refugees from those countries where crime is four times bigger than with us or three times bigger than with us, the columns of refugees will probably go to Croatia, I guess, that should be expected. But that's not happening. Although the report says that citizens in this aspect are getting better and better, they don't see it as poor. These refugees do not come from Austria, as many as a gentleman from Australia comes, opens an office in Split and gets 6 thousand offers of people to go to Australia where the situation is probably worse than Austria, because Austria is the country of the world's most pleasant life in the world, right? So, they don't leave the columns here, they don't come here, they go there. The only thing that can be concluded is that the crime that is happening in Croatia is not the same as the crime reported in Croatia and even less as the crime against which the criminal proceedings were committed. So those numbers definitely don't match. They certainly do not match and should not then boast how many times we are better than European countries. That's unlikely. It is a high degree of rejection of applications that come to the state's attorney, claiming that cases are insignificant, so that they are cases that do not pose a great danger and that they are opportunised when it comes to minors and minors. But yesterday, an e-mail came from a group of citizens from Slavonia who said that five, six have filed several applications to the State's Attorney's Office, and the State's Attorney's Office's applications have been dropped, private lawsuits have been launched, and private lawsuits have yielded results. So, they're doing it in part. If such applications were accepted by more citizens, then, of course, statistics would be somewhat worse, it would not be as good as in this report. I'm afraid that doesn't happen. So it's important that the State's Attorney's office has good results and 5/6 of what comes to court is a judgmental verdict. Low is the level of punishment, primarily because the minimum penalties under our Penal Code are extremely low, meaninglessly low. This is in the proposal of the Penal Code which is now in the procedure, the first reading has passed, it is changing and well to change. Such intensity should be commended and it is one of the legal proposals that really goes in this direction to put this whole statistic on a more realistic basis, based on which it will really tell us what is going on in Croatia. It's amazing that UskoK received 385 applications. Of these 385 132 charges have been filed. Of the 132 charges of 57 convictions, of which 48 convicts. So, of 385 applications, 48, that's about 10, 12, 13% of the convictions. That percentage seems unrealistic to me that it would, it's amazing to me that 385 people would be brought up with a serious charge of criminal organisation and organization for the committing of criminal acts and, as it were, it's only 48 of those 385 people who are wrong. There's good information about the crimes of drug abuse. The day before or yesterday it was we had here a report on this particular segment on the anti-intoxication drug strategy in 2004 and this report says that the number of addicts in 2004 has grown significantly. This report suggests that the 2004 indictment and application for those crimes were lower. What does that mean? Either they lie or the charges don't go up and the police don't do their job. We can't believe we got a false report yesterday with the wrong data, that someone's blowing up those numbers. That's impossible. So, the number has, the junkie has, the drug market as calculated by counterpart Lesar yesterday is 4.5 billion kuna in Croatia and there is no indictment. Obviously, those 4.5 billion are used for another and not just for buying yachts to criminals, and that money doesn't all come out. Apparently, they enter the system here to keep the number of charges for these crimes at the level of those since 2003. To praise it, I think it's actually part of this report that should cheer the public the most, a significant increase in the number of reported acts of domestic violence. That doesn't mean that the violence was gone a year ago, and two years ago it wasn't. It was but people weren't brave enough, there weren't enough incentives by the state, there wasn't enough work to raise awareness that those people who were bullied, women above all who were harassed in the family really could and had someone to turn to. There, we should commend the government's efforts but above all commend the efforts of NGOs who have significantly helped to raise awareness and the will and desire of harassed family members, I say primarily women to turn to the public, to go out with that fact. That fact is not their shame but the shame of those who harass them. Organized crime and corruption in this report were treated on page 30. I don't know why, but there's no graphic comparison to the year before. It might be convenient for that graphic comparison to exist. There's a back in numbers, but those numbers here are numbers so minor that it's impossible to believe that nothing else is really happening in this country. Organized crime and corruption are spinning a huge amount of money. This amount of money according to these data, so the number of people reported, is certainly spinning in other circles and not just in the circles of organised criminals and those corrupting in the economy and in the state services. It is also a terrible fact that the state has been accused in these civil-legal disputes that citizens are suing it for 8 billion and about 400 and some million, 8.5 billion kuna, and that these are mostly work-law disputes that the state will mostly lose. I understand where it started, how it started. It started with the signing of collective contracts that weren't paid. The obligation was taken and not paid. We've been talking here for months so that the state would be much cheaper, more rational and politically wiser not to be found in court with such disputes that it certainly loses. I know this isn't about Mr. State's Attorney. It's a matter of state administration. Such disputes should simply be admitted to guilt, to pay people what is to pay and avoid large interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51003	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51004	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's what my colleague Vuljanic said about crime in neighbouring countries, about comparative data saying that then there are 7 thousand criminals in Austria so many, so many in Croatia. It's incorrect that they're criminals. It's the number of criminal charges filed and it's a matter of clear methodology because from that data you get to pull anything out. We have no record for Austria of these 7 thousand 700 criminal reports that they have completed, how many have been rejected, who has filed them, whether citizens, police, etc. and may point to another social climate because, apparently, Austria by general perception is a country pleasant to life. I don't believe that every 13th Austrian is a criminal, as I don't believe in Croatia, that every 25 citizens are a criminal, so this should be an analytical approach to these numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51005	A criminal doesn't turn out to be a criminal. It's a long way to go to a criminal from criminal charges to, and a hard and thorny way. It should be earned by becoming a criminal. It's an HSS rep club. Honorable representative of Ante Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51006	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I will, for the sake of precision on behalf of the HSS Club, tell at the very beginning that the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body is authorised and obliged to act against all perpetrators of criminal offences and criminal offences and to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the law. Of course this report before us is methodological and in terms of access to all relevant information on the trail of good reports presented by the State's Attorney General to the Croatian Parliament. It's very simple to paint things. All relevant data of both the criminal department and the civil and administrative departments shall be made very clear. The position of the special body of USKOK has been defined and, in the introduction itself, the introductory word has spoken a few words about it. Of course, the public is always interested in the full law of submitting such reports primarily in order to try to find or try to give assessments that simply one such report in itself and cannot give. Because they're always expected when it comes to the State's Attorney's report, they're bigger and disproportionate and the role of the State's Attorney's office itself. Because it is simply not the only arbitration officer in the finale who needs exactly what I have quoted as having to act against the perpetrators of criminal acts and other criminal acts because it simply has to act in the system. In a whole system, a whole series of institutions and the State's Attorney's office is just one of them. The number of those unknown perpetrators, which has increased compared to the previous year, speaks not only of new forms but also of new challenges put before the legislator on one side, which is the Croatian Parliament, before the State's Attorney's Office on the other, but also of the repressive apparatus that is necessary with its data and information to contribute to better work and more efficient work of the State's Attorney's Office. I, on behalf of the HSS Club, must at first say that we hold that Croatia, given the environment, given our relations in Croatian society, given the economic opportunities, given the social situation in Croatia, given our attached means of communication and relations with all institutions that the relationship is satisfactory. The security aspects that, of course, stem from those punishable acts that can be characterized by such a feature are safe. Croatia is considered one of the most secure countries by all statistics, by all records and by the estimates of those agencies and institutions dealing with such a type of assessment. Such relative security is a good basis for Croatia to achieve the second role that the State's Attorney's Office plays, which is to treat the perpetrators. Of all the levels that in this report, in terms of the movement of criminality of the structure, the criminality of unsolved applications, the structure of the perpetrators, what has caused us in the HSS in particular one attention to which we need to be further referred, which is minors and work on these subjects. Of course, I won't put it in the context of the debate about children's, the child's attorney's office, but of course it has one reflection and on that state and that, of course, those who turned 14 and who were not criminally responsible because they did not turn 18 represent a particularly interesting structure of our citizens. And if we look at all the reports of the developed countries of the European Union exactly that population has recently been the most exposed and in France, this is the data published recently they have done more than 40% of all works. Croatia thank God is not at such a level even though these trends, of course, in this modern and global world, will include Croatia, but it is evident that prevention is something that is imposed as a natural means of combating a single system of institutions as well as the State's Attorney's Office in terms of reducing these risks about illegal actions. Since preschool education itself, from the creation of saying so, a citizen who becomes in the full sense of words from his 18 years of age is a very important institution that deals and participates in the creation of that citizen. Since preschool education, from school education, media perceptions transmitted through television are created by a single overall environment that definitely affects possible predetermined risk groups that are clearly in the sociological position known. And just when you're looking at the modern world and the way it's represented, and the way that public media especially like television almost overaggressively brings children over 10 to 15 years of age to pre-aggressive elements. Too little educational, too little preventive, too little other knowledge, and I fear that even the overall education system has not fully defined its role and has not given full support to the creation of a preventive block, a preventive block and in the concept of education and in the concept of the further development of each individual. And I think it's a very important framework within which all the gatherings happen all the illegal acts, no matter what they're called. The issue of those crimes relating to the USKOK, organised crime where work exclusively towards adults speaks of the need for a simple permanent reorganisation and monitoring of those risk groups that should be exclusively subject to the interest of that special body of the State's attorney. And why is that? Because forms of administrative such organised crime, high-reaching crime cannot simply be paid at national level. The national level is too small for you to locate seriously organised crime. And that is simply a fact, a fact that clearly confirms both practice and theory through new legislative solutions etc. So, as much as the USKOK has succeeded in its work, as far as it is not, I think it is better to deal with perceptions of how to position it to be the maximum impact blade of the state's attorney's office in those specific projects, programmes and requests for illegal action that are particularly dangerous to society. And if he wasn't dealing with that "little" under quotes, clearly, no illegal action is small, but those other types of illegal action that simply don't need to be seen through it. And there is a strong energy to be created that needs to be solved, in fact, the most important problem of every society, and yet it is increasingly growing in organised crime and corruption that has its special features and always adapts. Of course, I'm going to be here for a little while, today, a time of high-tech open market, a regionally organised economy through the European Union, corruption and organised crime have become almost the monster of this century that simply has no limits anymore. And it is not possible to fight these illegal actions at both level and within individual countries. On the other hand, I would remind that ultraliberal or wild capitalism that has only one parole, and that each should be free to follow exclusively its own interest actually favours such a form of thinking and creates ideal variations that it is precisely rooting in every society. But there are exceptions. In fact, practice has shown in all countries that countries with authoritative regimes have the highest rate of organised crime and corruption. It means that democratic societies through the institutions of society are still the best response to the fight against this monster that has a far wider atmosphere at this point. Could individual robberies, murders that occur be excluded from the context of organised crime and corruption? No, I don't. Is there anything going on like a reflection? Well, sometimes it's not important to rob or liquidate something, but more important are the messages that these circles do in such a way. Therefore, this is a very serious task that I just think that BUSKOK should especially be organised in all segments so that it can combat such forms of contemporary illegal action. Are there any concrete things in our neighborhood that are highlighted? I would point out the problem of Italy. In order to reduce organised crime and corruption, strong institutions should be established and the autonomy of the balance and cooperation of three classical forms of government should be respected. It means legislative, executive and judicial. So-called The famous operation in Italy "clean hands" or "mani pulite" gave its results. There has been a breakdown of the entire political class, the entire political class, and the transformation of the Italian political landscape during the last decade of this century. Of course, that wasn't easy. That was very difficult. But that would never have happened if exactly the judicial authorities, the state's attorney's office, the judges hadn't found themselves on the banner and such actions that resulted in not only the success of the implementation, but the change of the ambience. By changing the ambience and creating the so-called. Italy's values, Italy's new systems that had new perceptions and which had just managed to change through the voice of the public. But in the end, I want to say, the fight against these illegal acts cannot be done without motivated civil servants. Motivated civil servants are crucial if we want to enforce any laws, both better and worse, because without motivated officials if a lawyer in the state's attorney's office is paid 5 thousand kuna or 10, and his prosecutor in the form of any legal person has 100 thousand kuna, they simply are not equal, they simply cannot be worn at that same level. Therefore, more must be invested in the overall motivation of civil servants, especially those of the officials most exposed to pressure. Because we live in the environment we live in. And we live in a better environment than our neighbors do. Therefore, it is precisely now time to put our position in advance to respond to what is expected of us by extracting such objective views. Joining the European Union will not reduce risks, but will increase them. We must be prepared for an increased risk in which not only the Croatian response will be sufficient, but also the Croatian institutions and Croatian systems should react, because that is the only way we will be able to fight the growing forms of illegal action, not only at national but at international level. And in that sense, wanting to make a contribution to the HSS Club that will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51007	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51008	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegation of a distinguished colleague, Markov, who blames both Croatian television and media and other television that they are guilty of increasing violence, given the emissions they show. However, the media play a completely different role, as is the case of little Mia Kaulin from Vinkovac, who died six months old because of the neglect of the welfare center. No one's answering anything, nothing's being done, and the situation is alarming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51009	So where is, where are you colleagues, Kovacevic correcting, wait a minute, correcting the incorrect allegations by claiming that a colleague Markov claimed that HRT was responsible for the increase in crime. ... Well, he didn't say that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He didn't say it at all, not even mention it. Don't. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. We've completed an individual discussion, just one moment. There are still 10 MPs reported for individual debates. So we can end this in due course of time. Today we would no longer go, taking into account the number of persons reported for this debate at the next point, this is the Report on the implementation of the Single Policy Strategy for people with disabilities. They'd leave that for next week. After this debate, the session will be held and prepared to vote on the items of the agenda. Among them is the vote and this secret vote for the State's Attorney's Council. Dear Representative Nenad Staisc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51010	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear State Attorney, you've written a good report, excellent report, transparently, clearly, contentably, richly, and it doesn't surprise us. The tradition of your good work continues. There's been a lot of talk here about the state's attorney's position as an independent and independent judicial body, which, however, there's not a word in your report. You don't write anything about it, and we're witnesses, for example. that the prime minister said I gave a warrant to the state's attorney to act one way or another and not in civil litigation, but in criminal proceedings. We can rightly suspect whether the position of your institution is independent and independent, if the prime minister publicly proves to be giving you orders. If he's giving you orders to do something, we can suspect he's giving you orders not to do something about what you should do. We wouldn't be happy if that was happening. But we would be pleased if in this report, perhaps in the coming year or in your final address today, you would clearly say whether you are fully independent and independent in your work or not. As far as the report itself is concerned, you wrote about USKOK on page 16 in a small amount of space, given the high expectations of the citizens of the office. The main task is the office's fight against organised crime and corruption. When you talk about corruption, then on page 32, corruption knows what it is, is abuse of the duties of the state government, illegal intervention, bribery, bribery, etc. You say a reduction in the number of customs applications with a simultaneous increase in perception of the corruption of civil servants suggests that we do not achieve the expected results in this area. With that sentence of your report, I agree. It is also self-critical of your office and it is quite accurate given how well you have seen what citizens expect. In that small number, the reduced number of reporting cases, the most processed cases relate to police officers, and the perception of our society among citizens is that we are a corrupt society and that perception is probably not without reason. Let's just remind ourselves of this case of peace talks, talks about taking bribes, and that's what I'm asking you, why such cases fail in court. Are they mistreated in your State's Attorney's Office or are they mistreated in court? Why don't we have a river here? Look, we're all witnessing the purchase of the council's mandate, the typical corrupt work, some kind of there... He admits, in public, that they offered him money, a suitcase full of money, that he was a vio case and that he saw the money. [[You don't understand.]] We don't have your institution's feedback yet. We have another case where the government minister is signing a contract to buy councilmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51011	We have a third case to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51012	I stick to the darkness, the darkness is...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51013	Report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office in 2004. And don't spread it now by saying about something that happened or allegedly happened this year. Be correct. According to the Rules of Procedure, be correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51014	I'm talking about our, uh, public perception as a corrupt society, and I'm proving that this perception is justified. I'm proving that perception justified. So now you see, in such cases, the evidence procedure is very short at least as far as this last case is concerned, because we have a contract. The contract is closed. I buy, I pay, I buy councilman, I pay for it with so much money. And there's a application for it. There's a report. So that's where I'm interested in how you explain this by your own admission the modest result of an institution that you're headed when it comes to corruption as one of the perhaps most important topics if we're talking about crime in this country, because we can't influence a significant reduction of... delicacies. There will always be a murderer, there will always be people who will reach out to such a type of crime and what can be done here. They can be processed, they can be processed, but it's hardly possible to do much with general prevention. In corrupt acts, I think that would be a much better effect, but to succeed in achieving at least part of the public's expectations in this regard. On page 16, when you talk about USKOK, you say: We think it is necessary to meet the conditions for the office to be able to meet quality experts outside the legal profession, etc. And here you're absolutely right, you're actually indirectly saying that you don't have any money, that the state budget didn't provide you with the money so that you could team up in that office and that you could better fight corruption and organised crime. When we warned the state budget that the state wasn't giving you any money, then you and our amendments were rejected by reason that the money was enough. Now here's your confirmation that there's not enough money. And I'm wondering if there's no money, and there isn't, then how can you possibly be successful with that BOOK if that country doesn't come out to meet you by providing you with enough resources. On page 20, you are talking about drug abuse, and that is very interesting that it is the mildest form, meaning possession in the total criminality of all those reported for drug abuse represented by 75%, that is the 173rd paragraph, Article 1. Penalty law. Well, we're efficient means through the State's Attorney's Office, we have a large number of people reported, we have a large number of trials in courts. But who are they? Owners. That's nice of you to say, you write there maybe for a joint or even a pot of marijuana. And now, if the State's Attorney's Office and the courts are going to be exhausted on a single-ass team, how will you ever manage to deal with the serious form of this crime, by persecuting organized crime of drug trafficking? Cases against official duty, I'm worried about a large number of rejections, as much as 85, over 85%. And what is the total social damage, say, when a judge commits a crime? Citizens lose their trust in the judiciary, lose their trust in the courts, so I'm wondering why there's such a big rejection. And finally litigation papers on page 41 of your report. There's the State's Attorney's Office as a prosecutor, as a prosecutor, successfully, but it's not successful, it's not that successful when the state's been sued. 41 thousand 56 items. An increase of 24% compared to the year before, the most numerous work disputes and you now say: However, the competent state authorities do not make voluntary payments within the deadline due to insufficient funds, so the basis of the agreed settlements is to launch unnecessary executives, etc. So we've got this almost obscenity lawsuit by the state because it doesn't provide funds to pay for what it has to pay. I warned you again about the budget, you have 200 convictions with these well-deserved citizens to pay them. 15 of them are powerful, all of them will become powerful next year. All that state's gonna have to pay, but they're gonna have to pay interest, they're gonna have to pay court costs. Well, that litigation isn't free. Well, there was something else to be made for that money, so the money that's going to be paid to the courts could be given to UskoK, so they'd be more effective in fighting corruption. So, I think, to conclude, our report is excellent, we should accept it, and he should, if you don't make at least an implication, warns of these big problems that we have to solve as a society.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51015	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51016	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Attorney General. I must say, in general, I believe that we have, whether we want to admit it or not, progress in the work of state lawyers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, this is an opportunity for me to say in a few minutes some of the problems and some of them, I must admit the undisciplined work of the state's attorneys. First of all, it seems to me that in Croatia, however, whether I want to admit it or not, the increase in the part about savings-credit cooperatives and it seems to me that in such cases the state's attorneys are not fast enough and in my deep conviction they even react unqualityly. Is there inability and what is said in the report on, on the one hand, incontinence, and on the other hand, the conditions for working in the state's attorneys remain to be seen. However, the fact is, and this is what my colleague Stazic was now talking about, that we were giving and it's always said that for all judicial authorities to work, it would take far more money from the state budget than it does. However, we are constantly told by the government and the ministry that the money for these needs is sufficient. I'm sure the state's attorney's report says that's not the case. I would also like to hear what statistics say about the growing number of frauds related to the sale of apartments in the Republic of Croatia. It's written a lot, but it seems to me that the number is growing, and that the case law insufficiently shows that we are coming, of course, with the state's attorney's office that should start the proceedings because of the crime, is cheating on how fast the reaction is. And it seems to me that the number of such frauds is growing, and judicial protection is unfortunately not fast enough and effective enough. I'm sure there's a good part of the influence that the state's attorney's office has in it. What I particularly want to point out, and I seem to be talking to a state attorney several times, it's a matter of equality in defining certain crimes. Unfortunately, we have a practice that says that for certain crimes the municipal state's attorneys, for example, do not call anyone in Slavonski Brod or Zagreb speak one way, in Koprivnica they speak quite another way. And it seems to me that there is a need for far greater coordination between county state attorneys as superiors, but the chief state attorney who should still give certain instructions in handling such matters. It is that the state's attorneys are also independent in their work, but it seems to me that, even with certain counseling, examples and everything else, it has taken more than ever. So, to show that we have a unique practice in the Republic of Croatia because in this way we will have far greater protection against persecution, whether protecting other participants in such things, which I do not think is the case at the moment. I would also like to say more about the effect of the state's attorney's office on the revision of conversion and privatisation. We can, we know that this House of the High has been discussing government audit reports, the effects of conversion and privatisation, and we know how many companies have been reviewed. However, we do not have until the end indicators of the impact on the courts, and I think we should work on that in particular. Another thing about which public perception is quite negative towards Croatia as a rule of law, which is how many cases exist in certain state attorneys held in drawers. These are cases that have been handled for years, there are no results and the public is little or no informed of what this is really about. I would really like, Mr. State Attorney, that we may get public information from certain county state attorneys how much more annual procedures are that someone consciously, I think often more talk than they really are, but to remove any possibility of doubt and leniency from the work of the state's attorneys. Because in them too we have to admit doing the right people who, I hope, and I have my own opinion that most of the state's attorneys are doing their job correctly. And what I'm about to finish with, and that's what I think the state's attorney's office unfortunately hasn't done enough of its tasks yet. I'll give you a concrete example. It's the protection of workers from their employers. Mr. State Attorney, I'll be very specific. The Dionycian Society "Itas" from Ivanac in Varazdin County, dissatisfied workers filed a criminal application at the beginning of October last year. It's unacceptable for any of them to be informed of what's going on. Meanwhile, the company went bankrupt, it came to light and workers pointed to malfeasance, crime in a commercial society. It took almost a year for the state's attorney's office to finally surface something. That when it surfaced, unfortunately, turned out that the workers were irreversibly damaged because they were from the company "Itas d.d." The expropriated property, the company's in bankruptcy, and suddenly they can't settle down out of bankruptcy. I would like to hear publicly, precisely and loudly who is to blame and whether there are state attorneys in the Republic of Croatia, and we know that for some cases when, I will not say, politics got involved, but when politics asked for the quick resolution and processing of certain cases to be done. Here when it comes to workers, over 300 of them, so it took almost a year for that powerful apparatus to start. So let the state's attorney's office say, we couldn't do our job quickly because the police, this one or that one, failed. But now, they have released stories to the workers of Ivanek "Itas" which will finally be and which is, there is a reasonable doubt that this is said in the legal jargon, that owners of different malversions have damaged the company by nearly 10 million kuna. There's probably more, but it's past time. No one can calm them down anymore. 300 people even strike hunger to launch such production. The question is what will be done, but most of them 300 will remain, ladies and gentlemen, without a job, on the road. Those of them, I think, are 12 or 13 salaries and travel expenses, and there is no bankruptcy mass from which it can be paid. I ask you and myself is the rule of law responsible for them losing their hard-earned salaries? It seems to me that we're also carrying a responsibility. He's responsible for quite certain, I don't know the name and last name who, but also the one who made it impossible for the state's attorney's office to do their job quickly and precisely. I'd like us to finally start talking about names in these reports. Because responsibility, I think it's the most important thing. By the way, there is one thing that was launched in Varazdin around the state country, where the same legal procedure should have been conducted. Unfortunately, the judiciary, I can't say how wrong this is, but certainly less, but the court and the case law can't be passed. State damaged. And that's why I would, here's what I have to say, is that there's still progress in the work of the state's attorney's office. However, I personally believe and advocate without too much political influence, but that in the state's attorneys there is little more feeling that after a criminal application has been filed, those who file for it are relatively quick to get some knowledge of what is going on. Here today I read in the newspaper also Solin company "Salonite" has filed a criminal report is, if I read well anonymously or anything, but when such sensitive things are, because there are vulnerable jobs and everything else there is always a way to inform the public about what they are doing and how they are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51017	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51018	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. In these few minutes I want to first support the work of the State's Attorney's Office in a way that will support the State's Attorney's Office's report for the past year. I believe that in a very understandable and exhaustive way, the work of our entire State's Attorney's Office has been presented. However, I would like to draw attention to a few facts stemming from this report that have been warned by previous speakers before me. First of all, I am also concerned by the huge number of unknown perpetrators as well as everyone else who has stepped forward. I'm starting to wonder if it's really possible for a total number of unknown perpetrators to start reaching almost 50%, I think it's a 49% number. I remind you that in the 2003 report, the share of unknown perpetrators stood at 44%. So in this year we have an increase of 5%. I dare say it seems to me, unfortunately, paints and impotence, so perhaps partly the inability of a part of the state's apparatus to successfully combat crime, and I think it probably confirms the recent statements made by the current police minister about the corruption of a part of the police. I use this opportunity to call and appeal to all the competent authorities to investigate such statements by the police minister as soon as possible, in the name of all those I am deeply convinced of the vast majority of police officers who, I am convinced, are committed and honestly doing their duties. When it comes to comparisons of crime, that is, crime, crime in Croatia and in neighbouring countries, of course, it is good to compare with countries that are closer or wider, but it seems to me and we must be aware of that and bear in mind that Croatian citizens of course are primarily interested in the number of crimes, whether in Croatia there is an increase or not in crime, whether in Croatia there is an increase or not in violent acts, serious murders, theft, etc. So they are primarily interested in their sense of security of life in their own country. Furthermore, yesterday and on the Committee on Gender Equality, we expressed our concern that, in your opening statement today, you said that out of 1%, there was a decline in drug crimes, but in fact 70% of those acts are still related to drug possession. Your deputy was at the Committee meeting yesterday, of course he couldn't quite find the right answer, which is why, but from the debate, it was only possible that it could mean that we were still powerless to suppress the drug mafia and those, I say, the bosses who are actually holding the drug market in Croatia, and even wider, regardless of what is recently, we have witnessed, we have had opportunities to read and break several international drug chains. The last thing I'd like to look back on is this part of the report relating to the display of criminal offences. In one part of the criminal protection of children and minors against sexual freedom, sexual miracle, against marriage and the family of youth, i.e. for the first time this year, I think we have a special suit, it is the violent behavior of the family and I welcome this, although in fact it just means that violent behavior in the family, i.e. the application has reached such a level that I express myself, that they obviously deserve a particular chapter. I can partly agree with the conclusion that such a huge increase in applications compared to last year does not mean that the drastic increase in domestic violence. I dare say this, that in fact in the work of the combination I would say positive, I would say the effects that we have all done together over the past few years, but we have done both systematically and in the past 2 years, related to the fight against domestic violence, the National Strategy for the fight against violence, the special protocol of this year, etc., but I would like to warn myself that in the report for the following year, so that we will discuss, that is, the report that will cover this year, we will continue to be faced with an increase in domestic violence. Nime, a few days ago, the police administration provided information that by November 23rd of this year, 9,000 930 cases related to domestic violence were reported, which is a 20.8% increase compared to the same period last year. I apologize for making a parallel in this way and may be heading to the future of what the State's Attorney's Office's report will look like next year. When we talk about such behaviours, I agree with the findings of the State's Attorney's Office, you have it on page 65, which speaks of data that, as so far as the courts choose sanctions in most cases, they opt for a conditional conviction as a warning measure. Despite the increase in prison sentences, the state's attorney's office is not satisfied and cannot be satisfied with the penalties imposed in certain cases and we appreciate that the state's attorneys are not sufficiently selectively complaining about the court's decisions on punishment. Given that one similar warning, i.e. the day's finding and in the 2003 report, is, in fact, I call on the State's Attorney's Office in some way that, in cooperation with state bodies, it is really working on what we call both judicial reform and criminal law reform, and that these findings would not be repeated year after year in your reports. In addition to this, I have a flyer here, reminding me that a few days ago 25.11. was International Day Against Violence Against Women. The topic of this year's action led by NGOs was cases of rape with depictions of the description of the work, but also of the convictions that the courts have issued for those acts. In fact, the action went towards showing that in a large number of cases inappropriately small penalties were imposed along with I would say sometimes scandalous arguments. In this case, it's about a 15-year-old girl, the protégé of a home for children for whom the rape has been raped, and she's got a picture of two years in prison. This was only in favor of mine, and this is therefore your finding that in some way we are working on what is actually the practice of our courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51019	Thank you. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51020	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. State's Attorney. Here is the report on the work of the state's lawyers in the State of Croatia in the last year. I'd say we can see it. So, in any case, it's a recording of the state of crime in the last year, and in some ways from all these figures, they would say that with the state of crime in our country, we could be satisfied because according to comparable data that exist in neighbouring countries that we are in a good position but, as it is said in the debate, we cannot be satisfied and we must strive for a better one. I look forward to the announcement by the state's attorney that he will in some way serve this criminal policy, that more often the state's lawyers will complain about the court's decisions and in any case the percentage of 77% of the post-application procedure is actually talking about a high percentage of the application but I would like the State's Attorney's Office to work on its own, so that some of them appear to investigate and only start procedures and without telling those official applications. I'd point out some things I'm not happy with, which is when it comes to drugs. Yesterday, we discussed this particular issue, and I mentioned that out of 7.5 thousand around the attorney's office's application, about 5.5 thousand were launched and 4.5 thousand were convicted. I think it's in that whole chain somehow I'd say too mild an approach because in this exhibit, you said yourself that out of these 77% of the procedures that have been initiated, I'm thinking about 75% of the drugs here, but that's mostly about those who own drugs and not these dispatches. And now I would, because of this great evil drug that is actually threatening, horrendously threaten every society and especially this small as it is Croatian. I would like this State's Attorney's office to increase these percentages of the process and make it much bigger because without strong repression, we have no chance of any measures we take to fight drugs, anything in this regard, to fix. So I appeal that, in that part of the attorney's office, things are a little bit sharper and much sharper to deal with this evil at least equally. The second question concerns war crimes. Various crimes, as we know, don't go out of date. I've also been on the Human Rights Committee on the subject, and it's been a month since I said I expected the State's Attorney's Office to finally initiate acts against communist and Partisan crimes that took place in 45 years. A fresh example was the burial of the Macean victims about a month ago. No one has ever responded to these crimes in this country, and there are living witnesses and unfortunately live perpetrators. The other thing is war crimes from the Homeland War, access to these crimes. Media access to these crimes gives the impression that Croats committed more crimes than the Serbs who attacked us. And what bothers me is that I think most of Croatia's citizens are bothered by an impression created by the so-called renewed procedures, and somehow there is an impression that the proceedings are being renewed in case the Croats are freed of suspicion of a crime in order to restore them to condemn themselves. We've got the Laura case, we've got the Carlovite, so I don't keep counting. And a case of likely crimes where Serbs are accused of crime and sentenced to be renewed, and then their sentences are reduced, as was the case for Scabrnje. These are two kind of examples and it kind of creates a picture, it's bad that in fact all these renewed procedures are actually based on the data of the Sava Strubec that I think the State's Attorney's office should be accused in absentia. And that's why, and this number of cases of dismissed and suspended proceedings, so 484 as far as it's concerned, I think it's too large a number, that these 30 indictees certainly weren't able to commit this many crimes in Croatia. And that is why I believe that the abolition was and it was a necessary move for Croatian society to finally move on. But we can't abolize war crimes because it wasn't predicted by the abolization. We still had an inexplicable case like Dr. Schreter in Pacrac. Living witnesses, living in Pakrac, and even the leaders of the rebellion that are now in prominent places. I would like the State's Attorney's Office to shed light on all these cases so that it doesn't turn out that Croatia is persecuting and doubtful only those who fought for the defence of this country on their own territory and that it's Abbolizing those who attacked us both from our country and from the territory of the neighbouring country. That's why I expect the attorney's office to be there in a legal sense with no pressure or political or media, that no witnesses happen as in the case of Laura who are war criminals, for which there are witnesses. I think it is not good and that such phenomena in Croatian society should be avoided. There's a few more things when it comes to jumping. Well, I'd just mention that I expect that even in the case of Lipik Health Recreation Center, I think that this material has come to the State's Attorney's Office, and that's where an investigation is launched because you're so-called. The strategic partners from Munich live in Pantovchak, so I would like you to make your contribution here, and that case to be lit up as soon as possible. In addition, I end up supporting this report because it is good, systematic, it gives a review of the state and struggles of the State's Attorney's Office in order to achieve as fair as possible the outcomes of all these procedures as I consider the State's Attorney's Office to be the most important institution in the conduct of justice. And the way the State's Attorney's Office is doing now gives me some kind of certainty that we're going that way, that the State's Attorney's Office is guaranteeing that we're as close to justice and justice as possible, that it will continue that trend in the future, because these indicators from last year show that it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51021	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51022	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Babic, is a representative of Babic's, MP Bashic said about war crimes. I'd just line up that Vukovar, which is really over 2,000 people, is only killed in 3 months, we still have 550 missing people we're asking today that 3 people can't be held accountable for such crimes by those who walk the city of Vukovar. I'd ask the state's attorney to initiate proceedings. We, coming from the camp, gave our reports. It's been standing in drawers for 10 years and I'm asking that they be launched for those we've given the evidence to initiate the proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51023	Second replica, Honored Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51024	Thank you, Mr. President, my colleague Bacic has already mentioned cases in which it has not been solved have not actually been found who the culprit is related to and war crimes. I think that today should really ask a question about war crimes committed in 1945 or after war conflicts because these crimes do not go on forever as well. I will refer only to cases relating to Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik area. First of all, I mean "Daxa" for the murders that followed in 1944, at the end of 1944, so in October of the month and the "Orsula" where many innocent people were killed without any trial. Among them are intellectuals, priests. So it would be good to hear if anything triggered in that sense? We know that there are reports against unknown perpetrators and known perpetrators and unknowns and that this thing really deserves to be enlightened even after 50 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51025	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51026	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Chief Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. Just before us is an excellent report with a series of details that can indicate clearly which direction other parts of Croatian society must react and act. So it seems to me at all unwarranted, and we heard earlier where he told his colleague about keeping in drawers, about the cover-up of cases, because I also want to thank Mr. Chief State Attorney, as well as his associates, who are now denying these reports, but also countless of those that have not been covered up, that there are no drawers, but that the process and evidence is being carried out. Or even earlier in the discussion of the review and privatisation where counterpart Nenad Stazic unfounded and incorrectly and unwarrantedly told about the case of the cover-up or failure of the then public prosecutor, the current president, Mr. Seks, in the case of Ankica Lepoj, was never exactly or truthfully but only one political moment where he wanted to be in the assembly, noting and repeating the unfounded allegations that something was being held in drawers. It has never held on or held on, and it will not stick because our society and legal security accepts democracy, it wants to be achieved in all segments and accepts the standards of the developed world both in line with new technologies. In the annual report, it could be even more severe to warn about the state and functioning of the legal system, the lack of legislation, the internal business of the State's attorney's office or courts and the appropriate proposals for changes, since the state's attorney's office is an unexhausted potential. Of course, I'll just look back at some segments of this report that seem most important to me, precisely in the structure of the criminality of adult and minors, I'd stick to criminal and legal protection of children and juvenile crime and the criminality of minors because by detecting these things, we can act preventively so that this later number doesn't increase. Certainly, in relation to the structure of crime, the most is reported for crimes against property: 42.2%. And for crimes related to drug abuse 30%. We just had reports of this vicious addiction yesterday, and we know what to do because these crimes are also increasing compared to the previous year. But wanting to also highlight what seems most important to me except criminal and legal responsibilities, persecution that is still an important segment, I would say an important segment of the State's Attorney's office in the book of real rights to the Republic of Croatia and general goods. By 1 January 2007, state attorneys are obliged to carry out land books in the book of ownership rights as well as all other real rights which are borne by the Republic of Croatia. The goods that the Republic of Croatia cares about should be recorded, which relate to public roads and especially to maritime goods. It is also a matter of priority and certainly one of the most demanding matters in the jurisdiction of the civil and administrative departments of the state's attorneys. It seems primarily to me that it should put an emphasis on the agricultural land registration because without the setting up of ownership-legal relations it is not possible to make available to agricultural land, to rent and then often say why our proceedings are slow going? Why are building permits even when it comes to large buildings and projects cannot be realised because property-legal relations are not resolved? I also point out in the booklet of maritime goods as a general good because of the great demos and further availability and maritime good through concessions. The other day we were discussing tourist land and we see what is the amount of land that did not enter the basic capital, which uses individual hotel houses without legal basis. What is it for us to do? We certainly need to do so in order to more effectively implement the registration of real rights to the Republic of Croatia in the land books as a record of the general goods concerned by the Republic of Croatia, to step up cooperation with all, with all entities responsible for this implementation. The Central State Office for State Property Management, Ministry of Agriculture, Croatian Roads, Croatian Motorways, but I would stress to municipalities, cities and counties where much of these jobs can be speeded up and arranged. I am particularly concerned about and concerned about the very book of maritime goods because it is characterized by two important features. The constant lack of records of maritime goods in the catastra and land books or any other records. And especially huge... in the most important questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The result is thousands of illegal registrations of property rights. The case-to-case analysis of the case-to-case case-by-case analysis shows that courts allow the right of ownership to be recorded and where it is bleached that this cannot be done by culture or by the position of the land particle. For example, the mall, harbor, beach, lug, gat, shipyard can not be carried out in books without harming the Republic of Croatia, a country that has a great maritime good, coastal and island. Because here, according to the report itself, a total of 112 new proposals were submitted during 2004 for the entry of the maritime goods code on various grounds. It's covered, please, 721 thousand 906 square meters of maritime goods. Municipal courts in land books conducted an entry of maritime goods on the surface of the 384 thousand coast. Part of the proposal has been rejected, and part has not been decided yet. Certainly, in order to protect the maritime goods and prevent its further devastation, it is necessary to provide funds for systematic border determination and the implementation of the records, to establish both an efficient and numerous maritime inspection, because the devastated maritime good cannot be returned to the former as it was. Moreover, as the report also suggests, it is clear and therefore the quality of the report is even greater, that, as soon as possible, the Maritime Good Law is amended in order to resolve and regulate the issues in question and thus significantly increase the level of legal protection of maritime goods. In particular, what is also processing and modernising this report, it highlights the fact that the state's attorney's office has stepped up the work of all the attorneys in a way that redistributes the cases from those state's attorneys who have had major delays in the less-loaded state's attorneys' offices and have achieved results in the work considered appropriate constitutional and legal competences as expected in the criminal justice system. It also pointed out, by listing the 2004 data, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice made significant efforts to modernize, equip state lawyers, not only with office materials, but also with information equipment, education to increase the efficiency of work not only by state attorneys but also by other parts of the judicial system. And that would also improve the protection of maritime goods, especially when establishing the limit of maritime goods, I repeat, and we must not save on those means. Each concession will be returned double, order will be entered and further devastation of the Croatian Adriatic, coastal and island islands will be stopped. So I think this report should be supported and most important things used to further standardise our system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51027	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51028	It is not entirely true that he claims from his colleague Peronja that the report results in the government providing sufficient resources. Read on page 16 of the report, exactly the opposite of what you said, "We consider it necessary to create conditions for the office to be able to meet quality experts because hiring these professionals is necessary...", etc., etc. Why now if the report says "A" you claim not to say "A" but to say "B"?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51029	Replica, Honored Representative Frano Matušić. ... You can't take a colleague of Peronja on a replica to correct an incorrect quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative Pero Kovacevic gave up and withdrew the application. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51030	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, already in the debates and clubs so far, and in individual debates, this report is praised as a comprehensive and good report, here we hear the second or third year in a row, and it reads the ever-increasing and more up-to-date work of the state's attorney's office. I would agree that we have a comprehensive and good report ahead of us, but I would say and warn that perhaps some other analyses would be welcome so that we could discuss better and better quality the state of crime in our country, as well as the state of protection of state interests in the property-legal sense. So we can, here we heard at the beginning of the debate we were somehow caught up with these neighbouring countries first, and then we had the number of criminal applications, but compared to Croatia, and that's what we're interested in and that's good. But if we wanted to compare, then we'd have to have data for neighbouring countries, how many of these applications and how it ended, whether they were rejected, whether they were processed, they'd gone to the defendants, how judgmental they are, and then we could compare that to our data. In this way, we do not know whether this small number of criminal charges in our country really mean better and less crime or meaning and simply maybe some state of mind or state of resignancy of our citizens, so that they don't really believe in this judicial system, that they don't see much benefit from the applications submitted. Well, then they say that if they accidentally file a criminal report, they can actually become victims, too. So without that information, we don't know that. The same way we were astounded by the number of almost 50% criminal charges against unknown perpetrators. We clearly immediately suspected that it was the bad and unquality work of our police. However, without data on criminal charges, how many of these applications have been filed by citizens or other bodies, and how many of the Ministry of the Interior can't we talk about this information where criminal charges against the unknown perpetrator, in which segment they are more numerous, would certainly make that picture clearer. Likewise, I'm just commenting here numbers from which different wrong or completely incorrect conclusions can be drawn. It's clear that citizens' perception is also extremely important because that you don't live better, but you don't know that you feel better, so we don't interpret them living in an ideal state without crime and without corruption, and they don't actually feel it every day. But I would say that again an extremely important methodology, it is important that citizens know clearly what a crime is, a corrupt crime, it is important that there is a unique methodology in the State's Attorney's Office's reports. Likewise in the reports of some international organisations, so to be clear, it's how the state of corruption is recorded in one country, whether it's just stories, whether it's according to judgments, etc. The same as it was, as has been stated today in the debate that the criminal offences of drug abuse are actually very bad or may be suspected of being protected by some large-scale criminals, that in the reported criminal offences of drug abuse 75% refers to Article 183(1). So, that easier form of drug possession. So now there's the number of pots of marijuana and so on. We would have talked much clearer because we also heard in the debate that two drug chains were broken, but we would have talked much better and more clearly if we knew how to say the weight of these crimes. It is logical that the largest number of criminal charges is because these drug users who are caught with some small joint or obstetrics are far greater than the number of criminal charges, and the large number of criminals is less but are more serious to them and the number of criminal acts themselves does not point to a valid analysis, and I certainly do not consider that it should be readable to decriminalise this form of criminality of drug abuse because we see that with the institutes available to the State Attorney's Office can act educationally according to this population and therefore have the possibility of rejecting the application in the event of a small insignificant criminal offence, therefore, if this is a minor social hazard equal to that the principle of the opportunity can mainly young and minors be referred to mandatory treatment, in the process of drug withdrawal or other addicts, and then not to the prison. And here I would tell the state attorney that he's not worried, that this institute is a good institute, that he's exorcising actually the judiciary, and that at this stage I wouldn't worry that it's possible, are too mild state lawyers because 81% of the court's judgment has been made and there's no objection as to why it's usually only the first crimes committed, certainly that in the case of relapse, then there's no criminal order so it can be deleted. And here's the last piece of information that would be valuable to us, and that's where the state's attorney's office ex-legis represents the state in the protection of its property interests and rights. It would be extremely valuable to us to know about the length of the lawsuits that the State's Attorney's Office is representing the state because I am data that has been successfully completed in things where the state's attorney is 58% litigation, that part of the settlement has been completed and that part of the lawsuits lost could be better valorised if we knew whether this procedure was obtained or lost after 10 or 15 years of having cases or within a reasonable period of time. What am I saying? And here I am going back to the court's litigation, and here I'm saying that the State's Attorney General as an independent body really represents an ex-lege state and defends its state interests regardless of the warrants and should make sure that the commitment of the state that is now largely large in working disputes, and why we've already had the opportunity to hear that, because those rights that are civil servants of the day are not fulfilled, and when they are then given by the government that gave them were to fulfill them. But as it is, these are the other obligations of the state, and obvious claims should be adopted rather than litigated, as the damage to the country will be far greater. And one more thing, Mr. State's Attorney. I see there's a paragraph that speaks of legal opinions etc. So we've had cases in our time, and we have today where the State's Attorney's Office gives consent to the sale of apartments that sold local self-government units, and we have cases, and that's where the State's Attorney's Office has been fine with the seals, and that's how the apartments were sold, and then after five years of suing that same attorney's office against the units of local self-government and the acquirer of such a contract, and then it complicated things, and on our inquiry why it wasn't said, we just said it because we had so many so we had to. Here are the important things, the big things, the big things, the big things, the big things, and that's what needs to be taken care of. Thank you very much. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51031	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51032	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect assumption where a colleague says that we do not know what is being read from this data when she talked about comparison with other countries, means where only 2177 criminal charges have been made in Croatia, while in Austria it is three times more, in Italy twice as many, in Hungary twice as, twice as many, in Slovenia. It is said that in spite of the index of perception, corruption in Croatia is a promised country for all citizens of these other countries and means that there is no crime in us and we will be the ideal country to accommodate their dissatisfied people to come to Croatia because we are promised country, there is no crime in us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51033	Replica, respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51034	Mr. President, more like a supplement, it seems to me to be very accurate analyses that the colleague has given in terms of the methodology and image we're getting. It seems to me that, with regard to the work of USKOK, there is one serious phenomenon or there is a lot of evidence that our failed fight against transformed and organised crime has led to the fact that already this organised capital, criminal capital is entering legal spheres and that, in some way, it is occupying already legal activity and it is gaining great economic and political power, so it seems to me, in this sense, that it will need to develop a methodology of recognition and the fact that even in the media, some members of the criminal mile already have praise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51035	Thank you. Second replica, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51036	Analyzing what this report says about the abuse of intoxicating drugs, the colleague says that from the very fact that the possession of small amounts of drugs is a meaningless act, which is behind 75% of the reported cases that it does not require reading that it should actually be criminalised. That's not the conclusion that needs to be made, says a colleague. I'm asking you colleagues, you haven't offered any other conclusion. Not at all. And what else can we conclude than just this when we see how the State's Attorney's Office handled these reports. The police have to report it. He has to, because he's been described as a felony. He finds a joint, he has to. What's he gonna let go of? He has to report it. What's the state's attorney's office doing? Part of this goes into rejection because of the insignificantness of the crime in older people, in younger people, a minor goes according to the principle of opportunity in rejection. And now what have we done? What do we have in the system? We have in the system that we've occupied the police to deal with this, that it's already going down at the State's Attorney's office, it doesn't even come to court. He doesn't even come to court. And now that that would be decriminalized, if the police didn't have to deal with the team because it's also a zero effect, and so it's zero, then the police could do more serious business, but what I'm saying is a logical conclusion. And now that you're saying that you can't figure it out, I'm asking you what you can figure out. Let's keep it this way and let's have inefficient police, we'll have good statistics 75%, resulting in all the zeroes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51037	Replication response. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51038	Comrade Stazic, the conclusions are not incorrect in the first place, they are inadmissible. What do we conclude, and what might we conclude? We could conclude the severity of the crime. I said 75% of the report of the waste to the criminal offenses in paragraph 173 of the 1st, so drug possession. 25% of criminal charges in connection with the crime of drug abuse are dropped on those other crimes, so serious crimes. By the logic of these perpetrators' things there's more to assume, these less, but harder and if we got that data for the weights of banned penalties then we could talk differently, that's what I said. Why do I think so? Do you think it is wrong to apply the principle of opportunity so that a youth under which a state attorney may decide to postpone the start of a prosecution if a reported person agrees to undergo a drug withdrawal procedure or other addictions. Is that bad? I think it's a good thing that a minor or a younger adult is headed for drug withdrawal and that he is told that this is not a desirable behavior. And somewhere else. Is it written somewhere that the police must first catch or report all those who have committed a crime, suspected of committing a crime referred to in Article 173(1), and then just dealing with serious criminals, and then these are disturbing her in the business. So, the police can catch heavy criminals, and this is also good to keep it from being prevented as a felony to say that it's not socially desirable behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51039	Let the nets be crucified. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51040	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Chief Attorney. Well, I would also like to point out that the report on the work of state lawyers in 2004 and in methodological terms and content, therefore, is acceptable. The substrates are facts, i.e. in the Report we find such facts and their professional analysis that they give a real picture not only of the work of the state's attorneys at all levels but also of the real picture of the state of crime and crime in 2004. However, despite the fact that the State's Attorney General is based on Article 124. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has its primary role, therefore, to act as an independent and independent judicial body against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences very interesting those indicators in the report concerning the taking of legal actions in order to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and to make legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the law. This shall, of course, take into account Article 2(1) and Article 15. Law on State's Attorney's Office. In particular, I would like to highlight the problem, therefore, under 1 working disputes or what we have in this segment itself, therefore, covered as a problem of work disputes. And secondly, all that applies in this report to the protection and treatment of state attorneys when it comes to the Institute of Maritime Good. As far as labour disputes are concerned, it is very indicative that in the structure of court cases in which the State's attorneyship represented the Republic of Croatia's dominant role, i.e. the most numerous are these disputes. Receipts for labour disputes are about 60% higher, and the fact that in this sense the Republic of Croatia, ministries and other state bodies are being sued. Therefore, they have been sued in 27 thousand 795 cases, and in particular it should be pointed out that the largest number of lawsuits relate to the requests of civil servants and subsistences and public officials for the payment of material rights recognised by collective agreement. So this is about overtime, work on Saturdays and Sundays, regression and other employees' rights in the system of state administration, i.e. civil servants and tenants. It is absolutely necessary to agree with the state's attorney's position that these types of disputes are unnecessary burdens both for courts and for the state's attorney's office, but also for the resolution ministries. The conduct of such unnecessary procedures causes, therefore, direct costs on the burden of the state budget, and they also increase multiple in terms of behaviour and at least because of 3 elements. So, and because of the tight interest and the costs of lawyers and the skills and, of course, similar costs. In the sense of State attorneys’ conduct, therefore, that provision of the article, the amended Article of the Law on litigation, 186a, applies. Therefore, the possibility of making direct settlements, however, when such settlements, i.e. the recognition of claims, or obviously when the state's attorney's office comes into a position to recognise the claim, we have the same illogical situation. So, to base such agreements, actually because of the inability to pay off, therefore, executive proceedings are being restarted as one specific judicial procedure. When considering the overall problem of this type of conduct of state attorneys, it is concluded that this problem should be analysed in detail first. In both financial and legal terms. But also in terms of responsibility for the conclusion of such collective agreements, on the one hand. On the other hand, the inability to provide financial resources in order to ensure that those rights which have been recognised are actually granted to those recognised by the contract itself, i.e. by collective agreement and enforcement. What do I want to point out? In that sense, this report of the state's attorney's office, I think it's also missing because it doesn't give us enough resistance, let's say to the superficial reader, the one I want to get really into the problem of this kind of state's attorney's behaviour, to see why, in fact, when, in what time period, there was exactly an enormous increase in these cases. As this is reflected in the state budget, which are projections or positions of follow-up that these problems actually come down to one normal measure, to one reasonable measure. Because this kind of build-up of objects and this sort of resolution, and then doing the state's attorney's office itself certainly gives one picture, one not only perception, but one picture in the work of the state's attorney's office. In fact, one procedure in court proceedings with a certain, therefore, with certain effects, or the results of these proceedings, costs are accumulated. So, indeed, something that needs to be well analysed first and then analyzed from the state's attorney's position, say perhaps in such or similar reports, which, and how, in other segments of the state's government, to this number of actions, and that, of course, we don't come in or out of these situations anymore, and that we have had the opportunity to hear in the opening statement, the situation will certainly be remedied in that sense. But I am personally interested in that depth of the problem which is the real cause of these huge disputes and these great costs. So finally, of course, according to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and when these commitments were made and how they were created. Second, as far as maritime goods are concerned, the concerns of the state's attorney's office in terms of protection, therefore, of the maritime goods themselves. So, first of all, the lack of record of maritime goods should be highlighted, both in the cataster and in the land books. In addition to that fundamental finding that in this segment of work, state attorneys are actually protecting maritime goods is one, in my assessment, of the most important tasks of the state's attorney. We have in the report all data and analysis as to how the State's Attorney's Office acted, that is, how it took care of this segment of ownership of the Republic of Croatia. And what is really imposed as a conclusion, that, despite the great effort, otherwise, from the many and many of these subjects, the state's attorney's office should firstly create a normative framework in order to protect the maritime well-being of the Republic of Croatia in the right and in the right and in the future. The fact is that we cannot and cannot be satisfied here, because there are neither systematically defined maritime goods borders nor real records or effective maritime inspections. From this report of the State Attorney's Office, we actually see, under quotes "in this sense" or in that segment a certain subjugation, and when there is a reaction, that is to say, we all know where the problem is, but unfortunately neither the State's Attorney's Office can ultimately expect the best or the right result, and that is the absolute or maximum protection of the maritime goods, the maritime goods therefore as property property, so let's call it property owned by the Republic of Croatia. In fact, I would like to say that when I have analysed this segment of the work of the State Attorney's Office, it is my personal conclusion that either through the provisions of the maritime goods or other sublegal acts that regulate that matter or the activities of the units of local or regional self-government, we actually need to agree or set one right, so that by virtue of their jurisdiction and the State's attorneyship, the basis of our actions in the right way to protect the maritime well-being, that there is not so much devastness that there really is and that, in fact, from the very jurisdiction itself, things could be put in place to the future in the best possible way, and even from this base, from the conduct of the State's attorney, or only the maritime goods could be protected in a better way than they are today. And in conclusion, therefore, it is absolutely necessary to support only the Report, it is quality-made as regards both the facts and the ways in which they are processed and the ways in which they are actually presented to this High House and indeed each of us MPs if he has read it and if he has analyzed it can obtain a real picture of the state of crime in the Republic of Croatia. The core of each report is indeed that, and if it is the core, and it is then affected, and all of these irregularities or the negative things that are emerging, which are like reality here, I think that the acceptance of this report actually needs all these things that are presented in the Report as something that needs to be fixed, should be better designed and in the work of the State's attorney, especially as regards organised crime and the Office for the Prevention of Organized Crime, but also all those other segments of crime, that we are also here to point out that we are, of course, also in this legislative sense, but also in the sense of the launch of the appropriate ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51041	Thank you very much. Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51042	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's another sentence. So the annual report on the work of the state's attorneys in 2004 should be presented and accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51043	Thank you. Replica, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51044	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I was encouraged by my colleague Tomljanović on the protection of maritime goods I think it would be good to hear what the State's Attorney's office actually did in the case of "Viktor Lenca" because we know that the maritime good has entered the basic capital of society and the worse the mortgage is placed on that maritime well-being. So it would be interesting to hear what was going on in that case. The second thing, as far as unsolved cases are concerned, I think it would be good to light up today, here's the opportunity, the attorney general is here recently in the debate on the conversion and privatisation of fellow Stazic even directly accused our current president of taking part in the cover-up of the alleged application submitted by Mrs. Ankica Lepej, so it would be good to hear what actually happened specifically in the case of Ankica Lepoj when she filed that application, to whom she submitted and what was really happening. There's no reason for the truth not to be presented here in front of us. And the third thing about war crimes, I've already said before, I think it's really time we found out after 60 years what the participants of these communist crimes are before the end of II. World War II in particular. The World War not only for the Dubrovnik area of course but for all the sites that have been happening, it is time for the historical truth to be known for the past generations, but also for those who come after us. Thus, this is an extremely important question, so when historical truth is learned, we will be able to properly judge everything that happened at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51045	Replica response, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51046	Well, I have no doubt that the attorney general will answer questions here specifically now, given that my colleague's replicated me. Well, that's why I've also problemed or wanted to point out in this report the problem of maritime good when you look back at the problem of maritime good, because it's not just Victor Lenac, where we've had opportunities and even here in the debates, to see what kind of irregularities were involved, especially when it was in the book of maritime goods, practically private companies, i.e. private-owned companies. Unfortunately, this does not stop the devastation of maritime goods, and in this very sense we expect the State's Attorney's Office to be teamed up in this sense and to actually launch the initiative if one of the problems needs to be regulated normally in another way, so that as an initiative, I think it should be launched and we should look at this problem in a way that is, therefore, a quality protection of maritime good. These other things you've replicated to me I think that the state's attorney will have answers to all these specific questions and that in fact some of these answers are being imposed and a detailed reading from this report itself. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51047	Another replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51048	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Tomljanovic, even the title of the topic is not the state of political crime but the Annual report on the work of the state's attorneys, so you cannot draw the conclusion from the statistics of the State's Attorney's Office that the state of crime is better. It just can't stand. Secondly, if you're going to have political qualifications and disqualifications based on the State's Attorney's Report, then you'd better ask how today's affairs are solved. We can name the type "Bechtel", so the type "Liburnia Riviera" hotels, then we could draw a conclusion, some political conclusion on whether the work of the State's Attorney's Office is progressing in countering crime. This is simply not covered by the report, so we cannot judge another fact. We know from our knowledge outside the report that the State's Attorney's Office has not been followed by funds or personnel teams. We cannot ignore the fact that recently happened, so all political conclusions stand only out of our heads, not out of the report itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51049	Replica response, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51050	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, Lecko. Not once in my sentence did I look back politically on the report on the work of a state attorney, on the contrary and in the opening part, and in the end I said that this is a set of presented facts that gives a real picture of the state of crime in the Republic of Croatia, so what is realistic and that as real facts are professionally processed and that any of us who carefully read this can learn a lot about the state of crime and make certain conclusions, absolutely cannot debate this topic in terms of my presentation or replicate it as from some political point of view. For you, the themes of maritime good and the launch of strong labour-legal disputes are known to be when collective agreements, which have created this country's millions of damages, are practically millions of damages that this country will have to pay. Is that politics? Is politics when a parliamentary representative in the debate says that the work of the State's Attorney's Office can be even better, that we should be better organized to protect the maritime well-being. Well, you read the report on the investigation committee for Victor Lenac, so you could see there that the State's Attorney's Office responded immediately and that the illegal things and actions that were related to enrollment in the property of the maritime good had been resolved. That's what I don't think is politicizing. You're the one who politicized. I've been trying in this segment to do as much analysis as I can from the professional point of view of what's been presented here and no politicizing at least on my part has been.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51051	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today again in these debates, controversy, replication of my name and in the context of my role as public prosecutor 13 years ago in 1992. Then about the debate he had over the discussion on the revision of the conversion and privatisation, the respected representative Stazic, who made during his presentation that Mrs. Ankica Lepej had called him immediately before his speech and told him that she had sent me some documentation relating to certain criminal proceedings, criminal charges and that I had not done so and that I had covered it up. Now you're out again and you're pulling it. I have been elected in this House as public prosecutor of the last Republic of Croatia on 10 April 1992, was on the post until 10 August of the same year. That submission came and put in a regular procedure. Today, the question again arises that I, as a public prosecutor, had covered something up. So the title was the second day after Mr. Stazic's appearance in the morning list "SDP accused Vladimir Seks of covering up economic crime" or corruption, in that style. So, if I covered it up, I'd cover it up. We've got the paperwork. I didn't cover anything up, but neatly as a public prosecutor, I sent this letter to the state's attorney's office, and this letter to this lady, which is in the state's attorney's procedure. Please, let the state attorney who's here take a look at that, too, because I don't want to keep repeating that question that I covered up the launch and conduct of some criminal corruption or any other crime 13 years ago. Final review Chief State Attorney Mlada Bajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51052	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament! I must admit that I am personally surprised by how much attention you have read and analyzed the report on the work of state lawyers in the Republic of Croatia for 2004 and I must say that I have made a really significant number of suggestions of your observations or better-intentioned suggestions on the quality of the work of state attorneys as well as the methodology of monitoring the state and movement of crime data as well as the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia, and I think that by the year in our report we will surely present them in order to make the report even more complete, more comprehensive and give you the answers to all the questions you are asking. The fact is, however, that we've been doing a report like this for the second year in a row trying to achieve two things. First, to get a review, a full review of the state and movement of crime in the Republic of Croatia according to the data that we have at our disposal in the State Attorney's Office, as well as the state of struggle to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and the litigation of the state in that part. We have tried to look back through the text section on both of these observed categories, but also for those who are asking even more for the tables that are attached to this report to allow for further analyses to come to better and better quality conclusions, or perhaps the corrections of our views in this regard. I'm really glad that you are in the same way that we tried to answer these questions in the state's attorney's office and you came to these conclusions and in this regard I would refer to your comments, to the questions you asked the following. First of all, I really need to come from the constitutional and legal definition of the state's attorney's office as an independent and independent judicial body, so I don't count this other one. The only question that I personally have about the debate on annual reports is whether the State's Attorney General, whose head he himself was truly independent and independent in his work during the past period. I'm responsible for that. I responsibly claim that no one has ever influenced me in any case or decision on specific matters. In connection with the legal definition or the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, the law states, among other things, that in civil, civil and administrative matters, the State's Attorney General may, in particular, receive instructions from the Government of the Republic of Croatia when representing the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps this creates some false thinking that the State's Attorney's Office is indistinguishable in its work and therefore that these remarks by some of the MPs or advocates stand. I think that, at least I have to say my personal position, this kind of legal formulation that takes instructions from me is really clumsy and I agree that it can create confusion. Right now, there's been an amendment to the State's Attorney's Department Act. I think she has already come before the Croatian Parliament and in my proposal I have asked for such a legal definition that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is giving instructions to change that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can give an opinion to the State's Attorney's Office. I think it is a much better formulation and then does not question through the legal regulatory influence of the executive authority on the independent judiciary or the State Attorney's Office as part of that judicial authority. In addition, I wanted a few more things that are also important and are of general importance, which is the work of the State's Attorney's Office in criminal matters and urgency. We have indeed statistically achieved a really good update of the best so far, but of course there are objections and doubts about how all objects are solved in the way that they are statistically shown. That's right. That's what we emphasized in our report. But how could it not happen that in the State's Attorney's Office or how any of the times in public knowledge can be said, and even here, some of the cases remain in the drawer, I was in the report and stressed that for all cases older than 6 months, I've asked all the state's attorneys on the ground to make a list and with all these cases, of all these cases over 6 months in the State's Attorney's Office, we're taking care of them. So they're all under surveillance and no object after the inventory in the state's attorney's office can come out in the light of the day without someone answering for it. So the items in the drawers in the state's attorney's office are certainly gone. Of course, not all objects are and cannot be solved in the way that it is statistically shown here in these 3 months and so on and so on. But I'm talking about average indicators. One of the questions was when... Done? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does it mean that the case is solved within three months? This means that the case is resolved from the receipt of a criminal application in the State's Attorney's Office until one of the state's attorneys' decisions which have procedural significance and character, which means either the decision to dismiss the criminal application, the request to file an investigation to the competent court or to file an indictment or indictment. So that's what I'm talking about when I say that objects are solved in three months. And there are those standards I spoke of in accordance with the European Union. Working disputes, they were a lot of words. Working disputes are indeed 85% of all represented in the mass of civil-government cases, litigation cases of the State's Attorney's office. It is a number that is extremely large and indeed burdens the work of state attorneys of course and courts in the same way. Especially with the fact that most of the vast majority of these objects we know in advance, we have to lose because the basis for these lawsuits really exists in law, collective agreements and so on. The institution of the settlement introduced in the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, the Law on the Procedural Procedure, and so on really allows for the possibility of making a settlement. But, of course, the State's Attorney's Office can't make a deal unless there's financial resources behind it that could end some kind of dispute. Last year, we really got one significant amount of 200 million that we spent on making exactly a deal in labor disputes. And a significant part of those settlements is just compared to the cops as prosecutors and finished. This year, for your information, the number of work disputes as I have initially said it was more than halved and more in the report next year will certainly not be such a problem as it is now indicated. One more thing. There have been talks about how individual state attorneys do not have the same access to work on specific cases and that certain lawyers on the ground make different decisions in the same or similar things. It's perfectly permitted, or I'm allowing it to happen and that's inadmissible. We have taken significant steps in the State's Attorney's Office's system in this regard in order to have as high-quality interlinkages as possible between lower lawyers and senior state attorneys in particular in the control of the work on these attorneys. On 1 January next year, I decided to form under the State Attorney's Office a special Department of Oversight of Old and Experienced Deputys who would visit all lawyers on the ground and control concrete works in specific cases. In addition to what is important, we released this year a website of the State's Attorney's Office on which we provide transparent data, the ones we can give about our work and so on, but it is the most important of all that will come from the beginning of next year we will also get the website so that communication between the state's attorneys and monitoring their work and in concrete cases will be much more important and quality. War crimes. When I first spoke today about criminal cases of war crimes and what we did in so-called war crimes. I then did not say that, in relation to the cases previously conducted and qualified as war crimes, we applied the Law on General Forgiveness because indeed the Law on General Forgiveness cannot be applied to the crimes of war crimes or to anyone in the State's Attorney's Office has memorized it. I was talking about something else. That we have now made more critical of the analysis of certain specific cases from a certain distance and have found that we have overly or too broadly affected that crime zone and that there were not simply elements, the characteristics of the crimes of war crimes but crimes against the Republic of Croatia such as armed rebellion, the threat of territorial totality and so on. In this regard, we have applied after the requalification of the Law on General Forgiveness or the Law on Forgiveness. As for the crimes of war crimes committed during or after World War II, I must say that in addition to this report, I have a special report on nine hundred pages of all the state's attorneys that I have individually spoken about all the cases that have been recorded with them and which cases are being dealt with. As far as these cases are concerned, the state attorneys and the police are indeed in this period, and if it is not in the perception of neither the public nor you MPs have indeed tried you in the same way, the exact same and the war crime really has no other limitations except that whenever you find the perpetrator and bring him to court. We have indeed made a significant part of the work, and now in most of these cases we have hired the state archives of the Republic of Croatia to review archives, state archives in that particular part of it, trying to extract those facts in the light of the day, data that we do not have or which we have not available so that we can make appropriate decisions in all these cases. So these are the objects we're dealing with. I have noted the comments of individual parliamentary representatives on specific individual cases starting with "Itas", "Viktor Lenca", "Pakraca", "Lipica" and so on. And on these cases, I will give an answer to each of the parliamentary deputies in accordance with the law as I can and how the law allows. In relation to all these items, I can say that none of these items are in State's attorney's drawers. Itas was processed in Varazdin as far as I was informed. Victor Lenac is also being processed in both civil law and criminal law. Police have conducted and still prosecuted against the "Viktor Lenca" case, and compared to the civil-government part relating to mortgages on maritime goods and so on, the State's Attorney's Office has therefore initiated appropriate procedures to take down the mortgage and return the property to state property. As far as the Lipik Health-Recreation Centre is concerned, and this is a criminal processing process, and I believe that in a few days it will produce certain results after which things will be able to come public as much as we can. As regards the objections to the work of former counterpart Seks and the criminal application of Ankica Lepoj, it can be said that after a report from several months ago that I had here in the Croatian Parliament about conversion and privatisation, after asking Mr. Assembly MP, I looked at the subject of finding it in the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb. And indeed, there I found that immediately after the application of Ankica Lepoj or the complaint of work or some criminal behaviour was admitted to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia a few days after that was delivered to the Zagreb County Attorney's Office for Criminal Defence, the then SDK was hired by the Financial Police and '94. closed the case because there was no basis for action. One more thing I may have said at the beginning, and I don't think I missed it, I missed it saying, "I'm sorry," and I think it's very important. In 2001, the state's attorney's office carried out, thanks to the law passed by the Croatian Parliament, a major transformation that is still going on. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia established the merger of the former State Attorney's Office or the Public Prosecutor's Office with the former Public Prosecutor's Office. It's a big bite that neither the State's Attorney's Office nor the Public Attorney's Office has swallowed, but it's just that there's been a merger that I think we've been through very successfully and it's proven that the decision to merge these two state bodies, the judicial authorities, has proved to be very successful, because in this way, an interactive relationship between the two, the Criminal and the Civilian Department and one and the other departments are getting some values that they didn't have before. They support each other and use their knowledge and experience and thus work more effectively to prosecute crimes, or crime. But also on the protection of state property. But that's a problem that we in the state's attorney's office are dealing with in one way that you can't see in public, which you can't even see from our report, but believe me, we've invested a terrible amount of energy, and I think the results in that section are going to get better and better every year. In any case, if I didn't owe it because my time had already expired, I would thank you for your support for the work of the state's attorney's office, and also for the concrete remarks you've given us, and I am sure that the state's attorney's office in next year's report will show that another progress has been made in this year's work. But most importantly, something that may not be in this report, which is that the State's Attorney's Office is just one segment located, the judicial authorities, among the state authorities, primarily the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, etc. and on the other side of the courts. Just a good interactive relationship between the authorities of discovery, which is the Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration, etc. And the State's Attorney's Office, they can achieve the results as expected of us. And secondly, the priority of the development of USKOK as a specialised lawyership is the fundamental priority of the work of the state's attorneyship as a whole, and I think that in this year, and especially at the beginning of next year, USKOK will develop in the way that the legislator meant when it passed the law and that it will really be able to oppose organised crime, primarily organised crime, and then corruption. Because organized crime, regardless of what it is so far, is recorded in criminal charges to the extent that the perception is that it is present in any case deserves full attention and attention from the Ministry of the Interior and the State's Attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51053	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Dear Representative Frano Matušić on behalf of the HDZ club. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51054	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, Mr. President, after what we heard from Mr. Chief State Attorney, I think it's time for colleagues Stazic and SDP to apologize to you personally, Mr. President, because they called you for something that is not true. You've been called up for cover-up in the Lepey case and I think it's their turn to apologize after what we've heard from the attorney general about what he's done and how. And it is time to end with such misinformation and inaccuracies, untrues, especially when spoken in the institution, here specifically by the institution of the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51055	Everyone has a conscience about whether they want to apologize or not. I do not wish at all, dear colleague Matušić, to suggest to anyone, to any club or individual, to make a gesture that you have suggested, unless they themselves feel the need. On behalf of the SDP club, respected deputy president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51056	Please, Mr. President, dear colleagues. My colleague Stazic spoke for himself. He did not speak on behalf of the club, and in this regard, please do not call the club for a personal statement from the representative who spoke, and I agree with you, that there is a reason why my colleague Stazic should address the President of the Parliament in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-02-0.u51057	Thank you very much. I'm closing this part of the session. Continuing at 15.00 hours, we will vote on the points of the agenda Annual report on the work of state attorneys in 2004. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of state lawyers is hereby adopted in 2004. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 87 votes in favour, one abstention of the proposed conclusion.
